tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay, who wants to speak about parliamentary responsibility. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the month we are in is the month of the war, which is believed to be holy in all the divine original religions, and especially on the first ten nights of this month, they are truly blessed in all religions. The name "Muharrem" is a term that emphasizes the immunity of man with all the basic values and therefore a deep historical background. The most important meaning of this name is that as leaders of justice and freedom, the great prophets, who have carved deep traces into the memory of humanity, and who have fought epic battles for justice and freedom, even at the expense of the lives of all their family members. The most important thing that they have left us is that they have never failed in their responsibility for the problems of the world they live in. When we look at the geoculturel geography, which has such sacred teachings in particular today, I believe it is a necessity to understand the battle to its depth. For those who look at this geography, which these teachings desire to evolve, come face to face with reality, as though it were lawful for all human values to be taken underfoot. When we examine the yesterday of this land, we see how similar it is to today. It seems that there is no constant time wave of humanity in this physical universe, which has no static memory. If so, then taking seriously the demands of dynamic historical and social change and innovation should be the most important priority for politics as well. Let us know that both the earth and the sky are awake. Dear friends, even at such a historic stage, the meaning of combat is particularly focused on responsibility for us as parliamentarians with such a heavy social obligation that even the mountains are afraid of being burdened with. As witnesses to this phase of history, we, the parliamentarians, are at the beginning of a road. Like every road, there's an end to this road, but at the end of this road, there are no more than two choices waiting for us. We have to admit, at the end of this process, it's either the peace of conscience of doing its duty or the historical and social plague of not having done what we had promised. In the words of the Apostle, we must be hired without stealing the money. Mr. President, not one of us can deny that, as a society, we have critical problems that are facing immediate solutions. Because denial is the greatest mistake that locks the human mind, dulls its judgment, and kills its conscience. So being blind, deaf, and dumb to our problems will be the greatest evil that we can do to ourselves and to our offspring. Let us know that we will have the greatest share of every crime and sin that every problem has been solved by tomorrow. We must admit that any legal and constitutional flaw that does not end the brotherly quarrel, which does not satisfy society's sense of justice and equality, does not guarantee human rights, honor and freedoms will be our fault. I hope we don't fall into the misery of billing our nation for our own shortcomings. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it is expected that we, above all, are willing to be fair when we speak, to demonstrate the will to transform fundamental poles of teaching into a way of life, such as being fair to ourselves, not to leave justice to ourselves. It is my belief that the first step in creating a climate that makes each of us safe from the other's hand and tongue is to have a fair and confident idea and to have free and courageous hearts like the Husseins speak. As they know that the most holy war is to cry out the truth against the cruel authority, they believe that silence in the face of injustice is mute evil. In order not to be too late tomorrow, those hearts must speak at this time. Surely there is no good in that which we do not speak, nor in that which we do not listen. My friends, I would like to remind you that being sent to the People's Assembly has burdened us with a very heavy responsibility, and more importantly, that being chosen is essential to us, above all, to be distinguished by our words, thoughts, and actions. Let us not forget that the trust we bear is the honor of the nation. That honor will be fulfilled in our word, in our position and in our conduct. Then we must expect our reward only from our own conscience, and only from our own. We must never allow the House to become a satellite for certain personal, political, or political interests. Because it is the noblest, most conscientious obligation of all of us to wear his honor to this Parliament that he deserves never to be taken off again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May your Muharrem be meaningful. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Chorum MP Hurl Kose, who wants to talk about special authorities and long-term prisoners. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I took the word off the agenda for private courts and long-term detentions, but before that, I've been there this weekend, and I'd like to tell you a little bit about it. Exactly eighty-five years ago, on 26/11/1926, our country produced Turkish sugar for the first time, and today, unfortunately, it is being privatized and privatized on a condition that the courts have cancelled several times. The employees of the sugar factory, who say they've got the sugar discipline, invited us to the factory on sugar day, and we've gone, and we've seen, and we've actually seen, all of them with their eyes full of it, and they're saying that without this privatisation, both the factory workers and millions of farm workers, the farmer, the mover and the animal maker will be irretrievably damaged. I'd like to make a note of history here: please, consider this privatisation by the Council of Ministers, the concerned ministers, the Privatisation Administration. Sugar contributes more than $3 billion to the country's economy, and the person approaching 10 million is eating sugar bread. I'm not going to go any further, but this is on our agenda. We'll do it again later, we have important things to say about this. And again, my dear friends, this is very important, and if you listen carefully to this -- the Mayor of Çorum came from a public institution in 2009 to collect his salary as a member of the board of directors to the majority, their wages were foreclosured. For more than two years, the mayor's corruption in development and tenders has been a rumor. But on November 15th, a journalist in the local press ruled it out as a rumor and presented it to the public in an ambitious manner. For a while, the mayor, who had been distracting the public, had to explain that he had co-founded a concrete plant in Çorum, where he had come foreclosure in 2009. I don't blame our mayor here. The mayors are the city's sure, the most reliable people. I don't think it's supposed to be a bet, not even a rumor. I would like to ask the Ministry of Interior to send some of the inspectors who work almost as a paid officer at the gates of Republican People's Party municipalities to Çorum Municipality to find out what's going on in Chorum City. I want this one in particular. My dear friends, the law will be needed one day. This is a very important and historical statement. If we look at the issue from the legal window alone, we must all say that special courts for the existence of the state of law and the rule of law must be removed immediately and without further name or appearance. The extraordinary courts, which were introduced as enforcers of the power of coup or extraordinary times, have today become common courts for our country, due to a change in Article 250 of the Penal Code of the CMY in 2005. We've all been watching as a whole society, maybe some of us don't understand it yet, or we're just ignoring it, but in these courts, it's only been used as a condition for the arrest. We're all watching this, but some of us don't understand. In fact, arrests, which have been carried out before the conditions were created, have become the execution of the sentence, and as the trials begin, they are actually over. And again, my friends, we're all watching it together, but some of us just ignore it because it's not working for us right now. In the trials held in these courts, our intellectuals, journalists, patriot soldiers, who have not committed to power or international power centers, who love only their homes, who love their people, who defend our national interests, are being wrongly executed, by the long imprisonment of the 2000s. Today in the Republic of Turkey, the future of the Republic of Turkey is unfortunately...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0005par0037	Mr. Köse, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0004par0038	I want another minute, I'll keep going. My dear friends, ten days before I ended my vows... Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0006par0041	Mr. Köse, you know we don't have that kind of practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0004par0043	In the end, no matter what political ideology he voted for, his grandparents had been wronged in the past...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0006par0044	Mr. Köse, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0004par0045	...deprived, orphaned, who have been wronged themselves today, and in the future, if we don't stop, I salute all our people, all our citizens, all our children, their grandchildren, who will be wronged. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you, Mr. Köse. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Tokat MP Reşat Beşat, who wants to talk about the issues of Tokat Province and its districts. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0007par0053	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of Tokat Province and its districts. I salute the High Council. Tokat Province is one of the most beautiful provinces of the Central Anatolian region. From 2007 on, I'm taking the word off the agenda every year to address the problems of our province. Thank you all for hearing us and for taking the necessary precautions. However, as I say every year, the slap is losing its population, losing blood. In recent TÜİK research and reports, unfortunately, the province of Tokat is the head of the cities that migrated in our country. Five years ago, the population of the 800,000s fell to the 600,000s, and from the 7 MPs to the 5th legislatures. One of the main reasons is unemployment, poverty, and poverty. People who work in agriculture suffer. The price of diesel, medicine, fertilizer, is too high to bear. Besides, the price of products does not cover the cost, and the peasant gives up farming. A quick migration has begun in all the districts of Tokat Province, in their village. Istanbul is migrating to major cities every day, especially in the middle of the day, where people leave the land of the ancestors and go into false hands. However, during each three periods of the AKP's ruling power in the province of Tokat, he raised the vote and trusted it. Therefore, he also wants to resolve matters related to the province of Tokat immediately and to end the migration. In a slap, farmers, animal producers and merchants are in a very difficult situation. Like throughout the country, diesel, fertilizer pharmaceutical prices must be reduced, and farmers must be supported in real sense. Even though the animal manufacturer was hard to produce, unfortunately, he couldn't assess its production. Animal imports must be abandoned, and the manufacturer must be supported in real sense. Members of parliament have closed down the small business shop in Tokat. The laws of supermarkets must be immediately enforced in favor of the small tradesman, and these people must be saved from unemployment. Investigative work for young unemployed women such as street workshops, led by Niksar and Erbaa municipalities, should be done and supported all over the province of Tokat. There's a heavy traffic problem on the main roads at the slap center. The freeway must be immediately finished, and the city's main roads must be divided into routes and arrivals. The roads linking Tokat, Niksar-Tokat, Niksar and Reshadiya to the province of the Army, Zile-Sungurlu, Erbaa-Amasya roads have not been finished for many years, they must be finished immediately. Not all the hospitals in the centre should be closed, the former Recep Yazıoğlu Hospital must be reopened as a full hospital, and the dental hospital must be finished immediately. With the recent economic crisis, many businesses have been closed in Tokat. Our province, which is the third district in the incentive application ranking, is in the same group as the cities with land, sea and air travel. In addition, investors do not show the necessary interest in our province, which is not covered by high incentives and very high incentives. In addition, the Tokat Airport is facing closure. Since Istanbul is not connected, major investors do not come to Tokat. The infrastructure of small industrial sites such as Niksar, Turhal, Zile, organised industries should be completed and opened to investments. Like many parts of our country, the incentive system must be changed immediately for the slap. Our great immigration province, I think it should take its place in the incentive system. The Slap Cigarette Factory has been sold and closed. The Turhal Sugar Factory must not have the same fate. Let's not shut down the Turhal Sugar Factory. Let's investigate and find a new system to keep it open, active. The Turhal Sugar Factory must be transferred from privatisation to either be removed or open to the Slappers, on the run. Our province is in a region rich in culture, tourism. The slap centre, the Danish capital, Niksar, Sulusaray Sebastapolis, the Bazaar Ballica Cave, Zile Castle, must be well assessed, put into the incentive system. Tokat Gaziosmanpaşa University should be given special attention, school should be raised and students will be given new opportunities. There are many problems with HES projects in the slap. THE HESEs, founded on rivers, are corrupting the environment, leaving the farmer a victim. This topic is at the top of some very important issues that need to be investigated with broad participation. In addition, the province of Tokat is in a severe earthquake belt. The North Anatolian fault line runs through here. Since there have been severe earthquakes in past history, all settlements, especially the official buildings, should be processed, and the earthquake measures must be taken immediately. In the building, the licenses from the municipalities must be made easy, and in the end the Tokat will be taken care of, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0008par0070	Mr. Right, thank you. Mr. Öğüt and Mr. Light, you have your vows, but the 59th article of the Civil Code promises to three people outside of the day. I can't give it to him. Only Mr. Group Vice Presidents, Mr. Vural, will I promise Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0009par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, because of his surgery on the Prime Minister, we wish the National Movement Party Group an immediate recovery, and we wish the AKP Group well. We wish the Prime Minister to come to us as soon as possible with his health. Of course, on this occasion, we're getting news from the newspapers, but if a minister or deputy prime minister gives the Parliament any information about this operation, I think the Turkish Grand National Assembly has a right to direct information. In such an environment, I appeal to the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0010par0079	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0011par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. We have proposed that eight MPs in parliament are still under arrest, especially in connection with the length of their long imprisonment, since private courts have been extraordinary jurisdictions and have been highly debated on the public conscience since its implementation. I think this should be put on the council's urgent agenda and resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0012par0085	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The president's office has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and submit to your knowledge. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interest: Prime Ministership 22/11/2011 and B. 02. 0. PPG. 0. Article 12-300-02/11349. Public Watch, Accounting and Control Standards Institution, established under Law 660, has been subject to the Prime Minister's proposal under Article 19/A of Law 27/9/1984 and under Article 3046. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We have 134 clubs in the Turkish professional football leagues. 18 in the Turkish Super League, Bank Asia 1. We have 18 football teams in the league, 45 in the Second Turkey League and 53 in the Third Turkey League. Much of the winnings from the Turkish Football Federation's broadcast tender are earmarked to Turkish Super League clubs. Our clubs in Asia, the Second and Third League are given very little. In addition, our Super League teams have substantial sponsorship agreements and advertising revenues, but our clubs in other leagues have very limited income. On the other hand, a very important portion of the proceeds from sports-tototo games is still being divided into major league clubs. In addition, in amateur clusters, a significant number of our clubs struggle through poverty. Although many of our cities in our country have the most important social activity, the chances of our clubs living and fighting in leagues are gone because we do not have enough resources in our cities. The fact that each of our provinces has a different economic structure reflects on our clubs in Turkey's football leagues in a different size. In particular, only 7 per cent of the proceeds from sports-Toto games are distributed to our clubs, while 85 per cent are blocked mainly by taxes. In Turkey, the tools and equipment needs of our teams, especially in the amateur leagues, must be met, and the facilities of our teams in every amateur field in particular must be renovated. In addition, our second and third league clubs, which have huge problems in terms of resources, should be supported by different coefficients by Sports-Toto again. The Constitution is 98th in particular in order to assess the economic and financial autonomy of our clubs fighting in Turkish football leagues. Article 104 of the Civil Charter. And 105. I respectfully submit to the opening of a Parliamentary Research under the terms of the articles. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 2) Deliberate From the Heart [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[Tunceli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 9) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 14) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] 16) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 19) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 25) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Master educators at Public Education Centres of the Office of Apprentice, the Office of Pre-School General, the General Directorate of Trade and Tourism, institutions and institutions under the General Directorate of Trade and Tourism, for additional tuition fees, Computers, Clothes, Machine Nails, Handcrafts, Hairworks, Motherhood, and so on. They provide practical vocational training in majors. There are nearly 20,000 expert educators at around 20,000 Public Education Centres throughout Turkey, nearly 20,000 in pre-school education, and about 10,000 in the General Directorate for Trade and Tourism. Due to the need of teachers at the General Education Institutions, the Council of Ministers' decision issued in accordance with Article 89 of State Officers Act 16,12,2006 and 26378, which has been published in the official newspaper and has been carried out by the Council of Ministers, supplemental to the teaching and additional hours of teachers and executives, without a teaching staff. According to the clause, they are employed as temporary personnel. The gross salary paid by the master instructor is paid by one day based on a 7.5-hour study at the level of minimum wage. Therefore, the average salary of a master instructor for eight months is official holidays, holidays and so on. Because of the cuts in the days, their salary is not only below the minimum wage level, but the SEC bonus is not deposited for more than 30 days per month. While staffed Master Teachers of the same establishment take advantage of all the rights that are recognised by law number 657, the lack of social security of paid persons is causing separation among employees who are not fully and explicitly described in any security system. Every degree of knitting and widespread educational institutions under the ministry can be commissioned to teach for a course year not to exceed 10 months in order to meet the need for teachers. However, under the initiatives of the People's Education Centres, under the initiatives of non-profit teachers, in some provinces for six or eight months and in some provinces for 10 or 11 months, they are appointed between 15 hours a week or 30 hours a week. This unfair distribution causes inequality both in wages and in the SSC terms and in the number of days. For years without a staff assignment, paid master educators have only served as public servants in accordance with regulations. The successful work of trained, experienced workers as People's Educators is unappreciated. The importance of adult education, vocational education, and all courses for this purpose is increasing day by day. The social, cultural and vocational training centres have not been fully implemented, and the social security of employees has been ignored and their victims have continued. 1 - Master educators are worried about whether or not to take part every year in institutions where they have worked for years, without job security. 2- The flexible expressions used in regulations and directives lead managers to use initiative in assignments and to rely on the pleasure of deployment. 3- The modular program system set for implementation this semester is being exposed to the barriers of managers who cannot absorb, adapt to innovations, cannot comprehend new programmes, and are being prevented from taking part in the work of master educators. 4- Adult education is currently covered by an insurance employee at an average 80% of the education centre. In institutions that have been given full days and full years of training, courses are both late-opening and closing early due to lack of funds, and are causing adult education to fail to act in line with the purpose and scope. The importance and necessity of life-long education is increasing day by day, and their important service is sadly met by workers who have not been given social and autonomy rights. 5- The Master can't get unemployment insurance from teachers when they're not working because unemployment premiums aren't cut. 6- And most importantly, the rights to pension retired employees, who have not been given the right to pay back-paid bonuses, by themselves or by the ministry, have been denied. With all due respect, I would like to investigate the problems of the expert educators mentioned in the matter above, as well as the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and 105 of the Turkish Parliamentary Charter of the Grand National Assembly. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tunceli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Adıyaman]] 13) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] 17) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 18) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 19) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 23) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Because of the protection of ecological balances, an important element in balancing climates, and the ability of humanity to store food, the protection of the seas from all pollution has become the most important subject of our geography. In this burden of pollution, there is a significant share of the pollution caused by ships. Turkey is one of the most important transit areas in the world in terms of sea transport. The annual control of the Sea of Marmara proves that pollution is increasing. The pollution that grows in the Sea of Marmara is also effective on the shores of Tekirdağ. Regular analysis by the City Health Department also found a level of pollution that threatens human health. It also causes contamination, especially in Tekirdağ, when the waters that are being purified are again put back into the sea, and the materials that will pollutate the sea, such as detergent waste and fertilizer. These substances, which have changed after reaching the sea, pose a great danger to our citizens when they go into the sea. Entering the sea on several beaches in the region, particularly Tekirdağ, is a major risk to the health of the locals. In some areas, pollution has been found to be much greater. In particular, the districts of Honourable Creek, Kumbagian Agriculture Ministry and military camps, Barbaros Toptree People's Beach, Altinova, Değirmendan Six People's Beach, Salat Oil Factory Pine Beach, Sara Kastro People's Beach, Marmaeregisi Foundation and Sharköy's Eriklic village have been declared to be far above the essential values of microbiological pollution on the public beach. The pollution found in the sea water also brings a large number of diseases. Citizens who enter the sea on unclean beaches are exposed to many infections, such as coli basli, cholera, typhoid, jaundice, diesel, if they swallow dirty water. The pollution seen on the shores of Tekirdağ does not only affect the people of the region who enter the sea. As domestic, urban and industrial waste reach the sea, the habitat on the sea floor will destabilise, causing a single flat plant environment. In the middle and long term, the diversity of plants at the bottom of the sea will also disappear. The extinction of plant diversity will also increase oxygen at the bottom of the sea, and it will negatively affect the habitat of fish. Our fishermen will be affected by the fact that they've won most of their bread from the sea. If no measures are taken, our seas will face greater environmental risks every day, causing the number of Blue Flags on our shores to decrease. Such environmental problems will also affect our ability to benefit from the seas in many areas - health, food, sociocultural, tourism, and economics. Given the above issues, the Constitution is 98th in order to determine the factors causing pollution on the shores of Tekirdağ, to find permanent solutions, and to make necessary efforts to preserve diversity at the bottom of the sea. And the 104th edition of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Civil Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Tekirdağ]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Eskişehir]] 6) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] 11) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 12) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 13) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 15) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Adıyaman]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] It has been presented to you. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Now, since the gene I'm going to read is more than 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the Journal of Tutorak. (x) The full text of the Gensoru motion is added to the Journal of Tutorak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The motion on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on opening the geneor under 99th and 106th Articles of the Constitution on Vice Prime Minister Besir Atalay was issued on November 22, 2011, and was scheduled to be held on November 25, 2011 by AKP Group Proposal. The reason and result relations, such as Van earthquake, would make it impossible for society to receive direct information on a matter that concerns our citizens, while using a majority party of geneor talks, which is one of the most important tools given by our constitution to the TBMM, by the majority party, by a single will, to discuss another gene and to ensure that the public's work will not be evaluated enough about the genesor on the same day, while the public will not be able to assess it at a time when there will be no TRT broadcast. This motion, which we withdraw, has been restored to provide these grounds. In the wake of devastating earthquakes in our Van province, in the failure of public resources and capabilities to provide adequate efficiency and coordination for the citizens of our nation's aid, in the delivery and management of public executives related to the earthquake, in the conflicting comments and statements of public officials about the earthquake and the consequences, in the development of confusion and the failure of the security of our citizens in the area of the earthquake, in particular in order to ensure that the loss of our citizens and the loss of their lives by the second earthquake be delivered to the citizens, and in the absence of political responsibility of the loss of the Van earthquake, in the wake of the Van earthquake, and in connection with the emergency of the Prime Minister of Emergency Management, we propose that the Constitution be treated as a result of the Constitutional and in respect of the 10th Amendment to the 10 points of the Constitutional Committee and in respect of the loss of the Constitutional Committee. On October 23rd and November 9, 2011, in the quakes in Van, 644 of our citizens lost their lives, thousands of our citizens were injured, buildings were destroyed, our people were left homeless. The events and developments after the Van earthquake increased the cost. "There has been a failure for the first 24 hours," the prime minister said, referring to the difficulties caused by the first earthquake in Van. After the earthquake, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar said, "As of today, Van and Ercish are the most reliable at the angle of the earthquake." In the second earthquake following the declaration that "prelimal damage studies have been completed at 95 per cent, that the main goal of preliminary damage detection is to identify heavily damaged buildings and houses, which cannot be entered, to determine the need for tents," people have lost their lives this time following the collapse of homes and accommodation facilities. On October 26, 2011, the governor of Van said on TV: "Look, all the hotels in the city are occupied. We can't find a place. The press from out of town, usually due to the earthquake, stays with research rescue teams. They have no worries. They enter buildings and live in 7-8-story hotels." Two weeks after their announcements, the "7-8 stories" hotels mentioned by the governor were destroyed as a result of a 5.6-year-old earthquake, and 40 of our citizens were killed. In the Van earthquake, there have been inadequacies in the supply of tents needed for temporary housing, lack of coordination in distribution of benefits. The gaps in the distribution of these benefits are still not provided to the needy, as is the agenda of the media and the citizen. Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay has admitted that search and rescue teams have been held to see our own potential. Mr. Atalay at the TBMM said, "At this time, the homes of the people are not available because it is colder there. He said, "The house of the governor will not be used here, but he was later seen in this region that his homes were established and that the President visited them. The second earthquake occurred on November 9, 2011, after the report of the Van Earthquake, released by AFAD, November 3, and November 5, 2011, when the Van Earthquake Reports said that preliminary damage detection had been completed, and the homes and hotels were destroyed and lost. Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar said on November 15, 2011, "We didn't tell those buildings to go in, we didn't say don't go in." That's what he said. "We, of course, will run the legal process here. No matter who it is, whether it's from the university community or the AFAD, we'll start the legal process on these things, whoever gave you something that could be sitting here." "For those who have been neglected, there will be an administrative and criminal account." In addition to the fact that the Prime Minister's statement should, in fact, be carried out by prosecutors on their own terms, it must be completed politically, as well as by Mr. Prime Minister's decision to ask for an account from those responsible. In this regard, it is the duty of democracy and law to answer to those who have parallel political responsibility for the legal process that preceded the Van earthquake. 61. In the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay is in charge of the "President of Disaster and Emergency Management." Clearly, the deputy prime minister in charge of disaster and emergency and coordination in the Van earthquake has political responsibility. We've been asked to renew the motion to ask for a meeting at a time that would limit the ability of our citizens to obtain information by the majority of the genesis we've given earlier. In the wake of devastating earthquakes in our Van province, the public's ability and ability to provide adequate efficiency and coordination in providing our nation's aid to citizens, the public administration of the earthquake and administration of public officials is responsible for the political responsibility of the earthquake and the conflicting interpretation and testimony of public officials regarding the results of the earthquake, the reduction of the confidence of our citizens in the area of the earthquake, especially in the loss of their lives by the second earthquake, and in the loss of the loss of our nation due to the loss of their lives, and due to the political responsibility of the Van earthquake and the emergency of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Afet and Deputy Prime Minister of Emergency, the Constitution has been cited as a result of the 10th Amendment and 10th Amendment to the Constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The meeting date of the motion will be determined later and put to your votes. There's a motion to resign from the commission, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to submit my resignation as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, Diyarbakır 5. The Supreme Criminal Court's 18/11/2011 writing 2011/111049-2 has been reported as to the second joke of Article 83 of the Constitution. It's for your information. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday (29/11/2011) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 22 November 2011, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan and Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends (193 rows), in 1937-1938, in order to investigate all aspects of the Tedip and Tenkil practices today, which were given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, it was suggested that it be read in the same joint session on Tuesday (29/11/2011/11) and to be presented before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal in favour of Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0013par0331	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today's busy agenda, Dersim. My lesson continues to debate, but despite the ongoing debates, a healthy step cannot be taken. Our proposal for research is in the year 37-38, about the discipline and the tencillary practices of Dersim. In this motion of ours, especially with the description of what happened there, from the memory of Ihsan Sabri Çağlangil. From the memory of General Muhsin Batur. And from the poets of that time to the intellectuals, this is what we propose today. Now, we'd like to make it clear as BDP that Mr. Prime Minister is in distress right now. Although it may seem like the first time, some steps have to be taken to determine the meaning of the verbal apology and to produce the result, and in the past period and in this period as the Peace and Democracy Party, we have offered the Parliament a proposal for research and law on many issues. First of all, I want to point out that in these situations, it's obvious what's done in the world in the face of such painful events -- the past is faced, the truth commissions are set up, the research commissions are set up, and parliaments make decisions. These councils' decisions are permanent. The Prime Minister's remarks at the mayor's meeting only apply to the press because when we look at examples of apology in the world, we see very different things. The United States apologized to the natives in 2010, apologized to the Aborigines in 2008, apologized to the Dutch Jews, gypsies and Indonesians in 2000, apologized to the Canadian Indians in '98, apologised to Russian leader Boris Yeltsin 43-44, apologized to the exile of Chechn, İngush and Tatar in 1993, apologised to the regime of the Republic of South Africa, the British Queen II. Elizabeth has an apology, and in the 70s, Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany -- the social democrat leader -- has to kneel down and apologize for the Jews who were killed in the Warsaw ghetto. Now, in the face of all these facts, I'd like to make it clear to you, Mr. Prime Minister, that our group has a question motion, and I'd like to draw your attention to it. Here, the Prime Minister is being asked for compensation and criticism and is asked to be answered by international agreements. These laws are required to report the burial sites of the executed people and how many people have been killed... The Prime Minister is transferring this to the Justice Department. The Minister of Justice's answer is truly embarrassing. What's he saying? We've taken this, and we've studied it, and we've studied it -- there's a text of the Ministry of Justice -- I can give it to friends who want it, we can give it to them, we've looked into it. Now, this is the answer of the government, the Minister of the Prime Minister, and it says, "You can get all the information you want according to the Information Act. Take it, friends, and perhaps someone will tell you the location of Seyit Reza's friends' graves. Look, one more question motion was given at that time by our Tunceli MP, Şerafettin Halis. He's being asked about burial sites, and he's being transferred to the Ministry of Justice again. If you read the answer, it's sad. We asked the District Attorney's office, we asked the health department, we asked his municipality -- history, numbers -- we asked the Tunceli governor's office, unfortunately, they said they didn't know where Seyit Reza and his friends were buried, so come on... the archives of the General Staff, the depths of the State, everything is documented. Now, the Minister of Justice says that, and his Prime Minister apologizes. Now, that answer was given in 2008. Look, again, we've proposed the law about my class. We're here to tell you why the name of my class should be returned? Because the name of an Ottoman province has historical meaning, and we want the return of the old name, which was proposed by Interior Minister Şükru Kaya at that time, on November 7, 1935. That's our motion in the House. He downloads the motion you requested in 24 hours and passes in 24 hours. ▪ Do what is necessary. We call it. Again, we have a motion to investigate the burial sites of Seyit Reza and his friends, Sheikh Saidin and Saidi Nursiya. This one's right here in the House, folks. We have a motion to investigate learned missing girls, which stands in the House, and on top of all of that, the statements from human rights agencies say, "I'm sorry about this." They say, "I'm sorry about this." And they sort it out -- let the grave be shown -- what's to be done -- what's to be done -- let the name of my class be returned, let the apology be returned, other names -- that, of course, made our Parliament president of Cindoruk here. Yes, their roots come from the single party period, and Celal Bayar and the late Menderes served in the CHP at that time. For him, the AKP and CHP, which came from two roots, are responsible for this in the past. I mean, nobody gets away with it. Again, there are very clear demands here regarding the visit of the Association of Class Associations. The burial places again, the extradition of the name of Dersim. Here are the names of some airports to be returned to the names of the massacrers, and the Speaker of Parliament says, "Curk, now: a parliamentary investigation can be opened on this matter. Now, when we put all this together, our number isn't enough for this Council inquiry motion. You've always rejected all this in the past. Now, the Prime Minister has something to do. If he wants to take a step forward on this, he can now turn it into a written text, bring it to the House, make an apology as a Parliamentary decision, but in order to do so, a research commission must be set up in advance. This research commission is intended for us to be established as a commission of facts, in fact, to include all other painful events, and I believe that if the Parliament puts a will into these discussions today to set up this research commission, I believe that apology means something, meaning something, and then the road opens up and walks. If you don't, I'll avoid it with an apology, with a word. If we say it again, it'll be wrong here. Therefore, I'd like to request the approval of our research proposal. Yours truly.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0014par0345	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Bronzeç, Bartın MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0015par0349	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. The BDP group proposal demands that the General Assembly be brought to its agenda today for the investigation of the class events of 37-38. Dear MPs, my class is one of the most painful, tragic events in our recent history. My lesson is a disaster that awaits enlightenment, a daring interrogation. Speaking at democratic opening talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey General Assembly in 2009, while criticizing the National Union and Brotherhood Project of the Republican People's Party at the time, didn't the mothers cry during the class uprising? The debate on the case of my class has recently been re-opened by the statement of Mr. Hüseyin Aygün. Interviews in the newspapers of Mr. Aygün have sparked public discussion of the issue with the President, his request for an appointment to investigate the matter, and his talks with political party groups. Mr. Aygün also requested a meeting from the AK PARTY Group, and in the meeting on behalf of the group government, Seyid Rezat, the grandson of the class incident, was also present at Yasar Kaya, the chairman of the Association of Dersim Associations. During our talks with the delegation, a report, such as the establishment of a research commission in parliament to investigate the events of Dersim, the detection of burial sites, the opening of archives, the introduction of the State Board of Control, the identification of the adopted ones, was also presented. In the conclusion of the report submitted by the President of the Association of Dersim Associations to our side, an opinion has also been expressed that CHP must accept its role in the massacre. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a strong decision on political taboos, historical taboos, and unquestionable issues since the establishment of the EC PARTI and the day it came to power. Nothing's covered up in the AK PARTY Authority, which believes that those who can't face their history, their dark points in history, and those who can't face them, can't build a good future. Because the AK PARTY believes that the growth of this country, the strengthening of this country, the world being one of the biggest obstacles to being one of the leading countries, is that it cannot face pasts, historys, taboos, fears, unsolveds. For him, in our nine-year mandate, rejection policies, particularly the southeast issue, have been eliminated, denial policies, assimilation policies are almost zeroed out. At last week's meeting of the presidents of the EC PARTI districts, the Prime Minister stated that it was not right to conduct current political polemics over the Dersim massacre, and that there were a number of research written on the course events, and that the Prime Minister's archives were open for those who wanted to do research on the subject. In his speech, Mr. Prime Minister has made it very clear and clear that the cause of the incident is that he has made it clear to us who are responsible and who are the victims of the incident, with his documents, with his evidence, without any discussion. In his speech, Mr. Prime Minister presented examples from the book of the late Necip Fazil Shorturek, which was published in 1969, about the dark pages in our recent history, of the late Necip Fazil Süçükrek, which he described in various dates the reports on Dersim. He explained the laws that were made concerning Dersim, the instructions given by those responsible for the period, the decisions of the Council of Ministers, and the relevant documents. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are documents of thousands of people, women and children, murdered, destroyed, thousands of people migrated west, thousands of girls adopted. Without being disturbed by these documents, no one should avoid facing these events, which are clearly responsible for the documents. Now everyone knows who are responsible for these dark events, who were involved in the massacre. We see that these individuals, unfortunately, have even been named in parks by some municipalities. It's not the AK PARTY that will face the disaster of my class, it's not the AK PARTY government, it's the ones who are in power at the time of the disaster itself. The BDP's group proposal was on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Demanding that the research motion be addressed immediately on today's agenda is intended to disrupt talks on issues that are on the agenda of the General Assembly today. This is an important issue. Of course, the enlightenment of these dark events is necessary to face history. This is a human rights issue. The Turkish Parliament's residency commission on human rights is the Parliamentary Human Rights Review Commission. It would be much more appropriate for our lawmakers, who have broad authority over this issue, who are experts in human rights, to conduct a study of the occupational commission, whose powers are broad and not limited for any period of time. That's why the BDP says I'm against the group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0016par0360	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for the group's proposal to speak in favour of Kamer Genç, Tunceli MP. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0017par0364	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. During the operation of 1937 and 1938, his former name was Dersim, then Tunceli in 1936, and in that case, I ask the security forces who lost their lives to the people of the region to have God's mercy, and may their place be in heaven. My dear friends, this job is a tragedy. There have been incidents in the past, seventy-three years ago. Keeping these events on the agenda won't do anyone any good. Then something happened here because of the weakness of the people who run the state, because of some adversity, and because of some of the geographical structures of the locals. Now, first of all, let me say that they call me the rebel. There's no rebellion here then, fellas. He'll have a leader of the rebellion and a purpose to make it possible for him to rebel. Now, in 1937 and 38 cases, there is no purpose in Tunceli, or in Dersim, so there is no movement there, there is no state-building thing that requires rebellion, there is no basis for bringing the law, there is no purpose at all. There must be a leader in this rebellion. Now, there's a friend of ours, Mr. Riza. There's a person there. This person, then there are ninety-one tribes in Tucson, president of a tribe of ninety-one tribes. So, in that sense, Syed Reza is not the leader of the clans of my class, nor is he the leader of my class. So, now, it's always being derailed because of the pollution of information, because of the lack of healthy information. I proposed a law in 2010. I said, it's a very painful thing. Come on, let's make up for the losses of people who lost their lives in the events that took place in 1937 and 38, who were hanged, who immigrated from their graves. Let's make a law, and let's make it up to them. I proposed this law in 2010. After that, the Great National Assembly of Turkey will pay for the losses of those damaged people. Therefore, by accepting such a law due to this tragic incident, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has tried to shoot Kemal Kildaroğlu, who has not been able to fight legitimate means in this matter, especially after Mr Kemal Kildaroglu came to the Republican People's Party's Presidency. Now, Recep Erdogan says: "Explain your faith and tribe." In Article 24 of the Constitution: "No one can be forced to explain their beliefs." Did anyone ever tell Erdogan to explain his faith, his descendants? He didn't. So... Second thing: AKP has a goal. Unfortunately, they're uncomfortable with the republic's institutions, the republic. Of course, they want to destroy Ataturk. What do you have to do to bring this down? In 1937, 1938, there was, of course, one party. At the only party, it was President Ataturk, and Ismet Inönun. Then Ismet Inönun was removed, and Celal Bayar did it. The greatest violence, the greatest killings, is at 38. Now he's trying to account for them, by bringing them to account with the founding of the Republic, Mr. Recep Tayyip and the Republic, as if, I mean, the people of that time, these foreigners, the French, the Italians, the British, the Greeks, and the independence of this country, are going after some accounts to avenge them as if it were a crime. Now, the man who is brave must be a man of his word. The AKP MP just said: "Sir, it's clear who was involved in the massacres. The prime minister's archives are also open. And my friends, what's the motion? Let's set up a commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, make it official, let this Commission go and search everywhere. In fact, what action took place in 38 ▪? What was the condition of the Tucsonite in 38? Why did this military action begin? How many people were killed in this military operation? Who's responsible for this? Let's explain these. Is there anything more natural, more reasonable? There's no need to make excuses now. Mr. Recep is coming out, and he says, "If you're going to apologize, I'm going to apologize." Yeah, but apologizing doesn't mean anything. Let's look into it first, maybe there's nothing to apologize for, maybe there isn't, right? I mean, what are you getting at, memorizing a study first? Our friends have made a perfectly valid motion. Guys, I mean, there's no reason to miss this. It's a great tragedy, a great number of people are dead, children are killed, women are killed, people are killed unjustly. Now, there's a statement from Ihsan Sabri Çalingil. İhsan Sabri Çağlangil says that one day the Chief of Police called me, he said: "Go to Elazığ, Harputa, sir, to Elaturk on Monday, when he goes to Elazığ, white pants will come, they will ask for Ataturk. Seyit Reza will forgive Ataturk." Now, after that, I went to ask him on Saturday, and the prosecutor didn't set up the trial. After that, he said, "I won't set up the court." He got the report, we got the deputy D.A. After that, the judge refused, and then we convinced the judge, and then Saturday, we set up Sunday court and convicted Seyit Reza and seven others, he says. Now, fellas, who's the real culprit in this? Chief Constable and Ihsan Sabri Çağalangil. I mean, did anyone here ever tell him that you should go, and then...... he's the one who's confessing to himself. Friends, now, did you really use poison gas in Tunceli, or not? Now, according to the newspapers of this Ihsan Sabri Çağlangil, there is something like this in his statement. Let's look into that. Friends, look, this state is our state, and these security forces are our security forces, these people are our people. If so, let's deal with it, but from what I've seen, this Ihsan Sabri was an enemy of Ataturk and an enemy of the Innu. Let's take that into account. Also, Ihsan Sabri Çağlangil did the State Department in this country, brought a daughter of his own, gave her to an Iranian. Iranian trucks passed through Turkey for five years for free. I know these things. Friends, I mean, look, I'm the MP in that area, I'm the biggest pain in the world, some people every day, but I want this to be settled, people, because in many places, these are the issues that come up. These new-growing young men, these massacres have been done to us in our past, such men are killed, children are burned, women are killed, a cure... And I want our young people to grow up with newer goals from now on, so they can forget about that past. There's also a way to forget, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in its own name, in its own magnificence... let's first accept this motion for research, and then, in this research proposal, we'll identify whoever is the victim, and then we'll do it with a law on these findings. There's no other way. Oh, someone wants to use it as a political cause, keep it on the agenda. Friends, I mean, there are some things that are above politics now. So the unity and integrity of this country, the unity and integrity of this country. Now, foreigners have come, and you have used gas to kill 37 PKK people in Çukurca. They say to you. Well, then, when there's some movement in a country now, the people who run that state are bound to prevent illegal activity, of course. So now we're going to make those people guilty because someone stopped them from doing anything illegal? We won't. If we're gonna do it, we're gonna do it all. I mean, for him, the steps, the rhetoric, it's really dangerous. My hometown, the old name of Ders, the new name of Tunceli, has been a serious event here. So my, you know, my husband's grandfather, unfortunately, brought in a commander there after the movement was finished, and he cut it off. I mean, we know all this, but there's a lot of tribal fighting going on here. And they brought them and paid the captains there, and they wrongfully killed some people. I mean, that's a lot of violence. There's no law, there's no law, there's been a series of events that depend entirely on the pleasure of the people there. Well, now, it's been seventy-four years, from whom, what are we going to answer to, folks? There's no one there. Now, the Republican People's Party is the only party. Any other parties? Weren't your fathers and grandfathers in the CHP, friends? It was one party. Adnan Menderes was then an inspector of the CHP, Prime Minister of Celal Bayar. Now, then the party was formed. So there's only one party. So bringing this and connecting it to CHP is of no use to anyone. So let's figure this out with reason and reason. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0018par0383	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mehmet Metiner, MP of Adıyaman, has asked for a statement against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0387	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the proposal of the Party for Peace and Democracy. I salute your high council. We can talk, we can talk, we can talk, we can talk, we can talk. That includes historical events. After all, we all have to face our pasts, a necessity in every sense. History is too important to be left to historians, but on one hand you'll say, "There's been a great deal of violence." On the other hand, you'll say, "How do you know that violence has been committed?" It's called a contradiction, to say the least.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0020par0389	Don't get me wrong, that's not what I'm saying.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0390	What's in my class? So, it's not specifically about discussing the lesson, of course, the historical confrontation is one thing, but since it's about my class, then we have to go back to history to know what's going on, starting with the Shark Islamic Plan. We need to start by looking at the reports that our Prime Minister sent us. My lesson has been subject to an act of caution and caution. We need to be very clear about this. This is an operation related to the modernisation policies of our state-owned state of the Republic of Turkey, an operation linked to rejection, denial and assimilation policies. When we reread the Shark Islahat Plan, when we reread the Hamdi Bey Report, in 1931, when we read the reports of Chief of Staff Fevzi Çakmak. There's been a riot in my class. Friends, there was no rebellion in my class. The lecturers did not rebel against the state of the Republic of Turkey with a Kurdish-based understanding. We need to talk this out loud and clear. If we don't face this fact, if we continue to walk in the way of today's PKK uprising by comparing it to today's PKK uprising, we will make a false historical confrontation. We shouldn't call for a confrontation to produce new grudges from history. We don't need active grudges, grudges. But when people sin, when they commit a crime, they repent, they cleanse themselves, the states cleanse themselves, if they have sinned against their citizens for any reason, if they have committed crimes against their citizens, then the states repent, as Mr. Kamer Genç has called them, and apologize. That, my friends, is a virtue worthy of a great state. There's no need to put any other meaning into the apology or to take the apology our Prime Minister wishes to another place, and this isn't the place.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0021par0393	For God's sake! Then where is it, where is it? Isn't this the seat of the Assembly General Assembly?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0022par0394	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0395	There is no rebellion in my class, my friends, but there is terrible violence in my class.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0021par0396	Where is it?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0397	My lesson is the Kerbala of the 20th century, my friends. Innocent people were slaughtered there. We don't need to go into details. Embarrassing memories have happened. As a matter of fact, when he was a young lieutenant, Mohsin Batur, who said he was sent to the site of his studies, said he wouldn't tell his life, he apologized to his readers. We all know there were embarrassing events out there. It's a historical fact that the research commission is not set up. I believe that every single one of us should apologize, even from the information reflected in us. Look, my class is getting more and more Kurdish. Mr. Hamdi says in his report. ▪ The danger is growing. My class says that the republic needs a boil, an operation. 1926, there is no rebellion in my class. Let's not talk about it by heart.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0399	You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0400	Let's not talk about it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0401	Since the 1860s...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0402	My class is ignorant...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0403	You don't know Sultan Abdulhamit!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0404	The mandatory residence must be applied...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0405	You've got a brush on your hand and you're scribbled on history.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0406	▪ High officials must be given authority over colonial governments.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0407	It's a shame! What are you...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0408	See, my friends, the area defined as my class is asked to be given the authority of the colonial administration.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0409	That's what you're talking about on the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey! It's a shame! Shame on you, Mr. President!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0024par0410	Shame! You're talking about all our pasts!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0411	And as a matter of fact...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0412	It's a shame!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0413	As a matter of fact, at that time, the fourth public opinion inspector...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0414	That's not gonna happen. So much history and Turkey's Grand National Assembly...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0415	Abdullah Alpdoğan, the fourth public inspector...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0416	Look at that!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0417	...as well as the rank of feared and governor and equipped with the authority of the governor of the colony. That's not what we're talking about by heart. These are information from reports found in the archives of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0418	He's talking like he doesn't know! It's your job to scribble, people!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0419	There's no need to go into details, no need to go into details, but let's just know, Ders...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0025par0420	We need to get into the details.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0421	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0422	My lesson is a wound in our hearts.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0423	We need to know the details of all the collaborators.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0026par0424	Let's see what the Clave has decided.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0425	We, the injustices, the discrimination, the violence that was committed in Dersim...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0426	Mr. President, I mean, we've committed atrocities, massacres...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0019par0427	We believe it should be discussed.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0428	He's insulting a nation! He's saying this without knowing, without shame!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0027par0429	Mr. President, he's interfering with the speaker.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0028par0430	Mr. Vural, I promise. Please, I missed it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0431	That's not gonna happen! Do you have proof?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0029par0432	Guys, he's talking about your past, too! Shame!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0433	Look at this place! For God's sake!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0434	He's going to...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0435	It's a shame! That doesn't sound like Congress. This doesn't suit the nation, I swear!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0031par0436	Anyway, let the truth come out, there's no need for that.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0437	Dear friends, under the lofty roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have friends who are trying to draw the quotes I've made based on the reports.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0438	You're pulling!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0439	This state is the state of all of us.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0440	You have nothing to do but insult people!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0441	I don't think anyone's ever...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0023par0442	You insult Abdulhamit, and insult Cevdet Pasha.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0443	...is not authorized to claim this common country alone, my friends. Our Prime Minister's apology must be understood correctly.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0032par0444	The Prime Minister doesn't have the authority to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0445	Taking this apology to the wrong place, the hostility of Ataturk, the reckoning of the republic...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0033par0446	It's like you apologizing to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0447	Turkey knows that turning it into a form is just a distortion.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0034par0448	Let's get all the paperwork out, see who it is. Let's put it all in the middle. Who's Seyit Reza?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0030par0449	Mr. Prime Minister said, "If I have to apologize on behalf of the state, "I apologize and I apologize if there is such a thing in the literature." Now, Mr. Kilicdaroglu insisted that Mr. Prime Minister should apologize, and Mr. Prime Minister said that if he had a place in the literature, I'm sorry and I'm sorry. To say that the same must be done by Dersimlı Kilicdaroglu, please do not retreat to other places. To you, dear friends, this apology...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0035par0451	It's a boat fight.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0036par0452	Where are you taking it? What kind of place are you taking?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0037par0453	Mr. President, we can't listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0036par0454	What are you going to listen to, he's not talking about the group proposal anyway?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0038par0455	Congressmans, please... please, Congressmans...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0039par0456	My fellow lawmakers, Turkey is a democratic republic, not a taboo republic. We have to be able to talk about everything freely, we have to be able to argue.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0040par0457	If you're sincere, accept it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0039par0458	But we're free from any argument, any tension or conflict scenarios that can increase hatred and hostility. We...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0041par0459	Then accept the motion.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0040par0460	What's the verdict, yes or no? Mr. Metiner, is it yes or no?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0042par0461	In these terms, AKP will have to accept the motion.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0041par0462	Let's face it, let's investigate, let's all come together.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0043par0463	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0044par0464	Of course, dear friends, I can quote a lot here, I can quote a lot, but this isn't a history stand.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0045par0465	What are you going to quote, what are you going to say?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0046par0466	You're talking history, history.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0045par0467	You're talking history.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0047par0468	There are exiles here after the class massacre, which are very heartbreaking.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0048par0469	Who did the massacre, our ancestors, our grandparents?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0047par0470	My lesson is that children's daughters were given up for adoption, and that heart is painful.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0049par0471	Let's look into it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0047par0472	We still don't have the records of these girls, we still haven't been able to face the exiles of my class, my friends.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0050par0473	Then why don't you say yes to the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0049par0474	Say yes then, say yes.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0051par0475	Say yes. Let's investigate.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0052par0476	We're sorry about the verbal...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0053par0478	Dear Metiner, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0052par0479	Dear friends, as the final word, we don't think we can solve this with temporary commissions, we should do much more permanent research.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0053par0480	Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0052par0481	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0054par0483	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0055par0484	Twist it, twist it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0054par0485	If you're brave, accept it and we'll investigate.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0056par0486	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0057par0487	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0056par0488	Mr. President, Hatip has unfortunately shown the lack of insight in the Turkish National Assembly, in a parliament where the Turkish nation's sovereignty is being used, to call this nation a murderer, to put the black spot on the white forehead of this nation. I condemn him. He must first apologize to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to the Turkish nation. Your testimony is no different from those who claim Armenian genocide. I condemn you, I condemn you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0058par0491	And I condemn you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0056par0492	It's a shame, it's a sin. He doesn't have a document, he did a massacre. You say.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0058par0493	You can't stand it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0056par0494	Who's got a gun? When 33 soldiers are killed, you use this bench without knowing what they were killed for.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0058par0495	We curse them all, we curse all kinds of terrorist violence.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0056par0496	You threw up your grudge in this House. Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0059par0497	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0060par0498	Give me all of them, and we'll search them all.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0061par0499	Take it, take it, take it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0059par0500	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0060par0501	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0059par0502	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0060par0503	When we talk about our orator proposal, this is where we...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0062par0504	Mr. President, he's made some very serious accusations, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0059par0505	Mr. Kaplan has something to say.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0060par0506	Mr. President, the Minister said this is not the place to talk about the proposal.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0062par0508	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0063par0509	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0064par0510	You said you did. You forgot already?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0065par0511	He did, sir, he did.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0066par0512	I didn't say that. Why do you feel uncomfortable?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0067par0513	You were more together. No, let's look into it, find out if there's a truth. It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0514	Mr. Kaplan, you can't hear the sound of your friends. Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0516	Mr. President, Mr. Orator, not with a motion to investigate, it's the work of the Human Rights Commission.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0517	One moment, Mr. Kaplan, I can't understand. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0519	Secondly...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0520	What did the second one say, sir? The first said, "This is not the place."
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0521	It's not the work of the research commission, it's the work of the Human Rights Commission. He said this is not the place to discuss the motion.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0522	Yeah...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0523	That's the expression.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0524	When I say yes, I mean what you said.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0070par0525	I don't have that look.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0526	About our proposal...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0527	You talked about your motion. I mean, it's not like there's any bullying here that you need to talk about.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0528	We'll already tell you what the motions in Oslo are like, we'll tell you about the constitutional control mechanism, we'll tell you what it means.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0529	Mr. Kaplan, are you...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0530	This painting is wrong, it's misguided.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0531	I understand, Mr. Kaplan, that our way here is not in the same way as the 19th Amendment.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0069par0532	Mr. President, someone is transferring it to the Parliament Human Rights Commission, and one of them is saying it's not here. Their prime minister apologizes, their minister steals from a separate line. Here, in terms of intimacy, I mean, you can make an apology.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0533	Okay, if the motion is filed, it will be carried out. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0071par0535	Who are you to test us for intimacy?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0536	Mr. Kaplan, your words...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0072par0537	Information and direction... we're expressing what these motions are.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0538	Mr. Kaplan, isn't he going to present his orator ideas here? I mean, we're not here to decide what the speakers are going to say.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0072par0539	A parliamentary investigation is a separate issue in the Human Rights Commission, where two issues are discussed here and spoken behind closed doors. This is the people's stand, and at first, we need to talk on everyone's stand.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0540	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0072par0541	Friends, does anyone object to this?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0542	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0073par0543	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0544	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Kaplan, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0074par0546	They're all spoken for on the stand. The other is not to be transferred to the Human Rights Commission. You can't get away with this. If you're going to apologize, apologize properly. Do what's necessary.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0548	Mr. Kaplan... Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0075par0550	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0551	Mr. Metiner, please take a seat. Let's hear it for Mr. Aydın. Please... MEHMET METINER (Name) ▪ But he accused almost the traitor.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0076par0553	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0554	But you don't listen to your conversations. Please, have a seat. I'll make a promise to Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0076par0555	A group of vice presidents wants a word, why are you pushing it so hard?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0556	What am I pushing, Mr. Kaplan?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0076par0557	No, Mr. President. The vice president of the group wants to speak of two serious errors, on behalf of his group to make a statement and on behalf of his motion. You don't promise the vice president of the group. Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0559	Mr. Kaplan, this isn't a place to talk. If you'd like to explain anything...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0076par0560	Mr. President, you're listening to a group of vice presidents out of courtesy, you're not making any promises.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0561	No, I give every group vice president a courtesy and a courtesy of the Civil Code. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0076par0562	No, Mr. President, you're being biased.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0563	But...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0076par0564	AKP's Parliament Speakers are biased. Shame, shame...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0565	I return those words to you, Mr. Kaplan. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Please sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0077par0568	What's the research proposal, what's the research commission...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0068par0569	Well, okay. Whatever you have to say after the proposal is accepted, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0077par0570	...what's the human rights commission... it may be new, but if he doesn't know, we'll tell him. I'm gonna go out there and...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0078par0571	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0077par0572	Whether he's in favor of research or not...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0079par0573	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0078par0574	Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0077par0575	So that's how you apologize to the mayors.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0078par0577	Mr. Hasip, give us a minute to talk, for God's sake.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0578	Mr. Kaplan, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0077par0579	You're not listening. I'm sorry, but we've been listening to you as much as...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0078par0580	Mr. President, our orator was free to express the event there, in all its nakedness, in all its ostentatiousness...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0581	The minister has already asked for a word, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0078par0582	He tried to come out and express it. A congressman here has to speak freely on the stand. While explaining their free expression, there were various taunts here, even condemned statements...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0583	There are limits to explaining their free expression, but under the Constitution and the Civil Code, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0078par0584	I'd like to point out that I don't find it very accurate. There are all sorts of ideas out there, all sorts of ideas out of place. We're listening respectfully here.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0585	He has to speak clean language when everyone's talking here, on this stand.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0078par0586	But everyone needs to maintain that respect. He needs to treat all the speakers there with respect to all the MPs here.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0587	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0081par0588	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0589	Yes, Mr. Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0081par0590	I want a promise on bullying.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0591	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Metiner?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0081par0592	I almost lost my sense of treason...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0593	No, what did he say to you, Mr. Metiner, that's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0082par0594	Don't talk on the stand...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0081par0595	For treason, for lack of insight...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0596	Mr. Metiner, look, I want our lawmakers to know that if there are any allegations of bullying, I have to ask every member of the House under the Civil Code. Can you explain what Mr. Vural said to you that he picked on you?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0081par0598	He accused me of having a wife on the charge of Armenian genocide, almost treason, no more than that. (sing) Apologize to the Turkish people (sing)
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0599	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0083par0601	Mr. President, what is it...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0080par0602	Just a moment, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0083par0603	He'll probably apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0084par0604	Picking up where he left off the insults...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0085par0607	My dear friends, I did not say that this motion was not to be discussed by this House roof.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0086par0608	You did!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0085par0609	This roof of Congress is a roof where everything can be spoken freely, so don't get me wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0086par0611	You said it, how many times have you said it?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0085par0612	Secondly, dear friends, just yesterday we had an MP who defended the exiles of my class, who said: "It's a good thing they were expelled from Dersim. At least they got rid of the conditions of the Middle Ages, they got good education, they became civilized, they became men."
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0087par0613	Lies, lies, lies!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0085par0614	This is a great injustice, this is a great murder, this is fascism itself. That's how my lesson is for the exiles..
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0087par0615	He's not right.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0088par0616	Mr. President, what does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0085par0617	I said there were massacres against innocent people in Dersim. The PKK is bringing in two groups side by side with the incident against Dersim by rebellion.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0088par0618	Is Mehmet Metiner entitled to insult?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0085par0619	The Peace and Democracy Party and the National Movement Party because they're both trying to get better than that.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0089par0621	Get out of here.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0085par0622	We, like lions, are on the basis of rights and freedom, and because of our human sensibility, we are taking care of it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's no one's place to accuse a congressman of treason here.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0090par0626	Thank you, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0091par0627	What are you clapping for? Shame, shame.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0092par0628	You should be ashamed. Alas, you insulted Ataturk the other day here.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0093par0630	You can't scare anyone by raising your voice.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0092par0631	You molested your own congressman...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0094par0632	Shut up!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0095par0634	Yes, sir. Yes, sir. We shut up, we shut up. You guys shut up and sit tight.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0635	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0097par0636	Yes, what do you want to say, Mr. Kaplan?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0637	I want to talk about bullying, he picked on us. Mr. Kaplan, every time I explain, I have to ask. You're going to tell him to go on record. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Two minutes of bullying, I promise. From here, from this bench.... My class is not the place to speak here. On the one hand, the Minister of the AK PARTY, who says, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry." Friends, this bench, here, is the place for everything. And the place to apologize is in this chair. As long as the Prime Minister doesn't come to this stand and apologize, when you don't say yes to these research commissions...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0098par0644	Are you the one who decides how to apologize, or are you the one who determines that?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0645	...as long as you don't bring in the proposals for the class, unless you open the missing girls' files, you'll be in such a conflict and you won't know what you're doing unless you face history and reality. A speaker of yours is transferring it to the Human Rights Commission, and a preacher of yours says: "This is not the place to speak." Where will you speak? Are you going to talk behind closed doors...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0099par0646	In Oslo, in Oslo.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0647	Are you going to talk in deep places, talk on the National Security Board? Can you tell me where you're going to talk? You'll come, you'll speak properly in the House.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0100par0648	We know how to speak properly.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0649	If you're convincing, if you're sincere, if you're right... it's because it's the motion our group brought in.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0100par0650	You question your own language first.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0651	God is one. If I make a motion, you'll object exactly to it. And you failed in my lesson, and your insincerity was revealed. You're being hypocritical, you're being hypocritical. There's no sincerity in any of your words, you can't stand up for yourself.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0100par0652	You keep throwing up your grudge.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0653	Here's the motion, here's the vote... Your votes in this motion will show your performance.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0100par0654	This is the only place you can talk free.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0655	Your votes will be drawn up. The rest is a story. You're on a intimacy test. You can't control TVs, media, and you can't silence this bench.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0101par0656	The BDP and the AKP merged.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0096par0657	The facts will be spoken of from this stand, and the apology will be from this stand. There's no other way. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0102par0660	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0103par0661	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0102par0662	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0103par0663	Mr. Metiner has made an attempt on our group.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0102par0664	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0103par0665	Regarding this process, we will actually demonstrate a co-operation between the BDP and the AKP. Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will answer to taunting on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0102par0666	In accordance with Article 69 of the Civil Code, I give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0669	Yeah, shame on the lying history. If there have been events in my class, everyone will look at history records. At the beginning of this, the Turkish Grand National Assembly reports. Because that decision is made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All the details of the operation there are in the House records here. If you really, really want to come to the right conclusion and you're really brave...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0105par0670	A one-party period...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0671	It doesn't matter if it's one party or not, Turkey is the Grand National Assembly. That's where the people involved in your party, the Democratic Party, decided. Menderes is involved, and Celal Bayar is involved. But from what I can see, we're watching this.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0106par0673	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0674	Today's apology is the same as the BDP's motion.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0107par0675	You feed each other.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0676	You're acting the same way, but his motion is that you...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0107par0677	You've uncovered the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0108par0678	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0679	...that you don't accept in any way, even though it's your prime minister's fault.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0109par0680	Listen! Shut up! Shut up!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0681	If you're brave, let's search all the archives together. Let's see, how did he get involved with the French because of the Hatay situation? How did the commanders of the Russian army play a role in the class? Let's look at the Russian archives. Let's look at the British archives. Let's take a look at the General Staff archives. Look, if Turkey wants to get to the truth, let the Grand National Assembly set up a commission, and let this commission look into it. Who's in there, who's in it, who's in it, who's in it? Who killed 33 soldiers?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0110par0683	Are you going to say yes to this motion?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0684	Who killed 33 soldiers on the Sinder Bridge?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0110par0685	Are you saying yes, Hajji?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0686	Who is attacking the troops? Let's look it up together.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0111par0687	Congressmans, why do you mind opening the archives? What are you two talking about? It doesn't make any sense. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0689	So why does it bother you that the archives are being searched? Are you afraid to face reality? Then let's investigate. So what, you're against it?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0112par0690	Then say yes.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0691	No, that's what your Prime Minister said. They've given their motions against apologies.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0113par0693	Mr. Halaçoglu, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0114par0694	The Prime Minister is Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0695	Every document offered by the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0115par0696	You're saying that both the government documents and the Prime Minister's... What an oxymoron!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0697	Let's explain the papers together.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0116par0698	Mr. Halaçoglu, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0104par0699	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0116par0701	Thank you. I submit to your votes the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code... [[Controversial conversations from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Congressmans, I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0117par0708	I applaud, I applaud you all!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit01spe0116par0709	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 82. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, SmurfÜnal, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0118par0007	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the draft bill for amendments to the Military Code. I hereby salute your high council. The Bedelli military is an application based on the logic of paying a certain price for a period of reduced time as an alternative to mandatory military service in Turkey since the Ottoman era. The grounds for the application are that the military and the state do not lose their jobs and their financial needs. At different times in the Republic era, 10 times so far have been applied at a price. Hopefully, this will be his 11th, priced app. The decision that the application did not violate the principle of equality by the Constitutional Court was issued in 2004 with the number 2004/12 decision. Members of parliament, the 72nd article of our Constitution states that after the right and duty of every Turk, the service will be carried out or carried out in the Turkish Armed Forces or in the public sector. Concerns about how military service will be carried out are also organised in the Code of Reserve Officers 1076 and Reserve Military Officers 1111, which can be carried out in the form of military service or exchange. Members of lawmakers, as you know, the application of the military at cost has been implemented three times before -- I mean after 1980. It was intended to block the collection of hidden funds and polls that reached large sums of 3802, dated 3358 and 1992. The practice, dated 1999 and by Law 4459, is intended to contribute to the removal of the severe losses and the damage caused by the earthquake that took place on August 17, 1999. Dear lawmakers, we are all aware of the fact that every year, the number of students in the same law, after Article 89 of the Law, has increased every year, according to Article 86 of the Military Law. Under a bill designed to block this savings, those who have received a daily payment of 30 years of age will be considered to have served military service by paying the price and not being subject to basic military training, and there will be no administrative and judicial investigation and prosecution due to the rights of the polls and the balance, and those who have been launched will be terminated. The income earned by this practice will be used to finance social services and aid activities for the victims, veterans, needy private families, including the General Command of the gendarmes and the Coast Guard Command, and the members of the Turkish Armed Forces and security services class. The 30-year-old limit, as predicted by the bill, has been determined by continuing the fight against terrorism effectively, no resistance to any weakness, and the number of private and private soldiers the Turkish Armed Forces require, as required by military service. On the other hand, basic military training has been terminated since military service did not produce the results required. I'll try to explain this in detail in a moment. With a residence permit or a work permit abroad, many of our citizens are taking advantage of military service each year, with foreign currency brought in so that our citizens who work as employers or as occupational workers do not lose their jobs due to military service. As you know, this practice was implemented on March 20, 1980 by a change in Article 1 of the 1111 Military Law. During the past period, many of our citizens have been removed from military service with foreign currency because they could not come to our country to participate in basic military training for reasons such as permits and so on. From 1980 until today, nearly 310,000 of our citizens have benefited from foreign currency. Members of lawmakers, as I have just explained, it is clear that in the wake of a three-time post-1980 military military exercise, the victims of our citizens have been eliminated, as well as that the state has received serious income from these practices. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to briefly discuss the results from the past. In 1987, the total income of the state was 100 million German marks from the application of 18.433 citizens. In 1992, 168 million German marks were made, while the number of our citizens benefited increased to 35.111. A 91 per cent increase in the number of people who have benefited from the previous procedure is evident. Dear lawmakers, in accordance with the law that took effect in 1999 in order to heal the wounds of the Marmara earthquake, 72,290 of our citizens took advantage of this practice and registered 1 billion 66 million German marks in our government's vault as income. On the other hand, I find it helpful to stress that the number of citizens who benefited from the military was a 100 percent increase compared to the previous one in 1990. So when you compare the three terms, it looks like 100 percent increase is going up by doubling more or less linearly in each of them. Dear lawmakers, in addition to the grounds I've just stated that the removal of basic military training with foreign currency as well as in military service as the EC PARTI, we have also signed a number of new regulations with foreign currency, in addition to the grounds that those in charge of self-proclaimed free professional activities will be able to perform military service without having to close their workplaces and thus affect the working life of our citizens abroad for a positive effect. By this means, we will all assume that we have fulfilled our obligations for each of our citizens, who were not over thirty-eight years old, who had not exceeded the age limit of thirty-eight years, and who were also required to pay 7.668 euros at the price of exchange, without the age limit being observed, without basic military training, for the price of 10,000 euros. In this way, we aim to ensure that our citizens who work abroad do not have a negative impact on business, rather than make it easier for them. The estimated number of responsibilities over the age of 30 is around 460,000, according to the calculations of our Ministry of National Defense. When we consider the 100 percent increase in applications in the three periods I have just submitted, we estimate that an application of 72,000 will reach a minimum of 150,000 people, and when we consider the opportunities to benefit from current loans and banks, this 150,000 could reach 200,000 figures and rise to them. So, when a citizen of 200,000 and more citizens take advantage of this practice, we estimate that a resource of $6 billion can be created for the people in need that I've just counted. There were allegations that the price for military service was high -- as I completed my vows -- was high in priced military and foreign currency. So I believe it would be helpful to talk about some of the figures related to this issue. I have national income accounts from 1999 to 2010 from Turkey's Statistical Institution. In 1999, our national income, which was around $4,000, was sometimes reduced in terms of economic crises over the years, sometimes increased, and at the end of 2010, at $10,000. The 2011 figures will be announced in March 2012. Our economists are predicting that this is going to be between $13,000 and $15,000 per person. Let's look at the cost-effective military practice first. I'm going to base the last app on 1999. It's $3,907 per person when it's applied this year. At the end of 2010, a multinational income per person is $10,067. When we compare the two, the increase is 257 percent; I present to your attention. On the other hand, when we look at the price of military service...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0119par0026	Name minimum wage, tell me the salary of a college professor...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0118par0027	...of the German mark in 1999, 15,000 German marks. It's $8,064 when we convert it into dollars. Today's money is $30,000, determined by our government. When we turn 30 grand from today's wolf into dollars, it's 16.242. Mathematically, the increase is 201 percent when we compare the two. The increase just now, the increase in revenue is 257 percent, the increase here is 201 percent. So it looks like it's about 0.50 points down. When we look at foreign currency practice, it's also 257 per cent increase in income. I don't want to repeat myself so I don't take up your time. In exchange for foreign currency and military fees, you know, it was between 5,000 euros and 7,000 euros. At this time, this law will be applied as 10,000 euros if it passes through our Parliament. When we compare them, we estimate an average increase of 171 percent. The increase in national revenue, I repeat, is 257 percent, more than 100 points, give or take.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0120par0030	One night, it went up to $10,000...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0118par0031	I'm telling you the numbers, my friend, you can get them in different places.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0121par0032	It's not national income, it's a personal expense.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0118par0033	In one sentence, I'd like to approach the issue in terms of revenue projections in 2011. Our revenue forecast for 2011 is that we hope it will be between $13,000 and $15,000 per person. Of course, it will be published this March 2012. The minimum, based on $13,000, the increase in revenue is 322%. Thirty-two percent is too big. 171 percent...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0122par0034	I don't think the data of the TİKIK...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0123par0035	How much do minimum wage people charge?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0118par0036	I'll finish up, guys, and you can express your opinion. You'll have the right to speak again. Congressmans, there is also a debate on whether or not basic military training should continue, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words. The removal of 21 days of basic military training has been beneficial. In other words, it is not possible to complete combat training in two or three weeks. As a matter of fact, it is said by both the ruling and opposition lawmakers that the transition to the professional army and the fight to improve the fight against terrorism should be done by professional trained personnel. As a matter of fact, our government is currently training the people it chooses. We consider it very useful for the Turkish Armed Forces to remove these 21-day educations, given the short-term training, equipment, housing, the fact that they're creating mental disorders over our long-term military brothers, and the burden they bring to the state. Members of parliament have also addressed the issues of our opposition, the modernisation of the Turkish Armed Forces, professional army, and conscientious rejection. We, the AK PARTY Group, don't want to get into any discussion here, thinking that these are outside the scope of this law. When the time and place is right, I'd like to point out that we're going to be making the necessary and satisfying explanations about these matters in the future. So, to sum up what we're saying, the 30-year-old limit is a value, an age value, as a result of a mathematical set of accounts made by both our Chief of Staff and our National Ministry of Defense. We believe that a number under or above this will not see the need of the state. So we think it's a great 30-year-old app. This allows the Turkish Armed Forces to fill their ranks, allowing us to continue to fight terrorism effectively. We also think that a 12 - year savings from 1999 to 2011 would help to make it easier for about 460,000 people to be melted down by some form of military service. You know, of course, it's a matter of paying military service. It's also possible that it's free, and it's not appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best in the name of our country, our nation, our young people and the families of our young people.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0124par0043	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Aydın Ağan Ayadın has been asked to speak on behalf of the entire bill, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0125par0047	Mr. President, I have been promised to share with you my personal views on the draft bill of the Military Code of 82. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the public has long been on the agenda of a high-profile military service. It's not the first time Bedelli's been brought up. The Republic has been drafted three times in its administration. Although the ruling party spokesman, who was just speaking on this bench, said 10 times, is referring to the priced military service during the Ottoman Empire, which the representative of the ruling party spoke of. In the period of the Republic's government, Turkey was a three-time veteran. In 1987, he served in 1992 and 1999. So we are not discussing the laws of the Ottoman Empire, but the laws of the republican government. The bill that we're discussing is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Code, as I see it, because the priced military bill contains fiscal provisions. So, with this bill, the budget of the Republic of Turkey is capitalised. The commission of all fiscal provisions is the Plan Budget Commission, and so far the three-priced law has been discussed in the Plan Budget Commission, which is the first time the Plan Budget Commission has discussed this four-period law in place of the Plan Budget Commission. In this regard, it is highly unlikely that the Plan Budget Commission has not been discussed in terms of fiscal provisions, and in the case of this law being passed in such a manner, the Constitutional Court will be able to repeal it if it goes to the Constitutional Court. There's also a law proposal given by me before the government's bill on its pricey law, and there's a second law proposal given by Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, deputy leader of the Republican People's Party. Since each of the three drafts and two law proposals were of the same nature, the relevant clause of the Parliamentary Civil Code, and so far the parliamentary legislature rules, the bill and proposals had to be merged on the commission. It's very wrong that it wasn't merged. It's against the legislatures of the House. This shouldn't have happened. We're discussing the Bedelli law. In the government's bill, people with only 30,000 lira incomes are taking advantage of it. This is also contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution. So the rich don't serve, the poor do. This is extremely wrong. This wasn't supposed to happen like this. I wish Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, and Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, the proposals of the law, were combined with this bill, and not only did the rich benefit from our proposals, but the public would be more comfortable with it today, but if this law were to pass through this Parliament, it would be a pity that public conscience would suffer. Only the rich who pay 30,000 liras will benefit from this law and serve without a single day of military service, but our young people who have the same conditions and have no money will not benefit from it. This is extremely wrong and contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution. The Bedelli Law stipulates a change in the Military Law of 1111. I think, today, if we're making a change in military law, we need to redefine the strategy of military service, redefine the training of soldiers, not just the pricey law -- there are other issues that need to be changed and updated about the military law. It's wrong to bring up the price in all this. Therefore, we had to redefine the military times of those who were under the current gun, and those of our young men who would then serve as soldiers or reserve officers in the election declaration of the Republican People's Party, which I gave to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but today we don't see them at all, we only bring up the price, we bring up the soldier who had the money to go into the army. The specified fee is a high price. 30,000 liras is a really high price. There are very few young people who can afford it. This fee must be taken down, and this must be drawn to 15,000 Turkish liras as we suggested. If there are 30,000 liras, only 100,000 or 110 thousand people will have to take advantage of the 460,000 who are currently under obligation to take advantage of the bill. However, if we lower this 30,000 lira fee, the number of young people who will benefit from it will increase, and it will be more just. I also want to draw attention to the age limit. Really, thirty and over is a very high age. The age limits are usually 27 and 28 years old when we examine the three - price law that was passed before this. Let's join hands with his opposition to his power, co-operate with him, withdraw the fee and the age; he may be twenty-seven years old or twenty-eight years old; at least in the Republic of Turkey, let's meet together, at least in the Republic of Turkey, where he has a job, a doctorate, a degree, and a delaying military service, a common place that will allow our young people to benefit more. If you insist on 30,000 Turkish liras and insist on it at the age of thirty, those who will benefit will be limited, only rich children will be drafted at cost, poor children will not benefit from it. This is extremely wrong. This matter needs to be corrected. Other than that, if we're discussing military service, we need to bring up some basic military issues here. When a four-year-old student goes to military service as a midshipman, will he know more about military legislation, or will the petty officers there know more about it? But a midshipman who finished my four-year higher education, who spent 20 years in the military, even though he didn't know much better, he was able to give instructions. Let us rearrange these things, not just the part of the Military Law concerning the price, but the strategy of military service in the Military Law, the training of military service, the problems of military service, and restore them to the conditions of the day. And when We have made it (the law) known, We only deliver them from the service, that they may give a great reward to the children of a certain group. It's not fair, it's not fair. Other than that, since we're talking about military service again and we're talking about the price, there's a need for 21 days of basic military service to be part of that law again. Even if people are paying the price, every Turkish youth must serve as a basic soldier for at least 21 days. This is a civil right, every citizen must serve. I'm sure our young people who are going to take advantage of it will be uncomfortable, and they won't be able to swallow it. Can you imagine a Turkish teenager turning 21 years old, turning 30 years old, never going to the army, doing it with his money! You get paid for it, but at least they'll have to do 21 days of basic military service. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0126par0060	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun. Now to speak for himself, Ahmet Toptastatta, MP of Afyon.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0127par0063	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to amendments to Military Law 1111 on the broad majority of the draft bill. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Three changes have been made before the draft bill we discussed in the draft drafting of the 1111 Military Law. There have been three arrangements on this issue in 12 years, but it makes sense that the AKP's Authority hasn't made an adjustment in ten years. However, the priced military arrangement was constantly kept alive and encouraged the postponement of military service, leading our young ones to expect on a thorny basis. The Republican People's Party MPs, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi and Mr. Rasim Çakır, on March 16, 2011, issued the Law Proposal 2/887, and with this offer, brought up military service. This proposal has been intended to reduce the stockpile of those who have no financial power to compensate for the fact that our young people have had professional, family and personal problems and have been put on hold for ten years, so that those who have no financial power will pay the price, and those who have the financial power to pay the amount of their power, and those who pay the social state principle, and to be able to melt those masses and make the plans of the Turkish Armed Forces according to objective data. On 17 March 2011, the day after Republican People's Party lawmakers submitted this proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Prime Minister stood in front of the cameras, and I read from Mr. Prime Minister's mouth that the sentence here is low and the mistakes are Mr. Prime Minister's, and there's nothing wrong with me when I read it. Mr. Prime Minister says: "Will the project be announced on foot?" What is the attitude of our people at this point right now, and what isn't? There are people in this country who have money, who don't. Now you're going to stand up and say, "Here you go, use it." You're going to say, "If there's no money, let him do his military service." You have to put it on a scale of justice. It goes on: We don't have that on our agenda right now. And when they asked about friends on the plane, I told them that if they really needed to focus on something like this, we'd do it after the elections, including this constitutional issue, if there's a referendum situation, we'd get up and we'd only move that time to a referendum so that our people could decide that. Because I can't personally assume such responsibility as Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Because someone's got money, someone's got no money. He who has the money, he who has the money, he will get rid of the army, he who has no money, he will go into the army. Whoever I've met, I'm a citizen in a corner of the country, and they don't take kindly to it. When we left, we went out as some of the orphans. We came out as the voice of the silent masses. Then we have to ask, which means we have to take our step. Now, I ask the Prime Minister, what has changed that those who have money in this country will give their money and serve, and those who have no money will go to the army of lambs and lambs? Mr. Prime Minister, who you were in this country, who gave up on the orphans, you were the voice of the quiet majority, you asked the people in the isolated corners, so you asked the strange group, what changed, and what changed, and you gave up on them, and now you're going to take money, and you're going to give it to the soldier who has no money, but he's going to go to the soldier who doesn't have money? Did you ask the orphans about it? Did you ask them about it in the middle of nowhere? That's what you told them before the election, you won the election, you didn't need them, you didn't need to ask them. Again, after our MPs made this offer and shortly before the AKP's proposal came up, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc says there is no priced military on our government's agenda, if you ask about today and tomorrow in front of the cameras. When does he say that? On Wednesday, September 14, 2011, about a month before the government's offer. They didn't have that on their agenda a month ago, and now it's come up. He says, again, Mr. Arinc offers such an offer that, instead of being affordable, the system that will reduce the army of 800,000 people to 50,000. Are you telling us that your main objective is the presence of 50,000 armed forces? The number of gunmen in Turkey is 465 thousand, the number of those currently serving, the number of those who will serve at cost, and the number of those who will benefit from it. I mean, manipulating the Republican People's Party's proposal with a figure of about 800,000 troops, using it as political material, was one of the actions Mr. Brent Arinc has shown since then. What's the matter now, Bulent Arinc, back from his ideas? There wasn't one today, there wasn't one tomorrow. Again, Deputy Prime Minister Bozdağ was paying the price. During that time, he said. Now, what's the matter with all the good lawmakers that you're talking about, you're telling the money guy to use it, and now he's got the deal on? You've sold tributes like an heiress, everything in the country. You're saying you're doubling the money that you're getting from the expats who are having trouble making their own living abroad, you're borrowing it to the German banks, you're going to go on being a slave. You're saying, you've robbed them of green capital, you've robbed the Lighthouse, and now you want to confiscate what's left of it. Eden will find it, remember. During these negotiations, we had motions rejected by the Commission. 15,000 lira-7, according to his financial power. Let him pay between 500 liras, let the strange guru, whose income is less than 12,000 liras, go to a free soldier, take advantage of this law free of charge, and ask the Turkish youth who will take advantage of this law to take advantage of it for at least twenty-one days of basic training, to breathe the air of military service. All that was denied. The Prime Minister didn't have a conscience, and I'm thinking maybe in the Supreme Assembly, the MPs will come to conscience, vote according to the public's expectations, and that's how the law will turn out. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is not a matter of polarity. In this regard, the public's conscience has been seriously injured. He that hath money shall be given to him, and he that hath no money shall follow his son in Dağlıca, and in Çukurca, and in Yüksekova. I don't think that's in your conscience either. I expect you to support our amendment proposals, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0128par0074	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. The time for asking questions is ten minutes. Mr. Light, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Öz, Mr. Vural, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Sakık, Mr. Right, they have entered the system. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0129par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. During a period of preparation for the bill, he said, Mr. Justice Minister went on TV and worked with the Ministry of National Defence on conscientious rejection demands. After him, the Prime Minister made a statement saying, "What relationship does this have to do with a conscientious rejection?" Now, I ask you honestly: does the removal of twenty-one days of basic education in this bill mean a covert response to the demands of conscientious objectors? Can I have your opinion on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0130par0082	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0131par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I have two questions. First of all: What are the first 15 provinces in Turkey, as the percentage of fugitives, balances, and hiddens, when the population falls into percentages? My second question is, it's said that money will go to the families of the martyrs. I'm assuming that there's no foreign price in this, in the money that goes to the families of these martyrs. What part of budgeting can make such an arrangement? What are the criteria for helping these families of martyrs? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0132par0088	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0133par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the AKP governments have kept military service on the agenda since 2002, and today we're discussing it in the Parliamentary General Assembly. How many years after that do you intend to bring up the matter of paying troops and then legalize them again?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0132par0092	Thank you. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0134par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you plan to establish a legal ground, including the military system of Turkish Armed Forces, the national army, staff regime, military time, professional military, and take it out of the political agenda?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0132par0096	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0135par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, my question will also be: Do you have any work in the government to pay off the loans of pensioners, pensioners, or civil servants who served in public service before the military service? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0136par0101	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0137par0103	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will those who have been subjected to prosecution or investigation first benefit from the membership of this terrorist organization? On the other hand, are you planning on giving me a discount on this age and quantity? How many people are going to benefit from this, and how much do you hope to earn? On the other hand, you're raising this foreign currency to 10,000 euros, but really, those who live on unemployment allowance abroad in particular, do you intend to give them a discount on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0138par0108	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0139par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the price of the bill of military service has been set at $30,000. Our people are the majority who can't pay for it. Does this apply to the principle of equality of the Constitution, or does our conscience accept it? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0113	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0141par0115	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister that 36 PKK militants were killed on the plain of Hakkari Kazan on October 24th. After this death, they were transferred to Malatya Forensics, but even though it's still 35 days and 36 days ago, the families were forced to leave because of the weapons used there...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0117	Mr. Sakık, you have the right to ask about the matter. SIRRI SAKIK- Here, Mr. Secretary... it's relevant, and I'm concerned about the issue and the problem with this country... No, the country's problem is one thing, but you have to ask about it, and I have to warn everyone. Mr. President, please be neutral. I'm a man-against-human... I'm neutral, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0142par0122	Mr. President, look, I'm here to...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0123	I'm warning you, I'm warning you, I'm warning everyone.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0142par0124	What happens if you warn me a thousand times, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0125	Please, watch your manners.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0142par0126	Shame on you! Don't all trustees use their rights, their law?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0128	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0143par0129	It's a question of military duty, why are you interfering?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0130	I have the right to intervene.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0144par0131	There's the Minister of Transport here, so I'm asking him.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0132	You'll have to ask about it. Look, 10 people asked questions before you asked about it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0145par0133	They're going to ask you what you don't want, so why do you object to that?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0134	No, if you're off topic, of course I'll intervene, I have that right.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0146par0135	There's been thousands of talks out of the question here...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0136	Please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0147par0137	So you'd like to be a little neutral on the presidential mission, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0140par0138	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0148par0139	Mr. President, 36 in one country...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0147par0140	On a military mission...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0149par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. The current price of military service is seen to be very high.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0150par0143	Mr. President, you have no right. I work here, I have to carry the problems of this country here.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0151par0144	Mr. Right, I'll give you your time. Mr. Sakık, I've given you a minute of your time, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0150par0146	Sir, I couldn't finish, you interfered. I'd like to ask you a question.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0151par0147	No, I interfered, that's right. Under the regulations of the Civil Code, you'll have to ask about the matter, and I have to warn you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0152par0148	He's asking about his military assignment.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0150par0149	Mr. President, I'm asking the questions that any parliamentary speaker can ask about this matter, all the problems of a country. Thirty-six days have passed, and families still can't identify their children in front of Malatian Forensics. Isn't that the shame of the country?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0151par0150	You bring this up on another platform and on another subject.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0150par0151	As a parliamentary speaker of which weapon is used, as a citizen of this country, don't I have the right to know?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0151par0152	Mr. Right, can you go back into the system? Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0153par0154	You didn't have to do that, Mr. President. I mean, you really didn't have to do that. It's a one-minute question.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0151par0155	Mr. Right, can you go back into the system, please? Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0154par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. At the moment, the price of military service is considered a large sum by the public. Poor people want to serve at a price. Would you consider lowering the amount in that direction? Would you support such a motion? Second of all, there are people who leave for various reasons when they do their duty as a specialist. You know, these people are entitled to an officer's right. They all come and go to our doors every day together. Can't an officer be allowed to do that once in a while? I'd like your opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0155par0161	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0156par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. The most important and relevant institution regarding the bill is the Chief of Staff. I wonder if the Chief of Staff's opinion has been removed. If it was taken, I'd like to know how the Chief of Staff feels. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0157par0166	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0158par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: does he believe the Justice and Development Party is being fair in this bill? Do you have a clear conscience, Mr. Secretary? Do you have an approach, do you have a prediction, that a citizen will work for 60 months to get about 30,000 lira when the minimum wage in this country is $650? I want clarity in these matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0159par0173	Mr. Çelebi, thank you. I think there's been a mistake, Mr. Kusoglu, now come on in.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0160par0175	I did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0159par0176	Thank you. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0161par0178	Mr. President, the esteemed Regents... Thank you, Mr. President. We understand that poor children are the ones who will protect the country, but isn't it possible to reduce the down payment and increase the interest? Again, bankers will be the winners. I suggest you get the bankers to improve the deadlines and interest, and I want that done if possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0162par0183	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0163par0185	Mr. President, I'd like to know something from Mr. Secretary, whether the MPs in this Parliament will be able to benefit from this bill to the third degree, or how many people will benefit from it? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0162par0187	Thank you. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0164par0189	Mr. President, if you hadn't interfered with my word, I mean, there's a problem in a country. If I don't bring this problem to Parliament, where do I bring it? Here... our Minister is here. Now, what weapons have actually been used there that have been in front of the coroner's office for 36 days? Let's have a little empathy. If we were at the same point and our children were in that morgue, as parents, as citizens of this country, do we or do we not have the right to carry these questions to Parliament? So I ask the Minister, what weapons have been used that for 36 days parents haven't been able to identify their children? So when are we going to put an end to all this suffering? And there must be a rule of war, a morality because... two days ago, international delegations arrived there. International delegations can come and study in Hakkari, and I am a citizen of this country, and I'm a member of parliament, and if I can't ask that question, then there's no point in us sitting here. I'd appreciate it if you'd be a little more tolerant about this.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0162par0191	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Sakık, you want to exercise a right that the Civil Code does not grant, in general, I am implementing the Civil Code decrees; that's one. Second, there are 24 Turkish soldiers being martyred, so whatever morality there is...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0165par0195	We'll defend the same morality for them.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0166par0196	Mr. President, we'll have a formal discussion. You can't talk like that!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0162par0197	Turkish soldier... Turkish soldier...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0166par0198	Mr. President, you can't do this!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0167par0199	What are you clapping for?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0162par0200	One second... one second... you'll listen... one second... Turkish military combats terrorists within the measure of domestic law and international law.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0168par0202	Mr. President, the people of this country are dying, the soldiers are dying, the police are dying, his officer is dying, his youth is dying. We're going to talk about everyone who carries this country's wallet in this House.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0162par0203	Within the legal framework, both civil law and international law will fight as much as they're allowed, and no one has the right to prevent it, and no one can stop it! Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0168par0206	Mr. President, look, you can't have a conversation like this here! Mr. President, in the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0169par0208	What are you clapping for?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0168par0209	What are you applauding here? If there's a conscience, there are soldiers here...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0169par0211	You applaud the deaths, the deaths! Pity!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0168par0212	Mr. President, there are soldiers, police and officers who have been kidnapped by the PKK. If there was a conscience...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0170par0213	Mr. Kaplan, that's not the point. Please... Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0171par0215	See them in Oslo, in Oslo, not in Parliament.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0216	... instead of giving these applause to the bleachers, as the government -- the minister is here -- he makes an effort to save his soldiers, his police.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0171par0217	You'll see him in Oslo.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0218	Mr. Secretary, I ask you, what are you trying to do... that there's a system that judges those who bring in the military, the police and the officer?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0173par0219	Mr. Kaplan, please sit down! Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0220	Now, here he leaves a thousand Hamasians for one of Israel's soldiers, and you get up here and be biased. You can't argue like that, Mr. President!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0173par0221	I'm not being flippant! I'm on the side, of course I'm on the government side! I'm being very clear.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0222	That's a question of procedure. You're not sitting there with a AKP badge!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0173par0223	Of course I'm a fan of law and order! My side, of course!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0225	You're not sitting on a AKP badge! Every man in this country is sacred to us, and we have to keep him alive.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0173par0226	Mr. Secretary, your response time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0228	No one talks that way. We'll defend your right to live for everyone. Did you take one step for those kidnapped soldiers and cops? The Minister is here, the soldier is here, everyone is here. What did you do?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0174par0230	Mr. President, look, you're accusing us. You 24 soldiers...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0175par0231	Mr. Sakek, we don't have that kind of procedure. Mr. Secretary will answer. I'm not accusing anyone.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0232	We'll have a formal discussion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0175par0233	You'll look at the records. I'm not accusing anyone. Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0172par0235	You're on the side! You can't separate people, the people of this country.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0175par0236	Mr. Secretary, please answer the questions.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0176par0237	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'll answer the questions our lawmakers have asked as long as we can, as long as we can. If he hasn't answered his question -- my friends will follow him -- we'll send his answers to our fellow lawmakers in writing. First of all, I would like to point out that this law stems from a social reality, a need. The most concrete example -- no matter how it's interpreted -- is 60 thousand people over 45 years old. Over forty-five years old, over 60,000 people. It's a social reality. He doesn't fight with a citizen of the state, he doesn't fight with a citizen of the state, he doesn't get sued, but the result is the defendant with a citizen of the state. So what we want to do is to make peace with a citizen of the state. It's a kind of peace. It's from social reality. One of the speakers who said, "Look, we're taking this out, but here are the people who died in the military, we have the martyrs, let's subject their children to it." In 2009, we made a legal amendment to those who had died in the service of military service, who had remained anonymous, who had been given a decision to gain or had to be paid a disability pension; If a father and mother both demand a joint death or a father or a mother die, one of the brothers requested by the right is not allowed to be armed or discharged under a gun unless they are willing. He doesn't have the right to serve, but I want to go to the army. We say, "Welcome, you're welcome, it's an honor to serve." Again, if the father and mother disagree or both of them die in mutual agreement, the brother who is under the gun is discharged if he is willing, if he has no brother under the gun, or if he does not want to be discharged or the brother under the gun, the first brother who comes in the line of military service will not be taken into arms unless he is willing. Another issue -- in combating terrorism -- is that all of the brothers and sisters who have died under the Anti-Terror Act are not allowed to be under arms unless they are willing to be discharged, and all those who are under arms are discharged on their own terms. Why did we say that? If you are to bring this law, bring it for them. There was a term for it. Know that with the change in 2009, when we were in this army, we arranged for the relatives of those who lost their lives for this country. Another conversation about conscientious denial. Our beloved Sakarya MP, my dear Hajjir Münir Kutluata told me. This law has nothing to do with conscientious denial. It's very clear... that what our Justice Department has said is that the European Commission has been reduced to one in the European Court of Human Rights in connection with Turkey's conviction. So the Prime Minister explained it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0177par0246	Mr. Secretary, you will answer these at the speech.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0176par0247	Bedelli's been in the army three times before, he's been in the military for a short term, but I've told you the number that came in, and we have over 460,000 people now. We'll see how many people benefit from this person. It's someone else, again. It's my teacher. Onele Diamond, our Sakaryan martyr, poor, unable to pay the electric bill. This is the law that we make... that the families of poor privates and privates can be helped by municipalities, by the council order, by the decision of the city council, by the decision. There is a law that can be supported, but our municipalities don't apply. And that's because the municipalities couldn't apply it, but now we're going to use the money we're raising on this.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0178par0249	The government has welfare funds.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0179par0250	You couldn't find the money to give him?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0176par0251	Another... another...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0179par0252	So you couldn't find the money to give them?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0176par0253	Is the removal of 21 days of education a matter of conscientious denial? So we've made it very clear that we agree that everyone loves this country, but no one tells us that they love this country more than we do. We are not... our children who have died for this country. So I don't think it's right for anyone to think that you're giving something to conscientious objectors here, that you're giving them privileges.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0179par0254	Will they not then benefit or benefit?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0176par0255	There is a question: How many years will it come at a price? Of course we just did. What time did he get out? He left in '87, in his late Ozal period. What time did he get out? He's at 92. How many years has it been? Five years. He left in '99 after '92. How many years has it been? Seven. It's been 12 years since 99. Who knows the future, who knows the future? Ten years later, twenty years later, that's something else. Of course, another deputy is a temporary solution to the service of Bedelli... (E may be a solution to a social problem...)... make permanent solutions to a social problem. (Munir Kutluata also said.) Therefore, he said: "Let there be a general, permanent arrangement for military service. "
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0180par0257	Answer the questions, Mr. Secretary! Can you give the Minister a heads-up about the procedure? Mr. Secretary answers speeches, not questions.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0181par0259	That'll be answered.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0180par0260	He's responding to the speakers, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0182par0261	No, no, there are questions.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0181par0262	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has the right to answer to him, Mr. Chief of Staff should know that.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0180par0263	No, you don't!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0181par0264	Of course, he's going to answer the questions he's been asked on the stand here.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0265	Again, our other deputy had a phrase, "Will those who commit crimes benefit from this law?"
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0180par0266	The question-answering process is different from the conversation there, Mr. Elitaş. He has the right to speak with the Minister. Why isn't he answering the questions? No way!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0267	Isn't that a question? Isn't that a question? And we've made it very clear that we're going to give everyone a written answer to those who think they can't answer their question.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0180par0268	The government can take any word they want, and let it answer there.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0184par0269	The government can give any answer it wants. If you don't like it, ask me the written answer again.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0270	Another deputy asked us if those who committed the crime would benefit from this law. Those who meet the following conditions in this law... are two different issues, the ones facing criminal prosecution... what do we call this law? Those of you who have received days from the age of 30 are as...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0185par0271	So the PKK member will also benefit?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0272	Does it say on his forehead that he's from the PKK?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0185par0273	He writes, he's got prosecution, he's got an investigation, he's got a case going on. Will Cemil Bayik take advantage?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0274	Therefore, those who carry the terms of this law, those who are citizens of this country, those who carry the terms of this law, all benefit from it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0185par0275	You're taking advantage of people who shoot at soldiers! Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0276	Another asked, "How many people will benefit from this law? We say that there are about 460,000 people to benefit from, but I know those who are going to be in the military, despite the fact that they are in the position of demand based on their income at work, and I know those who are in good financial condition, and I know those who want to be in the military again. So we'll all see. Of course, Mr. Sakık would have had something to do with this medical examiner. Regarding that, Mr. Sakık, a congressman of ours asked questions, so there will be a written answer to that question. But what we want to say is that the people of this country should never die, so that the people of this country should not die. Oh, the weapon used here is already legal in the Republic of Turkey... can you walk through the mountains of Germany with a gun in your hand, in the mountains of America? You can't walk around in the mountains of Turkey! Won't the armed forces fight it, the legal forces?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0186par0279	Answer the question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0280	Thus, what they have done is a legal challenge. But we say: "Let not our people die. " Look, if the Republic of Turkey had any fear of the state...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0186par0281	The same has been done in my class. There is nothing different, the same is done in the 21st century.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0187par0282	Minister, you address the General Assembly, General Board.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0283	Another... as he said...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0188par0284	What's he gonna do with no money?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0189par0285	Congressmans, please... the Minister is answering questions.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0286	Another person may be granted the right of an officer to the chief of staff. There's already legal practice. All right, he's applying. But since there are so many demands, many institutions no longer want to apply them. Otherwise, there's no legal obstacle. Another Deputy said, "Have you received the opinion of the Chief of Staff?" Surely it is the chief of staff that is most concerned with this law. Our Chief of Staff has, of course, received his opinion, and he's very sensitive about it, and I need to know that. However, our Chief of Staff has a very clear explanation. He asked... please... he explained it to the press last time. I find another explanation necessary for our Chief of Staff's statement. [[What will CHP do with no money, Minister?]] Of course, it was a promise from the Ottoman era... that the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor. And this semester... there's a reality. But let's just say that there are people who are rich and go into the army, and there are people I know. So there's definitely no such distinction, but there is such a possibility. However, one social fact is that he's over thirty years old. That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0190par0290	Mr. Secretary, are you going to transfer aid to the municipalities? They're gonna help you? What chapters are they going to do?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0191par0291	Mr. Secretary, what's he gonna do if he doesn't have money?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0292	Another question, another explanation: how many of the MPs here will benefit from the third degree? I mean, that's a mercy. This means lowering the value of parliament, politics. You're in this, we're in this. Have we asked all the MPs how old is your son? Have we given up the first degree, the second degree, the third degree? If we did something like that, it would be wrong, so it would be rude.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0192par0293	Minister, do a survey, whose child is in those mountains?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0294	So we don't have that kind of understanding. We're setting up a general principle. Whatever citizen benefits from this general principle. Everyone takes advantage of being a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. If the congressman's son is involved in this...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0193par0295	How will the poor benefit, Mr. Secretary? Shame on the poor, isn't it?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0183par0296	Like he said, if there's a Van brother in it, he'll take advantage of it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0194par0297	You're making a rich-poor distinction.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0195par0298	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0196par0299	12 million people are below the poverty line.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0195par0300	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0196par0301	What a shame! You're embarrassing yourself.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0195par0302	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0197par0303	Another deputy asked us, and he said, "Where are the cities in which there are the most bacchanals or fugitives in the top fifteen of these baccarats?" The cities that accept the most migrations are the cities where there are the most fugitives. Where is it? The cities are Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Adana.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0198par0305	Minister, you don't understand the logic of the problem. I asked in percentages where it's registered in the military branch, percentages. I mean, what's the difference between a population of 10,000 and a population of 100,000?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0197par0306	I get it.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0199par0307	Mr. Secretary, please wrap it up. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0197par0309	Mr. Ali, when he gets here now, my friends need to do a study on this, so they're going to have to do a study on it. We're saying we're going to send this to your witness. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0199par0311	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0197par0312	Mr. President, we'll follow the deputies who haven't been given the answers, and we'll give them to everyone in writing and in writing.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0199par0314	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0200par0316	We want enough to decide before we vote.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0199par0317	I'll call. I will submit to your votes, but I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... the MPs, the decision is enough and are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF THE COUNSITION OF THE COUNCIL Article 1-21/6/1927 of Article 1111 and Article 1 of Article 1111 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 5,112 Euro (120,000 Euros), which is included in the third joke, is the second of the 7.668 euros, which is included in the third period of military training, which is held at the end of the third age, in the same order of the third degree, and the fifth one in the first order of the same article, in the first order of the first verse. The foreign currency payments paid by the government will be returned to the Turkish bank account, which they will show in accordance with the rules in the date of extradition to their trustees or heirs, if they are allowed to leave Turkish citizenship without completing payment or lose Turkish citizenship or lose military citizenship. After he completes his payment, no refunds are made to those who demand to be removed from military service by exchange, those who become unfit for military service, those who die, those who are allowed out of Turkish citizenship and those who have lost Turkish citizenship. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP who has asked on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Article. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0201par0326	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the 1st amendment to the Military Law of 82 rows. I salute your high council. According to our constitution, the military is both a duty and a right for every Turkish citizen. The constitution considers military duty a duty for the state and a right for the citizen. As a matter of fact, the military duty expressed in the Constitution is the stage in which boys are now considered individuals, citizens, adults for the Turkish community. It was considered a colorful, exciting, important part of life among Turkish men. Important decisions, such as working life, marriage, are left to post-military service. However, the changing world, the needs of society and its members, the priorities, family and special conditions that have arisen in education and employment, has pushed the military mission to second place. Now, as before, instead of going into the army and introducing your life, I'll introduce your life, and then I'll go to the army, and it'll become more common. After a while, the postponing mission brought in violations of the military, and many people became fugitives of the polls. Military service has become a barrier to many, few people in time. On the other hand, in terms of the Turkish Armed Forces, when the growing population, professional military and technology have been evaluated as factors for human replacements, the surplus has emerged a military-responsive mass. When all these issues were considered together, both the desire of our people to meet the desire to do military duty as soon as possible, and the desire to create resources to meet the needs, and the concepts of military service and military service have arisen. The Supreme Assembly under which we stand has given us the opportunity to serve at a price, in exchange for Law 3358, Law 3802, Law 4459, and Military Law 4459. Today, for the fourth time, the priced military arrangement is also on the agenda. This bill is a bill that has different aspects of the three laws that have been passed so far. The most fundamental characteristic of this bill, which has been implemented so far, is neither age nor payment, which distinguishes foreign currency from military methods. The real change is that 21 days of basic military training is being removed. That's where the trap is hidden in this bill. This is the clause of the bill, which the AKP has planned as an important instrument of PKK expansion. Without 21 days of basic training, without visiting the barracks, those who personally or through their MPs will be considered soldiers. It offends the families of martyrs and our veterans. The President of the Association of War Malulu Veterans, Martyr Widows and Orphans of Turkey says he cannot bear to be a soldier before he goes to the barracks. This bill, however, will be considered a military service without the legalisation of more than 500,000 people, with no weapons at hand, putting their hands on the Turkish flag and swearing that the Turkish country would willingly give its life for the union of the Turkish nation. It is possible to call it simply a paid conscientious rejection. What we want to know is how appropriate it is for the Constitution's 10th and 72nd Amendment to those who are discharged without 21 days of basic training. Also, those who do not receive 21 days of basic training, God forbid, what will happen to them tomorrow when they face such a situation as mobilization. Will these people also be granted an exemption for a fee in mobilization? With this clause, the price paid by our citizens abroad is increased from 7.668 euros to 10,000 euros. So the raise is being upgraded, as you call it. It should also be known that the costs for foreign military service cannot be transferred to martyrs, veterans, and disabled. This is important, since foreign currency is not limited to six months, it will be permanent. Turkey has arranged three times in the military service. The exchange is still a permanent arrangement. Turkish citizens who want to serve in both ways have earned the right by applying to military branches for the price set by the law, paying the estimated amount of currency, and applying to consulates. However, a few of them have lost their rights because they failed or failed to perform their 21 - day military service. For example, nearly 400,000 people were entitled to the 1999 price, but almost half of them did not benefit from it. Some of them have lost that right for economic reasons, while some of them are members of the PKK's terrorist organization and are made up of people who know that they will be arrested or arrested when they come to the country for basic military service. In Kandil, the bloody terrorists who live in the northern Iraqi terror camps, even in the mountains of Turkey, who have raided the outposts, mined our soldiers, killed our police, and innocent civilians, couldn't come to Turkey for fear of trial, failed to complete their basic training and thus lost their right to serve with price and exchange. This bill paves the way for the members of the terrorist organization to be able to do their military in Kandil, Mahmur, and Hakurk and Zagros in the week. The militants of the European terrorist organisation are allowed to address PKK associations instead of barracks by giving separatist speeches. It is clear that those who were expelled from the PKK, Hezbollahcı or other terrorist organizations, because they did not serve in the military, could therefore be elected to many public positions, including politics, or even be appointed. While the first article of this Bill is being discussed, the government must clarify some issues that are hoarding in public. There are no administrative and judicial investigations and prosecutions for those who are responsible for these provisions in Article 4 of Article 46, which constitutes pardon of the bill. Those who have been initiated will be terminated. 1) If these provisions of the bill are legalized, will the conviction of the baby killer as a deserter be eliminated with all its consequences? 2) Will the terrorists who give money and take it to the mountain and are still in prison and continue to be tried be elected MPs and can serve under this roof? 3) Will Şemdin Sakık, Osman Ocalan, Murat Karayilan, Duran Shield, Cemil Bayık and other killer terror leaders benefit from this law? 4) Will Hezbollah terrorists who have been evacuated and have been abroad benefit from this right? I'll give you the answer if you want. Yes, they will, because the law, for whatever reason before this, has lost its right to military service, with or without currency, meaning that it did not come to Turkey to serve 21 days of basic military service, and if it did, it was arrested and put in prison, convicted, and taken into account everyone who was expelled from citizenship. Therefore, this is not a bill of military service. I say this to our citizens, who have not been old or have been able to take advantage of this right for economic reasons in their previous cost-effective practice. This is a bill for the pardon of terrorists, murderers, murderers and criminals from military service, national debt. The government is clearing the path of the terrorist organization using the excuse of our decent and innocent citizens. If that is not thought of, then either a 21-day basic education requirement should be placed, or the right to be a member of a terrorist organization should be prevented from taking advantage of this right.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0202par0340	And while you're taking it out at a price...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0201par0341	If you're patient, you'll find out. Wait a minute. The government bill shows that the reasons for the removal of 21 days of basic education is the failure of individuals from abroad, especially to obtain permission. That's not true. All of our workers who work abroad have the right to at least 30 days a year. That's enough time for basic military service. In an atmosphere where hundreds of thousands of people eagerly await the legislation of this bill, we recommend giving up the hidden phases of the destruction project to the government. Don't expect us to contribute to the destruction project by exploiting the expectations of these people, using the High Assembly. What should be done, we think, should be first removed from the bill's Article, which rules out twenty-one days of basic military training. Thus, both the constitution of the bill and a section of our fallen families and veterans will be corrected. I salute the MPs of the great Turkish nation with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0203par0345	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Free Special, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0204par0349	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the 1st Amendment to the 82-Set Numbered Military Law. Aside from the few minutes of our speech from our parliamentary congressmen based on the understanding of democracy and the way they interpret the Civil Code, this is the first time I've spoken to the General Assembly after the swearing-in ceremony. Therefore, I wish all my fellow lawmakers success in the 24th term, and I salute the High Council, which has responded to the expectations of our citizens who sent us here, who have resolved two burning problems, such as self-respecting rights and freedoms, terrorism and unemployment, who are working to improve the social state understanding, and who are working to eliminate the inequality, and who hope to spend a time worthy of the Grand Assembly, which is chaired by the Great Commander Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'd like to address one more issue as a deputy on the mission to represent national will, as it is again the first speech before expressing my views, suggestions, and criticism. A total of two of our party's eight MPs, including the other parties and independents, are the unconditioned nation on the wall. In a parliament, each of them has received 70,000, 80,000, 100,000 votes in its districts, and I salute the valued MPs who are not present. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, remember that the body of eight lawmakers who are imprisoned in various prisons in Turkey today is not the body of eight MPs; it is the national will that is held there today. According to election results, which have been carried out in accordance with national will, the absence of eight friends to serve here means the arrest of the national will. Mr. Mustafa Balbay, our MP, who I have been elected MP from the same party -- and our friendship from the past -- and in the process of pursuing their cases -- will be arrested for a thousand days as we discuss the Military Law -- which will have reached its thousandth day just after midnight this evening. Once again, I present this to the conscience of his counterparts in the House. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When Balbay was arrested, his nine-month-old son was over four years old, and his seven-year-old daughter Rain was over ten years old. I'm talking about a father who named his son Deniz after his daughter Rain and held nothing but pencils. I'm talking about one of you who's been elected deputy by the voter of this country, and on behalf of the Republican People's Party's MPs, I salute Mr. Balbay, Mr. Haberal, and I send them a greeting and I look forward to it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, in a speech made by the Prime Minister on 19 June 2004, we will conduct with a merchant mentality, a merchant political logic. We're thinking the same thing today. But we still can't get past the blockages in the system. It's the tradesman's politics that we feel. The government has made many arrangements with this mentality, but the situation we face today proves once again how far the government can go in the trade mentality. Before the elections, the Republican People's Party presented a bill that would benefit those who have the power to do it in return for paying the price as well as those who have not been able to pay for it, and as a law proposal in the 23rd century, Mr. Prime Minister would not accept such a thing by going out in the squares and being an expert vote hunter in the election sale e-mail. Somebody's got money, somebody's got no money. Velev, even if such a suggestion passes through the House, I find it appropriate to take it to a referendum. I can't explain it to myself at a time like this when the martyr's funerals came. But today, after the June 12th elections had passed, it was purposeful, and after the votes, the crisis, which he claimed would not pass us by, even near us, has come to Turkey's gates, and has now come to the conclusion that only, and only if only the merchant is concerned about carrying out his political logic, the Prime Minister will come out and he will not be able to think of any of us, and indeed the consciences will not accept us and will surprise us all. Today, when you've just discussed all the reviews, and we've ignored all the reviews, and we've moved them from this Parliament, and eventually, the Prime Minister is in surgery, and your biggest problem is getting to the Prime Minister, the ministers, and maybe for the first time, he's watching you so closely, and he's looking at you now: let's see how, despite all the criticisms, we've transferred these materials to Congress without harming even a single inch? ... (screaming)
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0205par0360	Long live Allah!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0204par0361	I understand the psychology you're in. Even when there was even the slightest weakness at the point of securing the majority, Mr. Prime Minister was furious at the issue, so before the vote was passed, when the opposition party members wanted to check in, he saw how this turn door outside, sometimes even to catch the roll call, as someone who had seen how vital dangers of the ruling lawmakers would be at the turn of the door.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0206par0363	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0204par0364	...that you, the Prime Minister, who has been referred to this House today, expect nothing from you but to carry out this task you've been given, and...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0207par0365	Congressman, please... You will not listen to our suggestions in a situation where he will accept this as a failure.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0208par0367	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0209par0368	But I can tell you very clearly that the expectations you've made so far, we've been watching together how difficult it is to become a ruling party MP.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0210par0369	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0211par0370	Yeah, well, you can't come in there! How are you going to get there? You can't be a ruling deputy.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0209par0371	Because one day, our President gives us the start, says something good is going to happen. He says, "There's a game being watched in Armenia," and then you come to Turkey, and you don't put the flags of Azerbaijan, called one nation, two states, into the stadium in Bursa, and you make an Armenian opening. And then what happens is, there's a 360-degree turn, and you go, you call the statue that symbolizes your own Armenian-Turkish friendship, and then you rush it down until the election. You're leading the contradictions. He is a bastard who does not prove that we met with the PKK. You are pleased to say that Oslo talks were welcomed and that there is not enough response.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0212par0373	Get to the point, get to the point!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0213par0374	Hey, come to the army, soldier! Did you do your military service?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0209par0375	Now, your government, which governs these contradictions, faces a situation like this: I don't...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0214par0376	The agenda is priced!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0209par0377	I can't tell my conscience about being a soldier for a price. How do we explain this? Take this to the referendum. When the Republican People's Party offers to take advantage of the military law, which is less than 12,000 lira a month, which is less than $1,000 a month, you say no. I was in the town of 40krep in Manisa, and the villager asked me, "When we were in the army, the commanders used to make us run, and we used to scream as loud as every Turkish soldier was born!" (Laughter) Now not every Turkish soldier is born in this country, but only poor people's children are born soldiers?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0214par0380	Civilians are born! Every Turk is born a civilian!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0209par0381	I couldn't find an answer. Another said, "Be prepared for something like this, Congressman: you will meet a father, a civil servant father." This father is a civil servant, but he's gonna go somewhere, maybe he's gonna be robbing, maybe he's gonna get busted for embezzlement. A financial error will be faced by a financial error. The judge will ask him: "Why did you do this?," he will say: "I am an officer of this state. The government didn't provide me with enough income to make my child pay for military service. And since I don't have this income...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0215par0383	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0216par0384	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0217par0385	Congressmans, please take your seats.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0218par0386	Her mother had a dream, too, that this child would go to the army, but she wouldn't come back. That's exactly how much I tried to steal. Am I responsible? And I tell you, they will say: " What law do you know that you will judge him by, but in this case, what judgment will the judge make with his conscience? Can you answer that in your own conscience?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0219par0387	You're so full of shit!
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0218par0388	I'll give you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...let me make it clear that the Republican People's Party's amendment motions are very realistic...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0220par0392	Mr. Special, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0218par0393	Don't you give me a minute to add to the names of the groups?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0220par0394	I'm not, I'm not.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0218par0396	Then let me salute you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0220par0397	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0218par0398	I'll tell you this much: place your hand on your conscience, one by one, there will be amendment motions, and as a result of these amendments, go to the poor poor poor man and say to the rich...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0220par0399	Mr. Special...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0218par0400	Don't approve a bill that says you're exempt, you may not be able to express it to yourself. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0221par0403	Look, it's very wrong of you to talk like that about the Prime Minister. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0222par0405	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Murat Bozlak, MP of Adana, has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Grizzly. [[Noises]] Mr. Grizzly, here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0223par0411	Mr. President, if they shut up, I'll talk to them.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0222par0412	Mr. Grizzly, I'm rebooting your time, please.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0223par0413	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy to discuss the 1st amendment to Military Law 82. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I have listened carefully to all my friends who have spoken on behalf of the groups, taking the word of the bill. No one stands against the essence of the law. I'm against military service, this law should be withdrawn, this bill should be withdrawn. There is no one to say, but what is the objection: there is objection to the age limit, there is objection to the age limit, there is objection to 30 years of age, there is objection to 30,000 lira, and there is an objection to basic military service. This suggests that the Parliament agrees with all groups to pass the Bedelli draft law. Now, rightly speaking, both our group and our friends who are speaking on behalf of other groups have objections to some of the articles of this law, but one thing I've seen: the AKP, based on its numerical majority, has passed the proposals of law from commissions, or its proposals, or its proposals, so it's only left us to express our thoughts and to make sure that our thoughts are recorded. Now, I've studied the bill. The bill says, the reason is, "There have been three high-priced military practices before this, this is the 4th. Two of the previous three-priced military practices were brought in because of the need, which means that hundreds of thousands of young people, who have fallen into a state of care, who are on a roll call or in hiding, are unable to do military duty, and when they don't go to the army, a need arises, and in return for that need, there is a two-time application of military service. The third is to raise money. Read the reason, dear MPs. And the reason for this law is to bring in the expensive military again to raise money. Loud and clear, that's the reason. There is need. There is no need. There is no conscientious refusal in this country. As young as the young men in the army, the young are currently on the run. To fix this, we bring this bill, we bring this law. It's not called "we're going to raise money." It's called "we're going to raise money." They're making it clear where they're spending the money. Last time, it was spent on the Marmara earthquake, and now there's an earthquake in Van, but because of the Van earthquake, there's no money in the future due to the priced military. I think the AKP is acting on the logic that the government is running a company, not the government, when they bring this law. If you act with corporate logic, you act with determination on how to get the maximum money from a citizen, and then you think everyone is rich without saying the poor are poor, and you see everyone as people who get paid 14-15 thousand lira like us, you want to take it from them, you want it, you want it. So if you don't think about the worker, if you don't think about the minimum wage people, then you can keep the amount at any rate. I don't agree with that reason. Rather than that, we, as a group, think that this has become a necessity. Conscientious rejection is not recognised in our country. And as young as the young men in the army, they're not going to the army right now, they're waiting. In order to satisfy a need for a solution to their problems, our group favours this bill. Now, after I make this general determination, I would like to express my views on the first article, which I have specifically promised. The first article has three new arrangements, three changes being brought in. The first amendment is increased to 10,000 euros for foreign currency, which is 5,112 euros, and the exchange price for foreign currency, which is 7.668 euros, is also increased to 10,000 euros. The second change predicted by this article is to say, let's say, instead of the euro, let's call it the avro. It's called the change, that's what it's about. The third amendment is also required to remove basic military training. Dear friends, I'm a friend of yours with many relatives abroad. And you, of course, have been abroad, perhaps many of you are staying in luxury hotels, but when I was gone, I was a great guest in the homes of those workers. Where we're going, he works for a very low price, doesn't make millions, 1,200-1. He works for 300 euros, and most young people are unemployed, and there are very few people with jobs. If he has three rooms when he gets home, if he's sitting in one room, he turns off the electricity in two rooms. In his three-bedroom home, if he's sitting in a room, he's just opening up the furnace and not walking around, eating, drinking, sacrificing himself and trying to save 3-5 cents in sacrifice. There, imagine, a house rent is 700 euros, so wherever you go in Europe, you rent 700 euros, on average, to the worker, if he works, 500 euros. Now, we're going around saying that our brother who works abroad should give us 10,000 euros instead of the 5,112 euros he gave us. Where's he gonna get that? This guy didn't go out of his mind, he left here out of nowhere, he left because he was unemployed, he sold his property here to support his family so that he could get a job in Europe, he made himself a fare. Now, when you raise the price of 5,112 euros to 10,000 euros, we're not doing them any favors. Now, that's corporate logic. Take the money and take it however you want. The guy who's in trouble, he's devastated, it doesn't matter. There's no way that logic can be accepted. Personally, I'm troubled by my conscience. You're gonna get caught by a man who's miserable. Well, a friend of ours just told me that soldiers are born. No, no one is born from his mother, the poor are made soldiers, they are sent to the army. Therefore, there is also a motion for a change in this regard to our group, which will be submitted by our friends during the meeting of this clause. We don't think money should be raised any higher. I really don't understand the second amendment to this clause. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't say euros, we say euros.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0224par0423	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0223par0424	Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0224par0426	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly. Mehmet Mush, İstanbul MP who has asked for the EC PARTI Group to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0225par0430	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise to discuss the First Amendment of the Military Law. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to consider a few aspects of the bill, whose short name is known in public as the military service, which is on the agenda of the Supreme Assembly today. As you all know, the first in Turkey so far, the first in 1987, the second in 1992, and last in 1999, the three-time subject of military service has come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and has been approved by the Grand Assembly. Today, for the fourth time, a new bill of law has been drawn up about paying military service. The legislation adopted in 1987 and 1992 aims to block the collection of hidden balances and roll call fugitives reaching large amounts. In 1999, Law 4459 was adopted in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to contribute to the heavy losses caused by the earthquake in the Marmara region and to the removal of the damage caused by this disaster. In 1987, Bedelli took advantage of 18,433 people, 35,111 people in 1992, and 125,834 in 1999, 72,290 in total. With this bill, there will be a solution to issues that have been discussed over the years, hundreds of thousands of citizens will be able to benefit from it. I'd say hundreds of thousands, because compared to other times, the number of citizens who would benefit from paying military service today has increased by at least three times as much. Today, that number is around 460,000. In this regard, it is important that the bill meets an important social need, and that it becomes a serious stockpile of recruitment, and that it develops a solution for judicial and military institutions. First of all, along with this bill, the income from here is also being used in the field of social responsibility. And this point is very important. First of all, if you notice, the bill has its own focus on a binding expression on where the income will be used. In financing social services and relief activities will benefit the disabled, needy private and private families, as well as their Turkish Armed Forces disability and law-enforcement disability. In this way, more opportunities will be provided for our citizens, especially under the economic aid of the state, as well as many associations and foundations. It's the nation's most important debt, especially to the families of martyrs, to make them feel like they're on the side of both society and the state at all times. Therefore, this bill must also be considered a social responsibility project. In addition to this bill, the income, especially in the systematic removal of victims caused by terrorism, will make it very easy to provide more structural ease in the social area for their families, and most importantly, to provide for their needs. In addition to the social, social and economic contributions of the bill, the valued lawmakers are sure to perform a very important function for those who are still not in military service and especially for those who continue to study well, primarily as university professors. In both categories, it's easy to say that there's a number to be reckoned with. We all know that our citizens in this category have been waiting for this bill for years. A state's job is to find the most useful and fair solution to its citizens' problems, the most useful and fair solution to their citizens' problems. When we look at the bill this way, the number of people who are going to benefit from it will be very high. Rather than ignoring people's problems and demands, solving their problems is one of the most fundamental tasks of a state. The fact that the bill will also abolish 21 days of basic military training is a very important issue. In this way, professors, especially those who work abroad and who have to close their businesses at cost, will have to take a break from their work and academic studies, will also have found a solution to this issue that has been discussed at universities for years. Thus, both our citizens working abroad and their professors reaching large numbers will be able to continue their work without interruption. Therefore, it is wrong to view military service as an opportunity that only a certain percentage of society can benefit. On the contrary, a large number of people who benefit mainly from paying military service are people who have no wealth except their hard work or their small business to support their family. When they're drafted, they're in no position to replace anyone. In this case, it is certain that this bill will benefit in many ways, such as the solution to both social and emerging problems. I hereby ask that the bill be good for our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0226par0445	Thank you, Mr. Mush. It's Mr. Sefik Ugly, Hatay MP who wants to speak for himself on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0227par0449	I salute the High Council. I have made a pledge on my own behalf regarding the draft bill for the amendment of the Military Code. Dear friends, by the time this law is out, it has no longer been called the law of military service. From time to time, some friends of ours call it the "bankkamatic thesis," and from time to time they say something else, but amongst them the era of immunity has begun with a receipt that, at least, pleases the person's most. I mean, it's called "priced service." You pay the price, and you do your military service by doing at least your basic training for 21 days. Now, where's the pay-per-view in that? Someone will go to the branch, get his receipt, deposit his money, and then be called the Bedellite soldier. That's not possible. If there was, it would be an exemption. Our Dear Minister has just made a statement that one of the purposes of this law is to make peace with the state, to make peace with the citizen of the state. Now, from this point of view, yes, these priced military laws are necessary to be brought up from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time to time to time, from time to time to time to time to time, from time to time to time to time to time to make peace with those who are now in the army, who will not be able to do their military service, and who will never be able to make peace with the people who will be able to do a thousand years, in the snow, in the winter, who will never be able to make peace with the people who will be able to do their country, who will be able to take advantage of that law. Here, in person, our esteemed President, as our President-General has declared to the public, in a manner of speaking to the Parliament and to you Precious Powers, today our citizens who serve today, Mehmetçik will give them an opportunity to at least make peace with themselves, with their families, with their wives, with them, at least to pay them in certain terms, and at the same time to benefit from certain legal rights, prior to the benefits of their rights, not by those who do not do their military service. I humbly ask the Honorable Council to bring this matter up. Moreover, by this law, he will no longer serve with money. The era is over. Which era did it begin? ▪ He who has a lot of money will not serve. The era has begun, not only with money, but with a lot of money. This fee could have been kept lower, but if it was kept too high, less people would take advantage of it, and injustice would have been involved here. At the same time, there are those who have expressed their views on conscientious rejection, who have expressed their opinion, who will also benefit from it. Now, as far as we're concerned, you've created injustice on the basis of treason, or perhaps treason, in everything in this country, to protect this country, to protect this country, to protect this country, to defend its life, even amongst the conscientious objectors who seek refuge in various excuses for this country. I salute the High Council. My dear President, I salute you, too.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0228par0459	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. Now, Ali Haydar Öner, MP of Isparta who asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0229par0463	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, today we're discussing an important law, which has long been expected by society's law of price, but is expected to be passed by a law based on justice. Unfortunately, there is no such trend. The law, which the Prime Minister long opposed, was presented to the public as good news by the Prime Minister. However, the law is a law that is equipped with injustice, inequalities, and substances that hurt the conscience of society. How do I explain this, Mr. Prime Minister? I'll take it to the referendum. Who's going to defend the country? Then everyone shut up, Mr. Prime Minister. He said, "Mr. Prime Minister, he explained." The Prime Minister's law is a law made for the rich. This assembly was not created to make laws for the rich, this Parliament was not created by the Turkish nation to make laws for the rich, but to maintain justice. Now we're watching a very interesting process.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0230par0466	And you made a motion. Are you against us?
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0229par0467	Mr. Special, every time I talk, you get the answer from me! I guess you didn't settle down! You'll get your answer again! Now, our esteemed MPs, we are in such a state of lockdown that the mind, the conscience, does not accept. Now our friends, who call themselves PATITICs, raise their fingers at every conversation that comes from them, but refuse to accept any reasonable suggestions from the opposition. Just as they did not give the sentence according to the Law of the Civil Code in the criminal act of the cruel Good Samaritan. Your judgment is just. We are experiencing a process that is not followed by your command. The judge will rule with justice, and the MP will rule with justice, and the chief will rule with justice, and the chief and the commander will rule with justice. When we don't rule with justice, that clause that we raised our hand to will cause a wound to our conscience. We call him Bedelli soldier, free soldier... now he's going to pay 30,000 liras with every power and 10,000 euros on the euro. What if he can't? Our rich ones pay the price, our soldiers are from the poor. The song will continue to have a conscience. We need to be the voice of common sense, support the right suggestions. There are corrective suggestions for the Republican People's Party Group. There are appropriate suggestions from other parties. Please, let's drop the prejudices, support the right suggestions. One of them is that the poor are given the right to serve for free. Another, soldiers without boots, soldiers without guns, men without honorable uniforms? At least let him serve 21 days so he can learn what it means to be a soldier, so he can defend himself when the day comes, and join the call for mobilization. There is also one other thing: let each soldier be insured from the day he was drafted. Thus, let there be a cost-effective draft law based on justice. I thank you, all of you, for contributing to this.
tbmm-2011-11-29sit02spe0231par0476	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Proposal. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
