tbmm-2011-11-02sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Congressmans, the time has been extended since we held a meeting with the members of the group. It's for your information. The first roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now, we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Bingöl MP Eşref Taş, who asked for a statement about the terrorist act in the province of Bingol. Here you go, Mr. Stone.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0002par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I ask God's mercy on our citizens who died in a live bomb attack in the province of Bingol on 29 October 2011 and in an earthquake in our province of Van. I wish my condolences to all our nation, especially their grieving families, and immediate healing to our wounded. I wish God would show no more pain, no more grief. My dear friends, the reason I'm here today as your friend, a member of parliament representing the High Assembly, is to talk about a live bomb attack that has recently been carried out in the province of Bingol as a continuation of acts and attacks against the peace in our country, where two of our citizens have lost their lives and 21 of our citizens have been injured. As you know, Bingol is a city in which Zaza, Kurds and Turks live in peace, and this bloody act against the innocent people here has once again revealed the ugly, inhuman face of the terrorist organization. Dear members of the High Council, I'd like to present to you two examples of women. One of them is the heroic mother of Bingöl, who wants to jump on a live bomb to prevent the death of her children and other innocent people, who is the sun of compassion, love, and compassion. This blessed mother wanted her children to live, to read, to grow up to be a man, and she had nothing else to worry about. What about the other one? The other is a monsterized woman who pulls the pin on people she doesn't know, people she's never met in her life, children, women, to kill her. Unfortunately, she's a woman, who blew up the bomb she was carrying and ended three lives, including herself. On one hand, mother's love, compassion, anger and hatred. In this case, all those who are Turkish and Kurd and human are clear, they are love and mercy. Dear lawmakers, these people, who have been in the region together for years and have been ruled by fear, have not received any tangible investments or services before the EC PARTY period. With the AK PARTY period, these fears are somewhat over and there is hope in the region, while again exciting investments in the region hinder services that can be done to our province and to the entire region. The most concrete example of this is the construction site of the Bingol Airport and the burning of the construction site on the Bingöl-Diyarbakir road, the abduction of the employees of the construction site along the way to Bingöl-Erzurum. Dear lawmakers, these actions and attacks targeting the innocent people of Zaza or Kurds in the region have once again shown that the aim of the terrorist organization is not to achieve peace, freedom, prosperity, security, or happiness of the Kurdish people; on the contrary, it is to achieve its own goals using the blood, life, and peace of the people of the region, and the rights that have been exploited so far, but our people have never been in this game, nor will they come. We are all people of the same spirit and meaning climate as 780,000 square miles [780,000 km]. Despite those who tried to replace it, despite the racists, the separatists, the separatists, this country has revealed this nation's brotherhood, not with words and envy, but with the brotherhood that really lives in essence. Congressmans, there may be people in our region who want to mortgage the people's will by implementing the idea of a regime of oppression over the people. These people can't see where the world is going. I'm here to tell you, a democracy like this...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Stone.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0002par0029	Give me a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0003par0030	We don't extend; it's our practice, Mr. Stone. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0002par0032	Well, I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0003par0034	The second word outside the agenda belongs to Isparta MP Sulejman Nevzat Korkmaz, who wants to speak about the unappointed teachers. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0004par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. At the beginning of my words, I wish God's mercy to all our teachers who died in the Van Ercish earthquake, and to those who were injured, and to those who were injured, an urgent cure. As the National Movement Party, I'd like to point out that I've also invited the government to make a change in legislation regarding the salary of the 45 interns we lost in the earthquake to the rest of them. Dear lawmakers, the young population is an important advantage for countries. But if you separate resources from your budget, deliver services, create jobs, yes, it's an advantage. Otherwise, social unrest and confusion are waiting for you. Not to mention anger and resentment towards the country and its people, who look forward to the future. That's what it's like to have young teachers who've gone through college entrance tests, who've passed their classes, who've passed their classes day by night, who've been able to qualify for KPSS and teaching exams, who've been left out of work, out of despair, out of service. The AKP, which raised the number of unemployed teachers from 60,000 to 300,000 during their rule, would you please explain to our beloved nation where we came from? We jump, we jump. Hang on a little longer. The goal of the AKP (AKP) is to create, I think, 1 million unemployed teachers. This is the Turkey the Prime Minister boasts of. It's a country where unemployed graduates go through the roof, where even graduates of education have agreed to be a cheap labor force, but they can't get jobs. But what the Prime Minister said was that at the 2002 Izmir rally, there were 72,000 teachers in the country when they asked for votes. You're auditioning teachers. Let the teachers pick a school. Why are you standing in his way? When we get there, we'll get them all to work. Or, 2002 Gaziantep rally: Yahu, a lot of your department teachers are idle, art teacher goes to math, music teacher gym. Why? He needs a teacher. And they're taking a teacher on the test. Isn't it a shame about these students? If you're not going to buy it, they shouldn't read it. When we were in power, he said, "Hopefully, there won't be a teacher's candidate on the loose." Right, Mr. Prime Minister, we're not saying anything different, so keep your word. If you don't, you'll say, "Our promise is a bond." When I say, "Our promise is a bond." I'm joking, it was when he asked for votes in the squares." Sir, we don't have to make every faculty graduate a teacher after you get the votes. The cabinet's friends must have kept up with him, as former Minister Chubukçuk promises 55,000 teachers before the elections, and today's Minister is embarrassed to make amends, publicly, to apologize for the appointment of 11,000 teachers after the elections. However, it's not possible to eliminate the destruction created by the credibility of the state, especially to bring back 22 suicide candidates, to be able to address the problems of unemployed teachers. Dear lawmakers, we need 200,000 teachers with the Ministry's testimony. The need is not only in villages or in less developed parts of our country, but even in the capital, there is a lack of teachers. Classes are 50 to 60 people. Our most important task is education. The main task of any government that can call it is to meet the need without wasting time. What's an education without a teacher, dear friends? You are also obliged to comply with the rights of current assignments. Anyone with a little fear of God knows that injustice cannot be overcome. There are thousands of faculty graduates and thousands of teachers who have been assigned to your party just because it's close to the AKP Powers. The school they finished had nothing to do with the education industry, only the AKP agencies gave them their references. That's why they don't hire staff teachers, to hire the men they want. Honourable lawmakers, it's almost like a gangrenous wound that angers our young people in their state that needs to be healed and appointed immediately. We're followers of the National Movement Party of this issue to the end, and we're prepared to support any solution. Young teacher candidates don't want much; they want to work, produce, and serve their country with their hard work, knowledge and sweat. How quickly did you forget the days when you asked the young people to vote for the AKP because we laugh at the same bond in the squares. Listen to the flowers of this land. He says, "I salute your high council."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0005par0047	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. National Education Minister Omar Dinçer will respond to the non-responsive speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0006par0051	Mr. President, dear friends, as I begin my words, I salute you with love and respect. My dear friends, I'd like to brief you on the issues that our friend here has just expressed off the agenda. First, without sharing my thoughts on the matter, I'd like to present to you the photograph we're in. From 2003 to today, our governments in Turkey have received as many teachers as possible -- the yearly average. From 2003 to this time, the number of teachers was approximately 300,000. Compared to the past few years, we have to say that the number of teachers received is too good to be compared to there. In return, the number of classes has been compared as a student and has been made to an incredible amount of improvements. Indeed, in previous years, in the years leading up to 2002, the average number of 60 people in our class, 65, has been reduced to about 31 people on average today. While all of this is being done, there has also been an increase in schooling rates. So let's say, in 2002, the schooling rate at primary school in Turkey was around 92 percent, 93 per cent, while the number of students per class was around 60-65, while the number of students now increased to 98.5 per cent in elementary school, although the average number of students dropped to 31. In secondary school, the schooling rate, around 58-60 per cent, is now up to 69%. The number of students per class has also risen to 69 per cent, although the number of students per class has been reduced to 29. If the increase in 1 point schooling is assumed to be equivalent to 120,000 students in primary school and 50,000 students in secondary school, the magnitude of success will be revealed. And I'd like to give you some numbers and draw you some pictures on the teacher situation we're in. First of all, as of today, there are approximately 660,000 staff teachers in our Ministry. In addition, we're employing about 60,000 teachers this year. If we had filled out our entire staff this year and attempted to teach with our staffed teachers, we would have had to get about 40,000 additional teachers when all 60,000 teachers were reduced by the mandatory period. So, if the Ministry of National Education today tries to recruit teachers based on current schooling rates, it will provide the need for teachers in the event of hiring around 40,000 teachers. But even so, we, the government, we need about 150,000 teachers in our primary education rates, 100 percent in our accounts that we may not include in the previous years, 100 percent in pre-school rates, and eventually in middle school as a target of up to 90 per cent, if we are to achieve these goals. He'll be 150,000 teachers after a hypothetical. At present, we face two kinds of problems outside: the number of teachers who are waiting for teachers is not necessarily known, but about 220,000. So, in exchange for the people waiting for 220 thousand teachers, if your teacher wasn't that much, even if all the teachers' staffs had been promised, we'd still be dealing with people who would still be waiting to teach, even though they had graduated from college. I've never been the person who blamed our young friends who were waiting for a teacher or saw that they lack anything in it, and I never will be. They're 100% right about their demands. It's about the way our teachers look at the matter, and we're standing in a basket that will understand them. I know this is a systemic problem. If it's a systemic problem, it's not just a problem that arises in our time of power. I think it's necessary to see Turkey as a consequence of human resources planning that it hasn't actually done since the 1960s, and we're trying to do that now. Especially for our teachers, we're also preparing for the planning of teacher resources, and we'll also set up a department in our ministry. From this point of view, after our preparations, we are working on a strategy in the coming years that will determine how many teachers we need in the short, medium and long term period. More importantly, we've already started sharing information with the public, especially right after I became the minister. For example, at least in a more open and transparent manner towards our students and society, we announced what areas we needed teachers, and we warned our students, our college candidates, that they shouldn't choose to teach in areas we don't need. From now on, we'll continue to do this more systematically and permanently. There's a second problem for our friends out there waiting for the teaching staff: See, in August, we recruited about 11,500 teachers. Although we have announced about 11,500 casts from these teachers, there are about 45 openings left. The reason was that there were no teachers in the areas we needed. Today, when there are many chemistry teachers, physics teachers, math teachers, perhaps, we, the Ministry of National Education, need more teachers about class teachers, guidance and counseling, teachers about certain art courses. We shared these needs with the public. From that point of view, it's pretty clear that if we open the staff today, if we advertise the teachers we need, we'll still have trouble filling them. If you are facing an environment of dissension and greater demand than need, then it is clear that we need to bring a different perspective on the issue of teachers.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0007par0058	Minister, isn't it because of you?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0006par0059	I'm particularly asking our friends... if the teacher issue is actually a tactic used to corner the government... it's not going to work because the community knows about this photo... but if it's being brought up as a matter of teachers... then this time it means exploiting the feelings of our young people. So instead of provoking them, exploiting their emotions, I feel the opposite is taking more strategic measures to lead them to new professions in line with their abilities. I've made that perfectly clear, and I'll keep saying it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0007par0060	Who's gonna do it?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0006par0061	Of course we're gonna do it, and you guys are gonna back me up.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0007par0062	How many kids have graduated from colleges in the last decade, Mr. Secretary? What's the number of kids who've graduated from school in the last ten years?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0008par0063	Congressman, please don't talk to me. Mr. Secretary, would you please address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0009par0065	Friends, this is a matter that we, as a whole, can solve. We're just going to lead this, of course, and we're going to create a solid and valid strategy, but we're going to realize that it's a national problem and a systemic problem that all of us have to solve together. The second issue that I'm going to go over is that there was another issue here yesterday that was discussed in non-responsive conversations about the information of student parents, and I think it was brought up here with misinformation and misinformation. What is said about the work done by a system set out to be done, I think, seems to have been discussed without very good research. We are prepared to inform the parents of the situation of our students. We've created a computational infrastructure for this. But that information is information that only the student's guardian can access with the password given to him. In that respect, if a parent wants to follow his own child's continuation, see his grades, or access any other information that the Ministry of National Education can give him, he can only get information from a portal where the guardian can access it with his own password, only from his student and guardian. Other than that, the matter of informing the student guardian, which is referred to as VALEY, I believe, was discussed by being contacted by the Ministry of National Education. This has previously been built on the cover story of a website. Because that's what we wrote and sent him the articles that rebutted the website and warned all the members of our Ministry. It's a program that has nothing to do with us. A private company claims it will give parents some information in exchange for another subscription through a program that it has prepared, and it has nothing to do with the Ministry of National Education. As I've made it very clear, friends, please check your e-mails and text messages again today. We've sent more detailed details to the e-mail addresses each of you gave us, and we'll try to get them back to you systematically in matters related to the Ministry of National Education. Dear friends, on this occasion again, I would like to brief you on the practices that we've been practicing so far because of the earthquake. You know, the thing about Van's earthquake that may have been the most injured and has really left us with a deep pain is that the education community is more victimized and sad than that. So far, unfortunately, we've lost about 74 teachers, we've got about 16 injured teachers, and a few teachers that we still haven't heard from. Did they go to their province, or did we not find out where they were? Of course, it's been a real pain for us. This is where I express to you that we teachers will never be forgotten and cherish the memories of our young, selfless teachers there. Sure, but...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0010par0071	Mr. Secretary, all the teachers died in the same place, in the same building.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0009par0072	Yeah. The reason why our teachers lose so much depends on two factors. One of them, our teachers were all in a cafe together, about the collapse of the building where the cafe was. You know, we had a training seminar in Ercish that day, and we had teachers from nearby provinces and villages who came to the training seminar. After the seminar ended, our teachers went to that cafe, where they were chatting, and the earthquake caught them. The second reason was because of the collapse of an apartment building where our teachers were so dense. The apartment wasn't a residence or a place for teachers to stay, a private apartment. Our teachers mostly settled in the private apartment, mostly as tenants. So there was an impact from the collapse of that building. Of course, these influences have touched us deeply. Very dear friends, I went with our Prime Minister to Van ▪ that night, just after the earthquake, and we tried to see a general photograph, until that day, and we watched the events, and we arrived at every one of the buildings that had been destroyed. I met with a group of our teachers that day. That night -- I also broke up with our Prime Minister -- with the guidance of our teachers that night, we made our findings regarding the whereabouts of those teachers, and after I took out the general photo, I returned that night. Soon thereafter, along with an expert team of approximately 37 people, we traveled through all our schools in Van Nah, one by one in three days, and we did damage assessments of each of the schools, and we reported it. After these reports, we found that one of our schools was completely destroyed, and about 14 of our schools were no longer able to train, and it was severely damaged. The measures and preparations have been made. The rest of us -- we have 446 schools in that region -- are almost ready to train at 446 schools, so there's no big problem there. So all our work on getting those schools ready for education has been completed, and believe me, we've even made their tender. As of October 26th, the procedures for the completion of the cracks and so-called problems of these schools, the completion of electrical, water-related operations, have been completed and tenders have been made. We work with all our strength, November 14th, to prepare all our schools for education, day and night. So, maybe, we've been working so hard that we haven't had a lot of time or opportunity to inform the media or you. But we've done our duty as the fastest working, most profitable team in history. In five or six days, no other agency has been able to make the tender yet. More importantly, right now, there are places for all of our teachers, whether they're victims of an earthquake or not, who can't get into their homes. A lot of them were ordered as containers. Again, by November 14th, we're also trying to prepare the locations of our teachers. We're trying to set up as many places as possible, as many places as possible. As much as we can, when they arrive on November 14th -- most of them now in their homeland -- we try to give them containers where they can stay. Also, we have assigned to our teachers, the 40 apartments that Van had been completed, which the Public Housing Authority had built, and they will be able to use it. Beyond that, starting on November 14th, we've made a very intense preparation for psychological support and rehabilitation, waiting for the time to come. Also, maybe -- they've interpreted it as compensation in some places, but it's never -- in the efforts of our National Education Foundation, to support each of our teachers, the families of our teachers who lost their lives, our teachers who were injured, not all of them, only those who lost their lives and those who were injured before the holidays.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0011par0081	Does the Ministry of National Education have an organic connection to this Foundation, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0009par0082	Sir?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0011par0083	Do you have an organic connection to this Foundation? I mean, the teachers or the national education community...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0012par0084	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0009par0085	Friends, the National Education Foundation has made this decision of its own free will and shared it with us. So we went public on their behalf.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0013par0086	Do you think you'll give it to him?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0009par0087	So around 10,000 Turkish liras, they will provide support for these teachers ahead of the holidays. We've got all their infrastructure. Probably today, and tomorrow, they'll be recorded with those numbers we promised their accounts. Beyond that, as the Ministry, we, many of our teachers, because they've just started a very new job, don't have a chance to take advantage of the social security system. Hence, we are looking for help and support through another legal arrangement. If such an opportunity arises, we hope to support and use it for our teachers. Other than that, dear friends, we've also divided our students into three groups in schools where we can no longer study, so that our children's education can't fail now. One, we've looked at this as to whether it's possible for them to distribute in the nearest schools where they can study. If that is possible, we will try to make up for it either by converting education into bilateral education or by increasing the number of students in the classroom. If there's no school nearby, we'll try to get those students back to the nearest schools with the carry-on system. If we can't figure this out -- which is partially unsolvable -- we've made preparations for the construction of at least eight classes of prefabricated schools, three or four schools. We've come to the point where we can put them into practice soon. We, with all our strength, work for our teachers both for our students and for the physical infrastructure and try to prepare for November 14th. This, of course, may have been some operational failures in such a busy time, sometimes there may be shortcomings or delays, but believe me, we're working with all our strength to solve these problems. Even your sincere support alone will give us great power. During this busy and cramped period, it will be our greatest wish to be forgiven for minor errors or to be reminded of shortcomings. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0014par0093	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sebahat Tucson, who wants to talk about violence against women. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0015par0098	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise of violence against the woman. I salute you all. Indeed, violence against women in both Turkey and Turkey has now become a massacre, but this is most likely happening in Turkey. It's not every day that we don't witness a woman's murder, not to mention a woman who's been murdered, molested, raped. It's the truth of Turkey, and it's the responsibility here. In fact, today's picture shows what level Turkey is on. In advanced societies, you're looking at violence, especially in societies where the equality of women and men is achieved, very low. For example, the average 3 per cent in European countries is in the average 38 per cent in Turkey. Even this painting shows it. Of course, equality policy here is an important issue. In this country, the Prime Minister says that one of the fundamental forces of the government, representing the government, is that he doesn't believe in equality between women and men at every turn, and how many women should have children at every turn, and women are trying to put it on a scientific basis. Even that clears up the violence on her. Again, he emphasizes how women will dress and how women will not think about it. This is a picture of Turkey. Such democratisation, human rights and freedoms are not possible for Turkey to reach a higher level. Especially here, whatever politics there are in Parliament, not just women, but men are supposed to be more than parties about violence against women. A decision made in Turkey today, Supreme Court 14. Everyone's saying that the apartment has rebelled against its decision, N. C. His case. N. C. He's grown up. This trial was filed in 2003, and Mardin district court N. He decided that D.C. was with 26 men of his own free will, and he gave the punishment at the bottom of the border. And now the Supreme Court has confirmed it. I think one sentence is important: we did it according to the old law. That's the problem with Turkey, there's still the old mentality. The male-dominated mentality works according to the basis of this society, which is Parliament, and so does the social structure, and unfortunately, state institutions work accordingly. I told you before on this bench, last semester, our home is Anatolian, but Congress is full of fathers. That's the way it is in society, always, everywhere, men's politics is valid, and decisions are made based on it. Now, Mr. Minister Fatma Şahin wishes he were here, he says: "We object to that. My conscience doesn't agree. We will immediately change TCK's 102 and 103. Mr. Secretary, last semester we offered the law on this issue, but you didn't even bring it up. You've been in power since 2002, this case has been held since 2003, and you knew there was such a situation, why didn't you do it? Now that I'm here, I object, my conscience doesn't agree. The matter is not very acceptable. Again, the question of the Siirt: if your conscience doesn't agree, let's settle this Siirt matter. What is the result of sexual harassment in the YIBOs? Still assistant principal Fahrettin Lamb is on the loose. When it comes to Kurds, when it comes to democratic forces, they work so fast that everyone's in custody. He can't even find this Fahrettin Lamb, who went to Datça and detained Ragıp Zarakolu. How's that? He doesn't want to find it. It's also a protection. Now there are things that need to be done about it. The other thing is, of course, we can't talk about all this in five minutes, Congressman, but this place is everybody's responsibility. Now, the government is drafting a bill for violence against women. We're congratulating him, he's fine, but it's like he's smuggling from a fire, not arguing with women's organizations, not sharing it with political parties. This must be removed; yes, but this must be developed, especially by co-organizing women's organisations in the process. Otherwise, it's not enough to get results. Another issue is not enough to make changes in Law 4320 alone. For example, there are arrangements for other ministries that have been envisioned in this proposal of the law, but it doesn't mean anything when the ministries don't consider it. Thus, we also feel that when Law 4320 is being organised, the situation of the ministries must be adapted. The main problem with violence against women is that Turkey has become a massacre, and the lawmakers here shouldn't at least be partners in this massacre. She's not supposed to be involved in child molestation, rape. And for that to happen, not only do I have to throw it to the women, but the whole Parliament has to work on it immediately... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0016par0111	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0015par0112	Okay.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0017par0114	Mr. President, the Minister, who just spoke on the stand, has used distorted statements about our President of the Group. The Prime Minister said in his own words, "Man and woman are not equal."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0015par0115	He's telling me.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0018par0116	Are we not going to say what he said, Mr. Elistash?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0019par0117	Wait... what did he say?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0020par0118	...about three children in a twisted way. If you'll excuse us, Mrs. Öznur Çýk will inform us on the matter on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0021par0120	The Prime Minister says that every chance he gets!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0022par0121	It's against the rules, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0023par0122	Mr. Elitaş, what you said already has been filed. Of course, when the MPs are on the stand here, they'll be critical. It's not all words or criticism...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0024par0123	President, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0025par0124	Mr. President, Speaker, do you know what our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0023par0125	You've already explained the matter, Mr. Elitaş, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0026par0126	Mr. President, a government issue is not about the AKP Group, let it be if the ministers are responding.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0025par0127	But Mr. President, our Group President has no right to mislead the public by twisting the testimony he's saying. In order to correct the illusion, on behalf of our group, Mr. Oznur Çuk, two minutes...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0023par0128	Would you please sit down...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0027par0129	There's no such deception, the Prime Minister says it everywhere!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0028par0130	Mr. President, they've explained it themselves, it's enough.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0029par0131	Then, Mr. President, I have a brief request for 60.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0030par0132	I'll explain it to you, whether or not you're promised in non-responsibility conversations, or not, we're going to go into that now, Mr. Congressman, please sit down. Mr. Önal, Mr. Balüken, Mr. Sakık, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Türkkan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Şandır, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Specci, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Bayuttutan, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Erdemir have requested a statement. Congressmans, this is off the agenda. On October 15, 2009, again, after extracurricular talks have been made, Mr. Akkuş, Mr. Akkuş, Mr. Erdoğan, you have a request for non-responsive talks, but Article 59 of the Charter is open, the most 3 people can be made a promise of non-responsibility. That's what we said in our first day's session that we're going to do it this way from now on. It says Mr. President. Members of parliament, the fourth joke of the Article 60 of the Interior Charter is that the member may be allowed to speak at the President's place. It is the clear decree of the Civil Code, where the President has the power to appreciate it. The Civil Charter is considered to be a confirmation of the issues on the agenda and who will speak out of the agenda. According to Article 59 of the Civil Code, it has been estimated that in extraordinary and urgent circumstances necessary for the announcement of the Parliamentary General Assembly, the President could most promise three people not to exceed five minutes each, and the government could respond to these talks. Thus, promises made according to this clause are given at the highest limit and on matters already appreciated as an extraordinary state of haste. During talks at the General Assembly, promises to speak off-the-tops both extend the sentence of Article 59, contrary to the content of Article 59, and lead to the use of the 60th article outside the scope of its purpose. Therefore, the use of this joke is imperatively exceptional. Thus, it may be possible to separate the issues on the agenda for more time to be discussed. For these reasons, I would like to inform you that I cannot meet the demands of a short word, according to Article 60 of the Civil Code, after extracurricular talks.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0031par0138	Mr. President, when are the members going to speak?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0030par0139	It's in the bylaws, Congressman. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's history is full of unsolved political murders. The state has never solved the secret of any political murder, and Turkey has finally become a graveyard of unsolved political killings. In 1948, the murder of writer Sabattin Ali, who started trucking out of all business due to constant monitoring, while trying to cross over the Cırklareli to Bulgaria, remains unrecognised, and his grave remains unresolved. From the middle of the 1970s, society was divided right and left from the center. The whole country was covered in blood. People were shot to death in the street every day. In such a dark, foggy, chaotic environment, the founder and first President of the DİSK, Kemal Türkler, who dedicated his life to the working class, was killed in his car with bullets from the guns of three murderers, after leaving his home on the morning of July 22, 1980. On April 14, 2003, the court ruled that Ünal Osmanoglu be acquitted for lack of evidence, Supreme Court 9. His apartment violated his acquittal. On July 30, 2009, the court chaired by Ali Soldier Kazakh insisted on an acquittal. Supreme Court 9. Her apartment broke the decision again. When the court resisted, the case went to the Supreme Court. The General Assembly decided for certain that the original perpetrator was Ünal Osmanoglu and sent the case to court for conviction. On July 21, 2010, the court's president postponed the hearing until September 23, 2010, on the grounds that the report that the defendant Osmanoglu had been disturbed. On September 23, Court President Ali Soldier Kazakh's request to withdraw from the case, Bakırköy 3. Rejected by the High Criminal Court. President Ali Soldier Kazakh "I can't agree with the decision to break." he did not attend the trial. The court judge entered the hearing and postponed the hearing until October 21, 2010. On October 21st, Ali didn't attend the trial because Soldier Kazakh was on leave, and the case was postponed until December 1, 2010. The case against the accused, Ünal Osmanakaoğlu, was dismissed on December 1, 2010 due to a statute of limitations. How sad it was that Kemal Turks' murder case ended in a statute of limitations for interesting reasons, when his daughter Nilgun Soydan, the daughter of Kemal Turks, came out of court today and said, "I hate my country." As long as there are no doubts about political killings in society, Kemal Turks' murder will remain a clear wound to Turkey's public conscience, such as all other unsolved political murders. At the present stage, the government should not be a spectator of unsolved political murders, but investigate events with a new understanding. Today, the dark areas of Turkey's past need to be lit, and darkness needs to be illuminated. The light that sheds light on the dark zones is undoubtedly the representative of the national will, TBM. It is the historical duty of the Democratic Law government to find the answer to questions concerning unsolved murders. That's why they established a research commission at the TBM in the first place, in the first place, Writer Sabattin Ali, Prosecutor Doğan Öz, journalist Abdi silksmith, writer Umit Kaftancıoğlu, Unionist Kemal Türkler, journalist-writer Uğur Mumcu, Prof. Dr. Muammar Aksoy, Assoc. Dr. Bahriye Threeok, musician Nesimi, poet Metin Altiok, journalist Metin Göktepe, journalist Cihan Nosevener, Cevat Yurdakul, Musa Anter, Ahmet Taner Barrackalı, Necip Hablemitoglu, Behcet Aysan, Hasret Gültekin, Turan Dursun, Joy Özgüner and Cavit Orhan Tutan Dinkngil are the prerequisite for the development of our democracy, with all the perpetrators placed on the table of political murders from A to Z, one by one by one by one by one by one by one. Because a research commission at the TBM will be able to access information and documents on the unsolved events. The Commission may also trigger the illumination of the recent history of political killings, most of which are still unsolved, as it has the ability to raise a whole look at the issue by gathering the documents in a single pool in the archives of different departments of the state today, raising questions to the authorities of that period in light of that period. In order to release our children from a democratic Turkey with no history of unsolved political killings, to investigate all the events before and after the political killings, to uncover the organization behind the killings, to illuminate the darkness, the Constitution 98th. Article 104 of Introduction. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully request and demand the establishment of the House Research Commission. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] [[Manisa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Eskişehir]] 6) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 7) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Adıyaman]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 16) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Reza Mahmut Çürmen [[İzmir]] 20) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] 25) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our Constitution is 61. The first sentence of the article was "the state, the war and duty protect the widows and orphans of its martyrs, the mauls and veterans, and provide a life level for them in society." The harp and duty of its martyrs and widows and orphans is our priority as a nation and state, to correct the conditions of the lives of the veterans, to solve social, economic, and health problems, to satisfy feelings of disintegration, to maintain an honorable life. The country must take care of them as they take care of our country. We don't even have a healthy database in our country that determines the distribution of martyr-gaz-harp and duty disability based on its institutions. We don't even know the exact numbers. And it's wrong to think of our people as numbers. Each one of them has a different, heroic story, but it's just as tragic. Their experiences, feelings, and problems are sensitive issues. It is not a coincidence that both the Ottoman state and those who founded the Republic of Turkey carry the Veteran title. Those veterans have built these Turkish states by giving thousands of martyrs and provided tens of thousands of martyrs and veterans. And today, unfortunately, we continue to offer martyrs and veterans every day to protect the sacred land, our independence, the fight against terrorism, our nation's trust and peace. We've given 50 martyrs in the last month alone. In our country, we have the War of Independence, the Korean War, the Operation Peace of Cyprus, and finally the martyrs and veterans of the fight against terrorism. In addition to law enforcement, many of our public servants, such as teachers, judges, prosecutors, doctors, nurses, have lost their lives as victims of terrorism or have been injured. They've only been given the title "decent." For the sake of our nation's indivisible integrity, independence and support, tens of thousands of soldiers, police and public officials have been martyrs, veterans and duty in the fight against separatist terrorism that has lasted for many years. Families have lost their most valuable assets, their children, their spouse, their father, their brother, their brother, their country, and our veterans have lost their health, their body integrity. It is our duty, our duty, to show our fellow heroes the respect they deserve as a nation, honor them, provide them with social security, provide them with the decent and good living standards they deserve. The state provides health benefits for our martyrs' families and veterans with cash compensation and salary. In addition to these solutions under the social security system, the aim is to provide the families of martyrs with jobs for their veterans and duty disability, housing loans, free utilisation of public transportation and educational priorities. However, there have been many problems in these matters, and everyone knows it. For reasons such as martyrs, veterans, veterans, military and duty-related property legislation, bureaucratic mistakes, lack of salaries, lack of legal support, poor health care, these heroic and saintly people and their families fail to reach the standard of living in society, which they deserve. What comes out is that what's done isn't good enough. While there is a Veteran Ministry running vet jobs in developed countries, there is no institutionalized mechanism, not in our country, but in a state-run ministry, which is in such a warm geography. As it is clear to the media from recent terrorist events that have often been reflected in the media, the families and veterans face many problems, and as a nation, we all feel that we can't fully fulfill our debt to these saintly people. These problems, which deal with a large population from the fact of terror in the critical geography that we live in, seem to grow as an avalanche over the years. With these facts, it is the 98th anniversary of the Constitution in order to determine the problems of the families of martyrs, veterans, war and duty disability, and to determine the proposals for solutions. And your index is 104. And 105. I respectfully submit to the opening of a Parliamentary Research under the terms of the articles. 12.07.2011 [[Ardahan]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Eskişehir]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] 12) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 13) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 16) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 21) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Citizens who have been retired for years, paying premiums in Turkey, are trying to live in poverty. 41 per cent of pensioners need to work to earn a living, according to the "Earth Economics Investigation Index 2011" report by the Building Credit Retirement. 16% of pensioners are looking for work. The 2009 "Earth Economic Index Research has increased the number of pensioners still living active working life in 2011, compared to 2009. The increase is caused by the 55-59-year-old group and especially by women. According to the report repeated to determine the working and social security situation of the population over 55 years of age, about 33 per cent of pensioners have been working or still working for a while since retirement. Retired pensioners work on average after six years of retirement. According to the report, 44% of pensioners are unhappy with their lives. The main reason for this is financial difficulties. He's been neglecting pensioners who are struggling to make a living since the day they came into office. The AKP is only raising power to pension by TÜFE. The AKP, which annulled the pensioner's share of national income with a amendment, increased the revenue gap between employees and pensioners. The AKP has not passed its ruling law, even though they promised it. As there are pensioners in Turkey who pay less, there are pensioners who receive very little, even though they pay a lot of bonuses. There are also salary differences between the SSC, the Retirement Ark, and the Bond-Kurk pensioners combined under the roof of the SGK. The AKP's government also cut off health care for the unmarried daughter of a pensioner over 18 years old. Our Constitution is 98, with the aim of identifying, uncovering, and resolving pensioners' problems. Article 104 of our content. And 105. By establishing a Research Commission according to the requirements of the matter, we respectfully submit the investigation of the matter in all its dimensions. [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Tunceli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] 16) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] 25) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0032par0319	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0030par0320	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0032par0323	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement here. You've just made an assessment of off-the-tops talks, but I'd like the MPs to know about one thing. On the speech of Mr. Minister about the earthquake, we also had a say in the group, last October 25, 2011, Tuesday. In my speech here, one of the local homes... is built in Pakistan. When I say, "Where are these decent houses?" I say, "We don't know." The Deputy Prime Minister also told Parliament about the homes of a friend of ours. At the moment, the local homes were not considered available because it was colder, or there are 3,000 ready, but there is an expert opinion that the winter-resistant tent would be more suitable, not something I would know, but our Minister of Urbanism is working on it. So the house of the Lord will not be used here. Deputy Prime Minister in charge of disasters says so in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister, in his October 30, 2011 address to the nation, says: "Let all our citizens be welcome. All the resources of our government are in the service of our people. We will move from the temporary tent city, and from the dwellings of the people, and from the container cities to permanent dwellings. Now, a Deputy Prime Minister says: "There will be no homes, no proper, technically, we will not use them." He says, "Mr. Prime Minister, we will use them." We also see on TV that some of the local homes are being used. So if a Deputy Prime Minister is giving such false information in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who are we going to honor or whose word should the MPs take credit for?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0033par0328	Mr. Vural, the matter is understood, explained by the concerned.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0032par0329	I wanted to express that contradiction. In that respect, I urge the ministers to give accurate information when giving information.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0033par0331	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and vote on. 02.11.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday, 02,11,2011 (today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Charter. The meeting of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Agenda of National Assembly (about the privatisation of Sugar Factory) (about the Privatisation of the General Assembly's General Assembly, was proposed to be held on Wednesday (January 02,11,2011). In favor of the Republican People's Party's proposal, Alim Ilk is a member of the Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0034par0347	Mr. President, the motion maker needs to speak. We called it in.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0035par0348	His own suggestions.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0036par0349	Let the motioner speak first, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0037par0350	Yes, Mr. Tarhan. Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0038par0354	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I'd like to present to you by the President of the Privatisation Administration... my opinion on the sale of ten sugar mills. I hereby salute you with respect, with love. My dear friends, the 10 sugar factories, including Malatya, will be sold by the AKP government on 11 November. Privatisation is a total demolition project for these provinces. This privatisation must definitely be abandoned. The court had previously cancelled privatisation of these factories. Reselling sugar factories is a violation of the law. What has changed in the process that the AKP has decided to sell again? Why would he want to sell the candy that the DA canceled, the one that all the public opposes? Because that's what the forces that they can't get out of their mouths command. Turkey, which has been away from agriculture and animalism day after day, will withdraw its hands from sugar production, whose contribution to the economy is undisputed. Turkey's agricultural sector is becoming increasingly dependent on the outside. No agricultural decision is for the benefit of the peasant, producer, Turkey, international capital and sovereign forces. The AKP's government once again demonstrates its unconditional submission to international forces' demands through sugar privatisation. The AKP has left our producers without a home; it has completely turned its back on agriculture; it has destroyed our farmer. The AKP has not only acted in this privatisation, but has previously abandoned its people and carried out the demands of imperial forces. Even privatisation of the monopoly's liquor department alone can reveal AKP's mentality. In 2003, the government sold the Tequila DUI section for $292 million, the same company sold for $2.1 billion this year. So our country, our people, has damaged 10 times, 2 billion dollars. Who profited, dear friends? And you all know very well who's making a profit. Not only was the liquor department of the monopoly sold to very funny numbers, but the cigarette department also sold to someone else. I sell the monopoly like a father. The Finance Minister of that period sold the monopoly as well as the monopoly as the father of his son and helped sell more corn to a company. The goal of privatisation in modern countries is to increase employment, economic efficiency and lower prices. However, no privatisation during the AKP era has met those conditions. Thousands have lost their bread and jobs due to privatisation. The best example of this is the Telecom privatisation, which AKP has also described as the largest privatisation in the history of the republic. When the AKP came to power, the number of employees at Telecom dropped to 25,000, as of 2010, while 61,000 people worked at Turkish Telecom. The government has left people unemployed, hungry and miserable to pay debt to foreign countries, not to invest in new investments. Hundreds of homes were destroyed as a result of privatisation. What was the result of these privatisations? Was there a competition in the market? Did the prices go down? More jobs? No, only the profits of the people went to Hariri, to Texas, to England. As the privatisation was being announced earlier, you came to power, the law was changed, the evaluation reports are no longer released, the public is being prevented from knowing the value of its own existence. As the examples show, privatisations aren't built to increase employment and efficiency, but privatisations are mafioso, Russian-type privatisations, so new oligarchs are being created. I want you to know that even though the privatisations are inconclusive with the government's conscience, the public doesn't have a conscience, but it must be remembered that property has a legitimate problem, of course, one day it will return to the people. Mr. President, good lawmakers, sugar beets are the most job-and-addient product in our country, as in the whole world. It is the industry that contributes the most not only to sugar beets producers and factory workers, but to side sectors such as livestock, agriculture, shipping and food. In Turkey, privatising sugar factories that directly concern over 200,000 farmers, over 20,000 employees, means destroying the agricultural sector. Closing factories in the east and southeast is the biggest blow to the region and to the people of the region.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0039par0364	When did the privatisation process begin, Mr. Agha?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0038par0365	Defending Malatya's sugar factory is a sad situation for a Malatian MP, Mr. Çuk. Working in the east and southeast...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0039par0367	I'm against privatisation, not closure, and you know it!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0040par0368	Mr. Çuk... please don't interfere Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0038par0369	You will open employment packages both east and southeast and defend privatisation. Defending this privatisation is treason against Malatya, treason against Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, stop lying to people in front of their eyes. On the one hand, you're going to explain employment packages, you're going to privatize them, it's not going to be an oxymoron. The Malatian Sugar Factory is an institution that provides jobs for about 80,000 people, not only with employees, not with producers, but with side arms. Dear friends, if you sell the Malatya Sugar Factory, what will Malatya and Malatian do with their economy already dying and shrinking every day? If you sell the Candy Factory, who will win? He's going to lose. In the past, whoever won the Sumerbank privatisation will win again. It also makes sense that the AKP wants to sell 10 sugar factories as blocks. The point of this is to sell an address to someone and go after them. If you sell these factories on the most valuable land in the provinces they've built, you'll put a dagger in the heart of the city, you'll destroy its liver. Many of the factories that are wanted to be privatized are working, their machines are renovated, their treatment facilities built, model factories that don't do any harm to the environment. Renovating and selling factories also demonstrates AKP's privatisation logic because they think of three or five people they're going to sell, not the people, because they have nothing to do with justice or development. They're just building themselves and their followers, and the rest is empty. Malatians know very well about AKP privatisations. The Malatians experienced the AKP's archetypes in person. The privatized factories in Malatya were sold at a cost. The Malatians will never forget the Sumerbanks, those who sell the Tekele under its true value, those who pursue it, nor will they ever forgive it. Dear friends, the AKP has another memorable sale in Malatya. The AKP's municipality sold a state building in the center of the city along with its mosque to the Dutch, and the first thing the Dutch did was to destroy the mosque. So, Tekelin, Sumerbank, what happened to the money from privatisation of the state? It's nothing; not a nail has struck Malatya, no new production facilities have been opened, and no one has been able to account for them, and the money has been squandered, my friends. Dear friends, whatever door you knock on in Malatiah, you will meet retired people from Tekel, from Sugar, from Sumerbank. Now there's not even a factory where the Malatians can retire. Since you don't work in these factories, you sell easily because you don't have any sweat, you're like the bad heirs who inherited property from his father. The workers of your sales projects are disturbed, the tradesmen are disturbed, democratic mass organizations are disturbed, Malatian, Elbian, Mushlu, Erzincan are disturbed. You've only opened your eyes for your benefit. There can be no policy with an exclusion, an exclusion that ignores people. What you do is an act of hostility, an act of conciliation. Come on, don't be cruel to the people!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0041par0380	I wonder who chose us.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0038par0381	Dear friends, are only factories sold in Malatya? No. The great acts of the people, which are in Akchadağ, in Doğanşehir, are being pursued. The property of the rivers, which are common to all mankind, is changed by hand under the name of HESES. Dear friends, mountains are being sold. In Malatiah, the mountains above the source of drinking water are occupied by quarryes and mines, in order to make one rich. For what? Is it employment or production? No, to make someone rich. Dear friends, to sell these factories in Mush, Ercish, Malatya, in Ercish, is to betray that region. These factories sold are the heart of that area. I wish you not to be a party to this betrayal, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0042par0386	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0043par0387	Mr. President, I need you to take a break from the negotiations. I need a Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit02spe0042par0388	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0042par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party group, now calling against Yaşar Karayel, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0044par0003	Mr. President, you've just taken a break from my residence, but the Republican People's Party MP...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0042par0004	I promised Mr. Karayel.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0044par0005	But Mr. President, Mr. Çalak, you've been taunted, you've stopped the hearing.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0042par0006	The session has changed, Mr. Çık, I can't promise you anything. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0045par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's group proposal for the privatisation of the Candy Factory. I salute your high council. Respected lawmakers, when we look at the sugar production in Turkey, we have a factory in Turkey that produces thirty-three sugars from beet production, and we have six starch-based factories. Through these, we are provided with the need for sugar in Turkey. Beets are a truly indispensable agricultural product for our country. Beet production, both for our farmer and for the development of Anatolia, has contributed greatly to Turkey's economy, both in the past and now. We really thank all the beets that contribute to our country's economy, their families in person. In our country, the number of farmers who worked on beet production for years is about 450,215 years ago, when we look at 2009, it's down to around 188,000, but in these measurements, the amount of beets and revenues are the same. When we look at the fields that have been planted, our total fields are around 38,000 hectares. Every year around 140-150 million tonnes of sugar are produced in the world, which is already one fifth of beets, and the rest of which are made from straws. The amount of sugar on foreign trade in international markets is around 50 million tonnes. The fact that the straw has grown in tropical regions, that it does not require irrigation, that it does not require planting every year as in beet, and that it has become a plant every four or five years, really gives this product an advantage. The amount of sugar obtained from this product is really cheap, so it creates a huge competition with beet farmers and the sugar that we get from beets. When we look at these measurements, it is not possible to compete between the sugar produced from beets and the sugar produced from the cane. Sugar is one of the most variable products in the world's market prices, making significant changes in short periods of time daily, weekly, and even strokes reaching 10 percent per day are observed in this product. Although the world's sugar production has been recovered in the 2010-2011 period we've just left behind, it's around $650 or $700 per ton due to the historical decline of stocks. Our country has about 8 per cent of the world's beet sugar production, and in 2010-2011 it has maintained that rate in marketing; the EU, the United States, is among the countries that produce sugar in the fourth place behind Russia. In recent years, when food security has become increasingly critical worldwide, all producers, especially sugar beets, have been able to supply imports in terms of basic food materials such as sugar, even if imports are cheaper than domestic prices, instead of importing their domestic demands, with adequate policies. The main purpose of Candy Law 4634, which took effect in 2001, is self-sufficient. The Candy Corporation, established by the same Law and has a ten-year history, is responsible for implementing the Candy Law. In this framework, the Candy Corporation makes arrangements for the production of sugar in Turkey. With the arrangements that this institution has made, the domestic sugar demand has been met with domestic production from domestic substances, allowing the producers to maintain a balance of beets, beets, beet sugar and starch-based sugar production, maintaining stability in sugar production-arz prices, protection policy. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the beet quotas applied in Turkey have caused rumors that, according to some, the production of sugarpancane has been reduced. It is not true that the quota system at the head of these reviews restricts the production of beet sugar in our country and reduces the production of beets. Our country has 3.1 million tonnes of sugar production, beets sugar over 1 million tons, and starch-based sugars are around 400 million tons. In 2010-2011, there were 21 kilograms of sugar per person per person in the world, while in our country, 25 kilograms of sugar per person is consumed. In Turkey, our average sugar consumption is around 1,800,000 tonnes. It is clear that our country's established sugar production capacity is above our needs, and that sugar sugar sugar, which has no chance of competing with low-cost sugar, has limited export opportunities, has led by negative publications on sugar to reduce sugar consumption in public, is not sustainable at the level of installed capacity or on domestic demand. As a matter of fact, in the pre-sugar law, in particular in the 90s, in the years when beet prices set by the Council of Ministers were attractive to producers, we faced sugar supply problems, resulting in massive import explosions because production was not sufficient to meet domestic demand in the years when the manufacturer was not satisfied. Another important thing is that because of the quota system, the same target market-producing beet sugar and starch-based sugar industry are able to produce enough sugar within the home without harming each other. Otherwise, starch-based sugars provide ease for use, both because their prices are low and liquid, according to beet sugar. The first quota allocation application began in 2002-03, when the Candy Law took effect in 2001, and nine years of marketing were completed as of today. In the 2010-2011 marketing year, about 200,000 beet farmers have produced 18 million tonnes of beets in 330,000 hectares, reaching the highest number of beet productions in the last decade. In addition, in the production of sugarpants, under the guidance of our companies, the producers were given the highest beet yield in our country's history, 5.460 kilograms per ton, when modern agricultural practices were combined with positive climate conditions. The beet sugar producer and beet producers agreed on the beet prices that increased 2.59 per cent in the last 2010-2011 marketing year, no significant change in sugar prices. Following the adoption of the Law, sugar prices in our country appear to have dropped really on the basis of the 2003 prices. As a result, today, beets and corn -- the raw materials of sugar -- with enough beet sugar and starch-based sugar to satisfy our country's needs -- have been targeted and achieved in the country. Respected lawmakers, it is possible to sum up some of the other activities that I consider appropriate to share with you here, which have been carried out by the Candy Corporation to protect sectoral stability and domestic production: An application has been carried out to ensure that illegal sugar is identified through scientific analysis, starting in 2007, which has been avoided by governorships, republican prosecutors, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Respected MPs, privatisation is available in the programs and political declarations of all our parties. Privatisation is one of the main elements that our government really embraces as a principle. There have been privatisations that have been really hugely efficient, as there have been some wrong among our privatized institutions so far. As our friends say, in privatized companies, in factories, in sugar companies, really, when the Kütahya and the Iconian sugar mills are sampled, you're all aware that they're useful. For him, I would like to say that we are against the inquiry motion the Republican People's Party has now submitted regarding the privatisation of these sugar factories.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0046par0025	Thank you, Mr. Karayel. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, Alim Izmir, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0047par0028	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Party Group of Republican People's Party members on behalf of the National Movement Party Group in favour of a motion on the privatisation of sugar factories submitted to Parliament on 21 October 2011. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, this issue has come to the agenda of this Assembly on different occasions in the 23rd-century Turkish Grand National Assembly working calendar. That's when we told him. Although we have repeatedly said that the latest privatisation must be the sugar factories and that it would be helpful for the government to back down from taking a wrong step, it seems that the government continues to take this wrong step. Despite the political law, today the State Department of Privatisation for the privatisation of Erzincan, Elazig, Elbia and Malatya sugar factories has decided 13th. His apartment was cancelled on 15/12/2009. Despite this cancellation decision, it is unfortunate that the President of the Privatisation Administration has again been brought behind the law and brought to Turkey's agenda. Because sugar factories aren't just factories. Sugar factories are the bread of hundreds of thousands of people, very important factories that are the means for the production of human bread. These factories are a very important factory of sugar beets, producers, melasla livestock industry, livestock industry, and sugar-sweetening industry, and are an important source of employment in the cities in which factories are now mentioned. Now, if you give up these benefits and try to privatize these factories, which the state created in the 60s, years ago, based on the social state's understanding of the state, it doesn't just profit from its social state. You can't stop playing with it directly, indirectly, hundreds of thousands of people's bread if you try to privatize it. Therefore, this motion is a motion in place. We're sure the valued MPs will see it right. We need to rethink these factories, most of them in our eastern and southeast regions, and as I have just said, which have led many of our people to bring bread to their homes, and if they are the result of extensive research, if they have problems, if they need to be resolved, if legal arrangements, our Parliament needs to be informed and taken the necessary measures. I would like to repeat once again in your presence that we, the National Movement Party, are in favor of the absolute privatisation of these factories. These factories are part of the Privatisation Supreme Council's 12/8/2008 resolution, which was adopted as a privatisation of 2008/50, as I have just stated on 15/12/2009. It is those whose decision has been made that the privatisation of his apartment has been halted. Now, this is just what happened in the portfolio B. I also want to remind you once again how important these factories are to our country when we consider what happened in the portfolio C. Dear lawmakers, why does the ruling party insist on privatisation of these factories? I don't blame anyone, but, please, I urge you to think about this once again and account for yourself. Think again about who the cartels in this country that run the sweetener industry and the starch-based sugar industry have power over. I'm going to share the income from these factories with you, based on the examples that are not going to be so much, but with an example that I'm going to tell you about in a little while. Many of these factories now have land in urban centers, almost a land-owning factory. Under the privatisation of these factories, the pressure of the starch-based sugar industry I just mentioned has been placed on the two major representatives of Turkey. I won't name them, but you know exactly who they are. Therefore, I think it would be helpful for you, especially our government officials, to reassess the privatisation of these factories in all the environments we find close by. Now, the Elazig Candy Factory is a factory where 60,000 people live directly today, based on the information I received from our esteemed MP, Mr. Enver Erdem. According to official records, the area and productions have dropped over the years, but the beet plant area in 2010-2011 is about 2,000 hectares, the number of farmers planting about 1,900 tonnes, and the beets that have been made are 90 thousand tons. Again, the Elbia Sugar Factory is a factory in 2010-2011 where sugar beets are planted in 5,600 hectares, and about 4,000 farmers live from here, and beets that have been made are about 36,000 tons annually, and sugar is produced close to 50,000 tons of sugar. Again, according to the latest information from Mr. Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoglu, there are 647 people working in this factory, 379 temporary workers, 55,000 tons of sugar is being produced, and our farmer will produce in the crop area of this factory during the 2011-2012 season. When we look at the Erzincan Sugar Factory, it is also an important factory in the same season, where more than 4,507 hectares of farmers sow and the beets that have been produced are 212,000 tons. I'm not saying that to keep Melas and his age from getting too old because it's a very important amount. These are the products that are important in animal production that I'm talking about, and they're by-products. The Malatian Sugar Factory was produced in about 5,987 hectares during the 2000-2001 season, while the 2010-2011 season produced 6,700 hectares. So it's really important to want to be re-privatized in a factory that has been growing recently. Dear lawmakers, I am a member of the district where one of these factories is privatized. The Kütahya Sugar Factory was one of the first privatised factories as soon as the AKP came to power in 2004. I've shared with you on this bench several times in the last semester that there have been some very serious irregularities here that have been moved to justice. I'd just like to point out that the case against the state's attorney's office after I filed a criminal complaint has resulted in the fact that the factory's land has been taken away by irregularity and has been put into the pockets of its new owners. The local court ruled that the procedure, dated 29/3/2011, was irregular. From that day forward, the ministry and the Turkish Corporation General Directorate of Anonymity are mine, and I will sue the land for annulment. That's what you guys are going through. Now that the judicial process is going on, I don't want to have any more talk about it, but I want to share with you one more time: whoever it is, whoever it is, let everyone who's rightfully producing it be clear, but if there are people who are taking it upon themselves, knowing the opportunity to privatize their property, we need to do it together. I hope that this privatisation decision will be waived, and this motion of investigation will be accepted in our Parliament and the opportunity to reassess it, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0048par0043	Thank you, Mr. Light. Öznur Çukık, Malatya MP who wants to take a stand against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0049par0047	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the best examples of agriculture and industrial integration in our country is beet agriculture and sugar industry. When we look back from the past, especially the Turkish sugar industry has not only used raw materials to produce sugar, but has made an important contribution to agriculture and the industry, with its contributions to employment and side sectors. As I say this, I would like to remind both groups that our friends who have just spoken have missed something, especially when they share the privatisation process. In 1956, these sugar factories, especially for social purposes in Menderes, took into account the process in which our factories in our region were then experienced, particularly during the 57th government, or during the three-way coalition, I would like to remind you very clearly that the process of privatisation of sugar factories has begun.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0050par0050	Not only after 1950, but before 1950.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0049par0051	Particularly known as the Kemal Dervis Laws.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0051par0052	It's not like that, but it's not like you did.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0052par0053	You stop it!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0049par0054	I would especially like to remind you of the time when the Candy Law came out...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0053par0055	Is the privatisation wrong or correct, Mr. Drift?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0049par0056	...and the main reason for the privatisation process at that time was the first time that sweeteners entered Turkey.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0053par0057	Answer him if it is wrong to sell the sugar factory in Malatya!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0054par0058	He was scheduled in 2008, Mr. Congressman, 2008!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0055par0059	It doesn't give us the right information!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0060	I'd like to remind you of that. It was the 57th term when sweeteners entered Turkey, and the quota at the time...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0057par0061	Right or wrong?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0058par0062	Mr. Agha, please... you spoke for ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0063	...of the 57th Government...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0057par0064	Are you defending the sale of the Malatya Sugar Factory or not? Answer him!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0058par0065	Mr. Agha, can I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0066	I'd also like to remind you of his letter of goodwill to the IMF about the closure of ten factories. While we're going through the privatisation process of sugar factories, it's been our power to think about our people working there.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0059par0068	It was cancelled in 2009, the court cancelled, why do you insist on defending it?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0069	I remind all of you that it is our Prime Minister who again spurred the privatisation process in 2006, and it is this power that gave our workers over a hundred and eighty days in 2006.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0059par0070	What's changed now?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0071	The workers of our factories, which were subject to privatisation at the time, have been recruited by 4,700 workers in Turkey's Turkish area. Remember, all of you, the state of the mood of our temporary workers at that time, and now, with our staff members, the work continues with pleasure. As of yesterday, we had 10 of our union heads from all over Turkey meet and discuss issues with both our Group Vice President and our Prime Minister. We need to read the privatisation process very well, and while we're doing this reading, I think that both the National Movement Party and the Republican People's Party should look at themselves first, and in our country...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0060par0074	Are you defending this privatisation in Malatya, Mr. Çuk? Come in! Is the sugar factory to be sold or not?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0075	...the sugar beets in the industry, as they do all over the world...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0061par0076	Mr. Congressman, the programme has been announced in 2008.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0077	I'd like to remind you again of the privatisations you've made in the past, the period you've started.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0061par0078	Malatya Sugar Factory is a profitable factory, profit, profit.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0079	Agriculture and sugar industry continue to develop from the past to now, and beet production is the main driving force of agriculture, and we know that, and we know that, and the privatisation process in Turkey...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0062par0080	Do you advocate the sale of the Malatya Sugar Factory, Mr. Çilk?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0081	...I'm speaking to the mentality that the authorities are against privatisation today as their spokesman...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0062par0082	It's a dream come true! It's a dream!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0056par0083	It's not about privatisation, it's about closure. And all they need to do is talk to the ministers...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0063par0085	You're alienating, not privatizing. You're confusing privatisation with alienation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0064par0086	May I have your attention, please, members of lawmakers?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0063par0087	Honey, he's not telling the truth, Mayor, what should we listen to?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0064par0088	The preachers answered, they're talking. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0089	We don't have to...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0063par0090	He's not telling the truth, he's writing there, he's memorizing it, he's reading it, what the hell!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0064par0091	You're not Mr. Hatibin's controller!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0092	We all have to know the truth about this, not about what everyone knows is right. The privatisation of sugar factories, the beet-related process...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0066par0093	Tell the truth. The monopoly has been sold, the Sumerbank has retreated, in your time. It was real! It was a dream!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0094	You're all very well following the process, the privatisation process.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0066par0095	It was a dream, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0067par0096	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0097	Today the country's economic level is clear and there is a Turkey that is the star of the world. We have nothing to say to the opposition who doesn't want to see this picture. So far, economic indicators see and know that opposition only makes dry noise in Turkey, which has taken steps to become the world's 10th largest economy. Like the Macribi who found the goods, he's always specific...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0068par0099	No one should make a sound when you move the goods, you're right!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0100	We think everyone should take off their hats and put them in front of you first.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0069par0101	Have you forgotten Balıkesir SECA?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0102	I want to say that the economic indicators in Turkey are an example for the world. Today we are talking about Turkey, the world's 16th largest economy, the 6th largest economy in Europe. 2023 is a picture of Turkey, which provides such serious recovery in the economy within the framework of our goals, while the opposition party's privatisation...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0070par0103	You left not a single factory in Malatiah, but sold Sumerbank, and pursued!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0071par0104	Mr. Agha, what you're doing is not right, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0105	We are the dear friends of Malatya...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0070par0106	Alas, a Malatian MP advocates the sale of the sugar factory! Too bad, I'm sorry!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0107	Malatya is the center of attraction in the region, and now there is a Malatya, which is industrialized in Malatya, a city of education, a city of health. Nails that haven't been made in Malatya in 80 years and haven't been nailed down in our time of power have been nailed down. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Right now...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0070par0108	Aye, aye, bravo! Look, it was real. It was a dream. Sumerbank was real. Sugar was real. Meatfish was real.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0110	Yeah, it was real. It was a dream. Malatya is currently serving above all of them, including in transport, agriculture, education, health care, and during the period when Mr. Veli Ağbaba (agbaba) was in power, and continues to receive services. Today, it was real. It was a dream. Gentlemen, if you remember the Valley of Creek, when you went over it, you cost thousands of lives...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0070par0112	Sugar, sugar!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0065par0113	Malatya is the center of attraction in the region. With its economic indicators, with its employment industry, Malatya is the shining star of the region with the fifth industrial site we are about to build. What you're saying is that the monopoly has been privatized, the Sumerbank has been privatized, and many more of them are now working in Organised Industries. So if you can't see the picture of Malatya, which grows in education, in health, in Turkey, the world's 16th largest economy, then we have nothing to say. God has given you eyes, you cannot see, you cannot hear, you cannot speak. We have nothing to do! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0072par0118	Thank you, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0073par0119	Mr. President, he's been taunting me with my name, and I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0072par0120	Mr. Agha, please have a seat. Let's hear Mr. Vural first. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0074par0122	Sir, it's just been said that the Orator was taken in the previous period of this privatisation, but...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0072par0124	Congressmans, please, we can't hear Mr. Hatib's voice.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0074par0125	The Privatisation Supreme Council's resolution, dated 12 August 2008 and 2008/50, was decided to sell Elazig, Malatya, Erzincan and Elbia as a whole. In 2008, I think...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0075par0126	The AKP is in power...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0074par0127	Was the AKP in power or the BDP?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0076par0128	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0077par0129	So since you can't be, the AK PARTY is in power.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0078par0130	The AKP is in power, not in power.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0079par0131	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0080par0132	Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0079par0133	Mr. Çurk has been taunting me with my name. I'd like to answer for a moment.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0080par0134	What did he say by giving you your name and tease you, Mr. Agha?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0079par0135	He gave me my name and claimed what I said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0080par0136	No, you've already responded to your position, Mr. Agha. What did he say to you that he picked on you? Please tell me that.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0081par0137	No name used, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0079par0138	He used my name, sir. Look at the report.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0082par0139	Mr. President, if he used your name, he was kind, but in any case...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0083par0141	I listened to his speech, and he was on the edge of criticism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0079par0142	Mr. President, I insist.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0083par0143	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0084par0144	Enough, Mayor! Come on, Mayor!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0083par0145	Congressmans, not me, please, our clerk-member friends are counting...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0085par0146	Mr. President, you see that, don't you?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0083par0147	And one of them is here from the opposition.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0086par0149	Are we waiting for friends, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0087par0150	Sustained, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0086par0151	Come on, Mayor!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0087par0152	Sir, we need to identify the people in the hall during the vote...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0088par0153	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0087par0154	Sustained.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0089par0155	They're selling candy!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0088par0156	Please take your time, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0089par0158	Let's get him some more, Mr. President!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0088par0159	Members of the law, it has not been accepted.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0090par0161	Did we wait for the pedestrians, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0091par0162	Mr. President, what's the vote?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0088par0163	The Justice and Development Party's...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0092par0164	Mr. President, please state the number of votes.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0093par0165	How long has it been since you counted it?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0094par0166	Yeah, how long has it really been?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0095par0167	Members of parliament, the vote has been approved. The statement is sufficient.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0096par0168	He's on record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0097par0169	But you counted here, sir... those who don't... say... You were going to do it right away. You're on it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0095par0170	Wait a second... But the number here, the members of the clerks, the ones who agree among themselves, and the ones who don't accept...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0098par0172	But, Mr. President, I can't...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0099par0173	Mr. President, again, according to the fourth joke of Article 141 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0100par0174	Mr. President, that's not the method. It's not fair to wait here for that number and get in there and then not have the number. It doesn't suit the Clave!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0098par0175	If you didn't count it... you'll appreciate it, but you'll tell me the numbers.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0100par0176	It doesn't suit the Clave!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0101par0177	Yes, I read the third joke of Article 141 of the Civil Code: As a result of the vote, it is announced by the President to the General Assembly, or by the term "not approved."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0102par0179	Okay, you're right, Mr. President. Read it... well, you didn't declare it because you didn't agree on it, you had the clerk count it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0101par0180	Yeah...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0103par0181	The clerks told me.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0102par0182	Tell me the result of that. This is not the president's statement.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0101par0183	Okay, so the clerks say there's a lot of unaccepted members... and I said it was not accepted based on this. Mr. President, can you give me a number?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0104par0185	Mr. President, your application is correct.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0105par0186	Mr. President, distrust of the Court is an important event.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0106par0187	The day after tomorrow, another person has been accepted despite 50 people. What will we do if he does?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0105par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0107par0189	No, Mr. Shandir, I don't understand what we're discussing. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0105par0190	Mr. President, if you wait for the ruling group to come from outside, you will face these objections.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0107par0191	No one's waiting for him from the outside here, sir. I waited until the clerks counted the consents, and then... please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0105par0192	Mr. President, the vote is... wrong, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0108par0193	Mr. President, wait a minute... let me tell you what we're discussing. If, indeed, you learn the number of opposition and you count the number there to compare it to each other, you have to count it, and you have to explain the number.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0107par0194	No, Mr. Longhorn, I didn't count, my fellow clerks counted. I said it based on their count. I don't have to explain the number, sir. I've read the decree of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0108par0195	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0109par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0108par0197	Mr. President, if, according to the majority, you're going to appreciate...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0110par0198	Mr. President, what's he talking about, Congressman?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0108par0199	Mr. Elitaş, wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0110par0200	No, the Deputy Director of the Group has made the necessary statement.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0111par0201	Mr. Longhorn, please sit down. Look, Mr. Group Vice President has already asked for a word, I'll give it to him.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0108par0202	Then you won't wait for it!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0111par0203	Please, have a seat.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0108par0204	You're not going to wait there. You're going to fill the lines.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0111par0205	What do you mean you won't wait there!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0112par0206	The Director doesn't have the right to speak here! The head of management will set up the administration.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0113par0207	Mr. Elitaş, you'll need this justice one day.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0114par0208	No! It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0115par0209	Have a seat, please. Mr. Vural will explain. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0116par0211	Mr. President, look, if you hadn't hesitated about this, you would've done something right here in the middle of the day, as those who didn't agree to it. Again, you, as required by Article 141 of the Civil Code, will find those who raise their hand in favor of the matter and against it during the vote, including the president and the clerk members.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0117par0212	Okay.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0116par0213	We say, "Tell us what you have counted." Say: 60 here, 140 here. We don't want anything else. If you count or you don't count, then you haven't processed according to the Civil Code of 141. He's saying, "I'm sorry."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0118par0214	We don't know if the MPs were after other jobs, but they weren't here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0119par0215	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0116par0216	He's talking about clearly counting, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0120par0217	Mr. President, the next time they read Article 141 of the Civil Code, they might know what happened.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0116par0218	Otherwise, if there were a clear majority here, we wouldn't be able to say anything against your will.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0121par0219	Mr. Vural, thank you, it's all been filed.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0122par0220	It's on the record so it doesn't happen again.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0123par0221	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0125par0223	The Civil Code of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0224	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0125par0225	Sir, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0226	Sir, regarding this motion, the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0126par0227	Mr. President, the motion has ended its negotiations, the vote has been made, the matter has been passed, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0125par0228	I'll have the motion read, then Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0229	Sir, it's not about the motion.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0125par0230	I'll have the motion read, then.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0231	About the AK PARTY motion...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0125par0232	Okay, I'll have him read it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0233	I'm doing something to express that you can't be processed. Before we begin the process...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0125par0234	Yeah, why?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0235	You can't process this. In that regard, the 98th Article of our Constitution has determined the ways of information and control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this framework, he specifically organised issues such as the question, parliamentary research, general discussion, geneor and parliamentary investigation, and stated that they would be used. A matter that has previously been set for parliamentary research or other issues, which have eliminated the control authority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, has, by the Constitution, removed the right to control Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Since there are issues related to parliamentary research on the agenda that have effectively eliminated the right to control, it is not possible to accept a motion that effectively eliminates it. If you eliminate us here tomorrow with the will of the majority, that is unacceptable. In that sense, this motion...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0127par0236	We're extending the deadlines so you can talk more.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0124par0237	...to destroy the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, its authority by the constitution, its control authority, its actual majority will, with authoritarian understanding. This is a direct violation of the Constitution. In this regard, it is not possible, even with the majority's will, to ask that this motion be dealt with, to be discussed, not to be held as part of a constitutional mandate for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In that respect, this motion cannot be raised. Mr. President, there are issues that need to be discussed permanently. The Clave has a special agenda on this issue. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has the right to budget. When the budget should be discussed is determined in the Constitution and the Civil Code. Since this arrangement is an arrangement that does not even meet the right to make such a budget, it is clearly not in accordance with tradition. In that regard, it is only possible for those who have made this motion to correct the motion and then renew it. Otherwise, you'll block our verbal question in Parliament, put Parliament Speaker veto on written questions, no parliamentary research, and what will we inspect? What are we going to inspect in the name of these people? In that sense, I beg you, a matter such as the absence of other audit matters means in fact impugning the Constitution, ignoring the Civil Law.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0128par0240	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0129par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0128par0242	Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0129par0243	The 141st article of the Civil Code, Mr. President, states that the President would like to raise his hand to those who have agreed to the issue of the vote and then refused to accept it. You've waited for someone to raise their hand and I think you've damaged your neutrality. I invite you to remain neutral, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0128par0245	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan, I'm neutral, don't worry. If...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0129par0246	Please don't give us any problems with the basis of Parliament's trust.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0130par0247	Mr. President, if the Civil Code reads the 141 jokes, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group will understand that your application is very accurate, but I hope with experience he will understand.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0131par0248	Will the president answer, or will you answer?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0132par0249	Is the president incompetent, Mr. Elistash?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0133par0250	Please don't replace him, he's probably got experience.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0134par0251	Mr. President, this, sir, is a matter of disputation of the Civil Code and the Constitution...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0135par0252	The legislature's office needs to take a stand on this. Parliamentary Parliament must be on the side of the Constitution and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0134par0253	The opening of a formal debate...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0135par0254	You don't even have to do it. It's essential.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0136par0255	Yes, Mr. Vural, the practice so far is in accordance with Article 49 of Article 8 of the Civil Code. ▪ Laws and proposals and other jobs from commissions. The proposal of the advisory council and the approval of the General Assembly can be set aside for each of the 6th and 7th chapters on a specific day of the week.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0137par0258	Yeah, so it's about leaving, not ignoring. Therefore, it is imperative that he depart from the opponent in action. (EC PARTY RINGS) The Council of Counsellors has also determined which dates this will take place. It is a violation of the Constitution, Mr. President, to ignore control authority.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0136par0259	The proposal has already been presented with an arrangement for verbal questions, and we haven't read the...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0138par0260	Read it, sir, so you'll see when you read it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0136par0261	We haven't read the proposal, so the General Assembly doesn't have any information on the proposal.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0139par0262	Sir, the audit issues will not be discussed. When do I get to discuss my motions for Congress research, and when do I get to meet them? Then why are we giving it to him?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0136par0263	I get it, but here, look, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0140par0264	Mr. President, this is the first time...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0136par0265	There's a... there's a word that can be broken up, it can be separated, it doesn't say "separation."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0141par0266	That's not true! Control clearance is essential, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0136par0267	He can... he can leave.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0142par0268	Mr. President, open up a legal debate, sir. I mean, it's not like we're talking to each other here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0141par0269	I don't think that's... that's not gonna happen! So, with the will of the majority here, can you ignore the control authority of the House, Mr. President, I beg you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0142par0270	Mr. President, open up a two-minute, procedural debate, let's consider it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0143par0271	All right, I'm gonna open up a legal debate. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0144par0273	Sir, it's not about the procedure, it's about the basics. That's not possible!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0145par0274	Sir, of course! According to Article 60, it is necessary to discuss procedure. It's about whether or not the constitution is fit for a non-constitutional discussion...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0144par0275	So now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0146par0276	Mr. Vural, now, in light of the eighth sentence of this 49...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0144par0277	Now, let's think about this, Mr. President: we have a proposal, a group proposal, and no further research motions. It was voted not to be given, it was accepted. What are you going to do?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0146par0278	No, that's not happening, that's out of the question.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0144par0279	Yeah, well, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0146par0280	No, it's not.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0144par0281	See?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0146par0282	It's a restraining order, and there's no restraining order here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0144par0283	Look, Mr. President, since it's limited to three people on top of the agenda, you just said it's a violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0147par0284	Mr. President, let's discuss the procedure, sir. There's no point in Mr. Vural talking about it like that.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0144par0285	Now, it is a violation of the Civil Code and the Constitution to bring up a motion that eliminates control authority on this issue. Therefore, to maintain the right attitude in the beginning, to ignore the authority of the majority, to prevent that authority from being used, to prevent this dictatorship from being imposed, the government is the unconditional nation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0148par0286	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Vural, so far the agenda has been decided by the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0149par0288	Mr. President, give me a reason, call it the Constitution.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0150par0289	He can't, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0148par0290	At the advice of the Council of Counsellors, it is determined by the decisions made by the General Assembly, and after that...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0150par0291	Mr. President, it's not possible. I have control authority. I have authority in the Constitution. You can't have that authority.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0148par0292	Your control clearance is not restricted, Mr. Vural, there is no limitation. Yes, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0150par0294	Look...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0148par0295	Please... point taken, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0151par0296	Mr. President, 14 minutes ago today, I was called Deputy Director of the Group from the Secretary General's office and was told that there was a Council of Counsellors at 13.30 p.m.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0148par0297	Yeah, it was in there, that's right.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0151par0298	So the last-minute motion for the EC PARTY. Now, in this motion, there is a motion that lifts the control mechanism in Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution, the question, research, investigation, general discussion. Now, if there was such a thing as a bill or a bill, we would ask for a motion not to be discussed or rejected. The Constitution would be the first subject to discuss, according to 84. Now, because this is a proposal and because it violates the Constitution, it is not something that can be avoided by offering a majority vote. I mean, Tuesday or the other days, there's audit motions. All of this, as a whole, is a violation of the Constitution. They're gonna have to take this motion back and correct it in the face of a situation like this. It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0152par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0153par0301	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0152par0302	So the argument is not a matter of procedure, it's an invitation to law enforcement. Now, look, 15, 22, 29 November; 6, 13, 20, 27 December and 3 January. In the meantime, what would you do if a gene was given to you according to the Constitution and the Civil Code?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0154par0304	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0152par0305	Sir, aren't there other audit issues?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0154par0306	Mr. Chancer, what does that have to do with anything? This is about working hours. In order for the opposition to speak more...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0152par0307	So if there was a motion for a gene, how would you, according to that, discuss this Council of Counsellors decision that you would agree to?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0155par0308	You'll bring it back to change it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0152par0309	How do we discuss this, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0155par0310	We won't bring it. Say it!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0152par0311	I mean, the issues that depend on time...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0156par0312	Mr. Şandir, look, when we look at Article 50 of the Civil Code, the Council of the Council of Ministers, under the mandate of the Constitution and the Institution, it must be concluded at a certain time...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0152par0313	It's about...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0156par0314	..a special agenda for a subject or a number of issues.........
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0157par0315	It's packed...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0156par0316	..and can determine the date of the meeting. These issues are included on the special agenda after the presentation of the presidency.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0158par0317	What are you going to do then...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0156par0318	..after special agendas, general provisions are included in the specified agendas.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0158par0319	Mr. President, what are you going to do if the Council doesn't identify it?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0156par0320	It's already on a special agenda. It's what you say it is.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0158par0321	Sir, if the Counsellor Board doesn't find out together, how are you going to provide the incident you call a special agenda with your decision sitting in the middle?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0156par0322	It will be determined by the General Assembly on the recommendation of the Council of Counsellor.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0158par0323	How do you know we'll compromise? Is that possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0159par0324	We don't have to compromise at the counseling board.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0156par0325	No, if it's not accepted by the advisory board, the group proposals will be brought in. That's how the General Assembly decides here, either by the Council of Counsellor's decision or by the General Assembly's decision...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0159par0326	Mr. President, the Civil Code of the Group Vice President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0160par0327	Mr. President, the authority of sovereignty is absolute, and the authority of control is absolute.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0161par0328	Fix this...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0159par0329	I have the samples we signed together.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0160par0330	So the Constitution says that the last joke of 98 is that the method of meeting, meeting and research is organised with the Council's Office, with the context and scope of the proposals for the general meeting. Thus, it is contrary to the Constitution that prevents them from being answered. We're expressing it. You're ignoring our authority.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit03spe0162par0332	Mr. Vural, point taken. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0162par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Members of parliament, the General Assembly's agenda is organised in Article 49 of the Civil Code. So far, the implementations have been determined by the General Assembly's decision on agendas and rankings, recommendations from the Council of Counsellors or group proposals. Today's group proposal has nothing against implementation. There are several similar group proposals adopted by the General Assembly in the past period.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0163par0003	There's no resemblance, Mr. President. Give me an example of eight Tuesdays in a row.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0162par0004	I'll give you a sample, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0163par0005	Your show...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0162par0006	The 84th Union dated March 30, 2011; the 24th period, October 18, 2011, was the 8th Union. These came with group suggestions. The 24th term came on Tuesday (October 11th) with the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0164par0008	Okay, but how many weeks?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0162par0009	It's pretty clear how many weeks it's been, but here...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0164par0010	How many weeks? You take it off for a week, okay, but if you take it off for ten weeks...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0165par0011	We signed them.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0162par0012	Now, I'm having the AK PARTY Group read the motion according to Article 19 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0165par0013	Mr. President, I want to make it clear that, of course, our entire nation is hearing about this. In order to explore the issues of this nation, the pensioner, the unemployed, the agricultural sector, the non-assigned teachers, the people in distress and in distress, to find solutions, we need to discuss these parliamentary research proposals in this parliament, according to the Civil Code and the Constitution. Today, the majority will prevent us from expressing the problems of the farmer, the officer, the unemployed, the poor guru, the earthquake victim in this parliament.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0162par0014	He won't, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0165par0015	It is by law that we ignore the right of sovereignty by the majority of its dictatorships. I can't narrow down to a discussion of a fundamental issue of procedure, but you're essentially destroying this sovereignty, the sovereignty of the nation, you're ignoring it. Thus, it is clear that the Parliamentary Presidency must take initiative in this matter, but its failure to use the initiative also reveals that it really represents the will of the majority. In this regard, the consideration of such a motion is intended to restrict the authority given to us by the Constitution to all lawmakers. In this regard, I would say that the Parliamentary Presidency should have an agenda on what day my parliamentary research proposals will be discussed, but we do not see it possible to conduct a parliamentary study without such an agenda. Let the whole nation witness how, by the will of the majority, by the dictate, this nation's voice is wanted to be silenced.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0166par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0167par0021	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0166par0022	I'll read the proposal after that, Mr. Tarhan. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday (now) 02,11,2011, I would like to submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President 15, 22, 29 November, 06, 13, 20, 27 December 2011 and 03 January 2012, without discussing verbal questions and other audit issues, discussing the agenda's legislation and proposals and other jobs from the commissions, 07, 14, 21, December 28, 2011, and Wednesday (January 4, 2012) the uninterview of oral questions, 15, 22, 29 November 06, 13, 20, 27 December 2011 and 3 January 2012, between 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. 02, 03, 16, 17, 23, 24, 30 November, 01, 08, 14, 15, 21, 22, 28, December 29, 2011, 04, 05 January 2012, Wednesday and Thursday, between 2:00 and 11:00 p.m. It's recommended.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0168par0037	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0166par0038	Mr. Tarhan, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0168par0041	Mr. President, what the AKP Group has brought, or, in fact, imposed on the Supreme Assembly in Article 87 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0166par0042	Mr. Tarhan, you're not being heard. Would you please enter the system?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0168par0044	Mr. President, I don't want to waste any time, if anyone can hear me, please. ... It is the duty of the Supreme Assembly to oversee the Council of Ministers and the ministers under Article 87 of the Constitution, Mr. President, to seek asylum.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0166par0046	Mr. Tarhan, if you'd like to sit down and explain on the microphone...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0168par0047	We have been given an example of the decisions made by the Council of Counsellors, and this is what we face today. There is a clear violation of Article 87 of the Constitution. I'm saying the House's audit mission is being compromised by this proposal today. We are trying to avoid doing parliamentary research, this proposal to prevent discussion of parliamentary research. It's a very typical example of the majority sultan, the majority practice, which doesn't surprise us, but we protest from here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0166par0049	Thank you. Mustafa Elitaş is in favor of the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0056	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Two times today, Mr. President has taken five minutes to get the group's vice presidents to form an alliance in two matters, but he has to take a 20-minute break. It has come to this point, frankly, again, in the 1970s, in terms of what we've been looking at from the 1980s, from the 1990s, in terms of whether or not the Constitution was contrary to the Civil Code in the interim process of our Speaker. Look, dear friends, yesterday was the day of the verbal question. Two ministers waited here until 7:00 p.m. The Minister of Energy and the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs asked the questions, Mr. Ministers worked with their teams, and they waited here to answer verbal questions until 1900. Three political parties had group proposals. We also discussed the group proposals of the three political parties -- the group proposal of the BDP, the MPP, the CHP, and the group proposal, and voted. During our meeting and voting, yesterday, after two MPs finished talking about the Republican People's Party's group proposal, the Parliamentary General Assembly's work time would not be enough, since our work period would end tomorrow at 14 p.m. I'm shutting down the General Assembly to discuss other matters with the bill and proposals at 00..... Mr. Speaker of Parliament. Now, the two ministers of oral questions came here, and they were here to answer questions that we believe are very valuable by lawmakers, but the political party groups gave group suggestions to bring the agenda to a different point. Dear friends, in the work we've done so far, we always say that there are things that we don't agree with the majority of us, but with the Constitutional Compromise Commission, as we know a lot of examples of other things, in the 23rd term, with our fellow National Movement Party Deputy Directors, friends of the Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, friends of the Party of Peace and Democracy Group, friends and the Council of Counsellors, perhaps more than group proposals. Now, our friends from both the Republican People's Party and our fellow MPs from the AK PARTY group say this shouldn't be the state of the National Assembly of Turkey. They say that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shouldn't be what we see from outside and shouldn't be what we live from now. What are they saying? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey supervises. How does he control it? Those who answer verbal questions asked by our fellow MPs do their inspections by answering them. On the other hand, an alliance with political parties' research proposals is met.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0170par0062	Why should we have an alliance?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0063	As a matter of fact, within the framework of our alliance, over 40 ▪ of the research commissions that we established in the past period, commissions were set up and worked with research proposals.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0170par0064	Why should we form an alliance, pre-negotiations...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0065	Most of them were brought up here on the last day of the 23rd term, by our friends, some 10 or so research commissions, the congresswoman's motion. Dear friends, the subject, the objection expressed, has nothing to do with the Civil Code, the Constitution, or the Constitution. Now, Mr. Deputy Secretary of the Group, my dear friend Mr. Vural, says: "You will prevent the discussion of our research proposals." As soon as your research proposals are read, it's on the agenda. Tomorrow, you'll make another group proposal -- on the Sabbath -- and in the group proposal you've given us, you'll say: you can propose a group of proposals for our research proposal, number 120, to be brought up today without discussing any other issues -- or to move on to other subjects after this is discussed. There's no obstacle to that.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0171par0068	You cannot reduce the right given in the Civil Code to group advice. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0069	On the other hand, the ruling party has turned down the opposition. The ruling party has turned down the opposition. There is a criticism. Don't! Mr. Vural, to give the ruling party the opportunity to speak more to the opposition, it's 2:00-23. We're giving you a chance to talk between 00. What more do you want?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0172par0070	You've been gracious!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0173par0071	And TV broadcasts at 11 p.m. Well, pull it up to 100.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0072	You're saying: "No, not like that; 15. 00-19. Let's talk at 00. We say we want to take advantage of the valuable ideas of the opposition. Let the opposition come here and speak.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0174par0073	You guys don't know what you're doing!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0074	Don't let him lie. Don't let him slander you. Don't let him get into other things and get people's blood pressure up.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0174par0075	You guys don't know what you're doing. You even planned the time for the budget to be discussed!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0076	But let's discuss what Turkey wants, what the Turkish people want here. Look, there was an incident yesterday. A speech made by our fellow congressmen, a member of parliament here, objected in a way that exceeded his purpose. You've objected to a statement of the late Turkesh, which we respect, which has cost us a lot of history, and we've corrected it. But dear friends, who are now the leader of our political party, who is the prime minister of our country, who is here to stand up and try to express his unspeakable insults, his religion, his faith, his beliefs, who he is, who he is, who he says, who he is, who he is, who he said he is, who he is, who he says is not fair to the mufti, if he is a teacher, who he is a teacher, and who he is a teacher of the primary school is not fair to the teachers. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I'm sad here. While you're trying to make a point here, you're wrong to see someone, the Prime Minister of this country, the president of a political party, 50 per cent of the country, with a 50 per cent vote just four months ago, the president of an eight-year-old political party, who's known for their actions, by doing this, or by doing this, or other way, and seeing our reaction here as unfair. Look, we had the same reaction to what was said about the late Prime Minister, and we warned our friend...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0174par0078	You're the one who started the trial! He's the head of the trial!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0079	But, please, members of the group presidents of our political parties, here, a political party that received a vote from a party, 22 million voters from this nation, a leader of a political party in the heart of half of 74 million people, who ruled this country for nine years, and brought Turkey to an honorable level among the world states, not only passive...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0174par0080	So it's taboo? Your base?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0081	...the criticism of the Prime Minister of this country, which has made it an effective policy in its region, and unfairly offending, should all of us be opposed.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0174par0082	Why do you object to criticism? Is that your plate?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0083	Sixty-one governments have been established in the time that has come to this day. We have complete faith that the prime ministers of the 60th government, the presidents of that party, are working in the interests of this country, but they may have made a mistake, or we may have made a mistake...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0174par0084	We've got eyes, you've got eyes!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0085	...but I think it's the greatest betrayal of this country's democratic system, frankly, by describing these mistakes, these wrongs, or things that you don't recognize as right, what we see as right.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0175par0086	Mr. President, what does this have to do with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0087	Dear friends, criticism is right, criticism is natural, but we need to adjust the measure and style of this criticism, and we need to get a good look at the dosage. We're trying and we're not bringing up the leader of any political party, offending, personal issues, and we're not bringing them up.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0176par0088	Who was it that used the words "bastardly" and "bastardly" and "bastardly"?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0089	We're also warning our congressman friends, but if someone makes a claim that they don't even have...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0176par0090	You insult me on the one hand, and then you say, "No."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0091	...and if this claim brings out resentment in the hearts of the people, be honorable, be honorable, be honorable. We say: "Those who do not bring these matters up are dishonest and dishonest, and those who do not prove them are not. (Applause from the PARTS) We are not dealing with honor, not with dignity.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0176par0092	That's your style, I'll give it back to you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0177par0093	It has nothing to do with the motion.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0094	We don't deal with personality, we don't deal with families.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0177par0095	He's picking on the opposition. About the past...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0096	Without dealing with the personality of the people who take our responsibility to the people we're dealing with, we're going to have Turkey's unity and unity in this process.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0178par0097	Mr. Elitaş, can you talk to me about the motion, please?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0098	Mr. President, I'm always talking about the motion.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0179par0099	What does that have to do with the motion?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0100	In the meantime, Turkey is in desperate need of unity and unity, we have the obligation to run the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Look, dear lawmakers, what are our working conditions? It's 2:00-23 today. 00, Thursday at 2:00-23. 00, 15:00-20 on Tuesdays. 00, we'll discuss oral questions as well. Opposition group vice presidents say: "You interrupt our right to speak, you block the authority of our MPs from the 87th Amendment of the Constitution." Mr. Group Deputy President reads in Article 87 of the Constitution: You try to stop the ministers by asking questions, by giving them research proposals, by giving them the geneor... on Article 102, 103, the genealogical issues in the business, but in your act yesterday, you try to stop the ministers from answering the questions your own MPs have to ask. It's probably the first time in history we've seen anything like this. The authority says, "Let the opposition speak, and let him come here to tell you of his troubles." It's not enough in our four-hour time. The opposition says we don't want to talk. Let the opposition tell us what they think, and we'll take advantage of those ideas.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0180par0102	But you guys should talk. And do not be a dumb devil against the wrong-doing. I invite you to speak.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0169par0103	We've set this agenda until January 5th. It means I'm in favor of the group motion, and I'm paying respects.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0181par0105	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan has asked for a statement against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0182par0108	Okay, we agree with what you're saying, but you'll respect the other side.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0183par0109	That's right, there'll be mutual respect.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0184par0110	You have no respect for people!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0111	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the AK PARTY motion. Last semester, after the 2007 elections, we met with similar motions as soon as we arrived. At 13.30 today, 14 minutes before today, the Secretary General called our directorship and announced that there was a Council of Counsellors, 14 minutes before 13.30. In 14 minutes, I wondered why the notice had been made. Because the CHP had a call, and the MPP had no call, and we didn't. And when I left, it was five minutes after 13.30. Of course, when a party vice president does not show up, according to Article 19, the Council does not exist, and of course it does not. Now we know why, such a motion... Guys, we have a pirate motion coming in in the last 14 minutes. Look, this pirate proposal is a motion that fundamentally affects the democratic system, undermines the House's reputation, undermines the working environment, poisons, destroys, destroys the working hours until January, and most importantly ignores all control mechanisms in Article 98 of the Constitution. Now, we're having these arguments. Let's assume that you agree to this motion, your vote is high; there will be no motion to investigate in parliament, no discussion of the geneor, no general discussion, no parliamentary investigation. The Constitution has 98 provisions, the House has an audit mission. Is there any other authority the opposition would use from the Constitution? No. If there is a violation of the Constitution, it is discussed primarily in a motion. In fact, in the proposals and drafts of the law, the Civil Code 84 states that the amendment proposals are first discussed. This is a proposal, and since there is no bill, this party's proposal for a unilateral arrangement of the House to work all the way to January 5th. This motion is not merely a motion to silence the opposition. Look, I control the agenda in these eight MPs who are under arrest, not the agenda of Turkey's real agenda but the majority of me in parliament, the legislature in me, the administration in me, the administration in me, the administration in me, the last Constitutional amendment, the judiciary in me, the power union is the most dangerous form of totalitarian governance in a country. This motion is a manifestation of that understanding. It's a motion that leaves you alone with your democratic faith and sincerity. I have a very good joke to tell about the possibility of this motion of yours, but it doesn't fit the Council's conversation. But let me tell you, you did something similar last year. You made a motion, and I said from here, that's not a motion, folks. They said it was okay. Most of us, they said, we do it. I said no brother. They said, "Why not?" By God, February is 29 every four years, but not 30 February in a thousand years!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0186par0115	So there's been a financial error.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0116	Financial error... that's financial error, that's brain failure, that's worse!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0187par0117	Spiritual error!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0118	It's brain failure! Look, if the brain isn't indexed to the democratic reflex and the Constitutional Parliamentary regime, with a totalitarian and dictatorial understanding, I'll run it, and you'll be the subject model here. Opposition groups will be here, we will say, we will make a decision... the office of the law will cut your bids to the commission, the General Secretary of Parliament will work for you, the Assembly's commissions will work for you, you will shut down all groups of friends of parliament, including Israel, and then you will talk about democracy, a new democracy, a new Constitution.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0188par0120	There is no group of Israel, and there is no group of Israel.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0121	Look, with your understanding of this, I'm not claiming the 5th of January, but you can't predict the 15th of this month in the future of Turkey as a party.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0188par0122	That's why we got 50% of the vote, right?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0123	You can't predict what will happen to Turkey or what's ahead of it or what's going to happen to Turkey in the 15th. What do you predict three months from now?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0188par0124	We're in 2023, in 2023.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0125	Look, there are budget talks every year between 15 and 25. Budget talks are held non-stop, friends and budget talks are the most important time of the Assembly's meeting. Now, when you look at these clocks, your Parliamentary calendar, your budgetary schedule, I'm telling you as a former member of the Plan and Budget Commission, it doesn't fit.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0189par0126	Financial error, financial error.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0127	And that's a financial error, if not a financial error, let's say a financial error, which creates a bit of a mental error, friends, a mind-set perspective. Don't you know that every December there's a budget interview and every December there's a budget meeting, the leaders are talking, the ministry budgets are being discussed, you know how many hours it takes? You know that. Well, now that you know it, you're going to define it with this proposal, and then we've made a mistake, and we're going to change it, and we're going to make another motion... there's no point in keeping the House busy with these pirate proposals. If we hadn't negotiated four groups in parliament, the basic laws would have been passed in 12 years. Look, I'm telling you straight up, the Turkish Trade Law, the Law of Debts, the Law enforcement Act came out of agreement with an advisory board that I'm in, and it came out in a month. Now, there's work to be done in 12 years. There's work to be done in a month from this House. If you develop dialogue, co-operation, co-operation, the opposition is ready. Well, I'm going to ask you this: I sincerely want to ask all groups, and I want to review this. The Parliament called on the groups to compromise on three issues last term. One was the Civil Charter, the other was the Constitution, and the other included other current issues. Only groups in the Civil Code have reached an agreement. One of our friends from each group went to work. After this study, a draft was drawn up. This draft is standing right now. I mean, we know the Civil Code of Congress is old, but for it to work more efficiently, it's still there. I'm a member of this Internal Charter Commission, my party and it's on hold in the freezer. Now it's impossible to come to terms with this one-sided majority understanding, friends, when we agree here in that Civil Charter, where we agree on what we call pluralism, participation, democracy. Look, there's a problem with arrested lawmakers, there's a problem with freedom of thought, there's a problem with organization; there's basic issues about earthquakes; there's a search, a solution process; there's a situation where teachers have the most to discuss; there's severance, there's a problem with fair income distribution; there's tax justice; there's an independent judiciary issue; there's a secret wiretap; there's a secret investigation; there's a secret witness; there's an independent judiciary problem. If you ignore all of our problems, if you pretend all of this doesn't exist, and we can't talk about these things that are Turkey's real agenda, I swear, I swear...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0190par0131	Tillahi!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0185par0132	There are three groups here, the opposition. If this makes you run Parliament like this, I'm telling you something, we're gonna have to sit down and apologize to the public. We're not gonna make you work like this, I'm telling you. Come, let's compromise, let's end this with dialogue. And I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0191par0135	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Ramadan Can is a member of the Party for Justice and Development, who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0192par0139	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. I hereby salute your delegation. Mr. President, even if this group proposal is to be adopted tomorrow, the Republican People's Party, the Peace and Democracy Party, the Nationalist Movement Party can change the group's proposal by recommending a new group. And tomorrow, with a different group proposal, we can change this group proposal and make the agenda a different one. Thus, it was not appropriate to refer to the 87th article of the Constitution here. We're looking at Article 87 of the Constitution. The duties and powers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey continue to enact, change, and remove the law.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0193par0142	What else? Control...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0192par0143	So it's impossible to tell if there's something that lifts it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0194par0144	No audit duty, Congressman?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0193par0145	Why don't you read it all, you must have forgotten!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0192par0146	On the other hand, one of the control functions of the House is the discussion of verbal questions. On Tuesdays, we also suggest that we discuss verbal questions in this group proposal. In this group proposal, we will discuss oral questions on Tuesdays from November 15, 2011 to January 30, 2012. Verbal questions are one of the House's control functions. On the other hand, we will continue to discuss other issues, as the bill and proposals from the commissions are discussed. Thus, the government is being stripped of control. The reason is not in order. On December 7, 2011 to Wednesday, January 4, 2012, we will not discuss verbal questions. On Tuesdays, November 15, 2011 to January 30, 2012, we propose that the House operate between 3:00 and 8:00 p.m. Again, starting today, we propose that Wednesdays and Thursdays, between 2:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., the House be run until the first week of January. Therefore, running the House through a very busy period would be in favour of opposition parties, allowing them to speak more. Therefore, there is no reason for the House to take away its constitutional powers. The AK PARTI group proposal we present to parliament wishes to be accepted, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0195par0155	Thank you, Mr. Can. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0196par0159	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, I would like to address our esteemed MPs who have joined our Parliament this semester: Are you pleased with the way the House works, the way it works as a result? Dear friends, in the eyes of God and in the eyes of the nation... we are not playing the game of steel, we have no right to race each other's minds. We have a duty to establish a law that will solve people's problems. With its power, we here have the obligation to establish law in matters that society expects of us, that we have committed to society. We've completed a month, it's been four weeks. We haven't legalized a public matter yet. The international contracts we're interviewing here are government contracts. We spent time enforcing these contracts, arguing with each other. There's a bill of law that aims to change the national and even the Parliament's Civil Code. We agreed on the commission to bring him here. The dress code... there, unfortunately, was withdrawn from that bill, which had not yet been negotiated, in violation of an illegality of the Parliamentary Presidency, and the decision of the Council of Counsellors, which we agreed here, was eliminated. Mr. Elitaş, I've had this conversation many times in the past term. Dear friends, we have to run the House. It's what Mr. Elitas said earlier. Yes, this Parliament must work, meet the expectations of the nation, establish the law, stay within the law. We don't do our duty to the nation by breaking the law, by breaking the law, by making its own law, by breaking the law, by breaking the law in the words of Mr. Nicema, by competing with each other, by competing with each other. Look, dear MPs, our first Council of Counsellors decision is on the 4th of the month, on the 4th of October; we signed together, four groups. We set the agenda of the House, and we said, "Let's discuss these laws in these working times, according to these calendars. Again, we've changed the ranks at the request of the ruling group. The opposition parties, who didn't object, signed again because we insist. You have been given the responsibility of managing Turkey by our nation. So it is your discretion to prioritize the laws that this country needs, and you will. We don't object to that. You bring it here, you say, or the government demands that we discuss this law. You bring it in, we talk about it. We don't object to that, but here's the thing we object to. Dear lawmakers, we are obliged to come up with a solution here, with power and opposition, even with the dynamics of the whole community, by creating a common mind, by agreeing with the civil society. Otherwise I did it, I got 50 percent of the vote, what I'm doing is right, what I'm saying is right. You can't create a common mind with faith. Such an approach would not be democratic, nor would it be wise. Compromising is an obligation, under the necessity of democracy, the obligation of this House, but the responsibility to insist on securing reconciliation, to ensure reconciliation is in political power, the ruling group. But every time we arrive, every time we reach a compromise you bring us, the ruling party breaks it down again, every time. You'll see this through to the end, and we'll come to the end and repeat this conversation from here, dear friends. Now, I'm very, very politely saying that if you accept this proposal from this group, which you have brought in today, which I think the Speaker of the House has coerced himself to support, which is contrary to the Constitution and the Civil Code, as we say, by this group's suggestion, we plan eight weeks, eight weeks. As Mr. Kaplan said, as Mr. Oktay Vural said, you plan to ignore budget talks. In December, we will discuss the budget as a constitutional obligation and work until the tours are over, working late in the morning, until early in the morning. Well, now that you've made your determination here, you'll be working until the tours are over, it's 23 o'clock. Not until 00. You have to change the decision of this Council. Tomorrow, the government brings in another offer, and you'll be forced to change it again. Now, I'm telling you from here, Mr. Elitaş, I'm telling you: if you're going to stand behind this Council of Counsellors, if you're not going to change that, I've given up, I've given up. If you're not going to say it, let's call it the National Movement Party Group. Are you up for that?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0197par0168	We're in, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0198par0169	Don't make another motion next week, Mr. Elitaş!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0196par0170	Dear friends, don't make fun of people's minds. You don't see the tip of your nose. I don't speak to Mr. Mahir Ünal, or this friend of ours. I speak to him, my friend, my friend. How can you let this mistake be done? How this nation, this House, the support of your own group, the will... it's disrespectful to me. Aren't you, as group management, obliged to do the right thing as the will to determine the agenda of the House? Don't you have a obligation to maintain the agreed-upon compromise? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I don't mean to offend you, but I do remind you of your responsibility. If you have a decision to ignore Parliament, if you don't need Parliament's work... which we started with an argument, Mr. Prime Minister isn't coming here, is there no Parliament? It doesn't fill the fig core, it's what we've been discussing for a month. Look, almost every part of society has problems. The olive harvest has begun -- I'm telling the Mediterranean MPs, the Aegean lawmakers -- the olive producers are shaking. How much will he sell it for? He's selling green olives for $500, 50 cents today. Dear friends, they expect a solution from us. So are the milk producers. All parts of society are staring at us, and there's a solution waiting, pensioners waiting, workers waiting... Now that the Minister of National Education is here, I would have told you if he had promised, we've lost more than 60 teachers. I mean, isn't the Minister of National Education supposed to have a ceremony in the program about these teachers? Society's waiting here, but, really, we're busy here fighting each other's minds, racing each other's minds. Now, as a result, we had a compromise, and we had these group proposals, and the purpose of the group proposals, friends, is that the international contract has no social response, so none of you are interested in the selection of international contracts. And we say, as opposition lawmakers, let's talk about the problems of animalism because animal manufacturers are in trouble. That's what group suggestions mean. It's your problem, too, not just ours, and you come and talk. Now, as a result, do you think you're profiting because you can't maintain this compromise? Look, there are 45 international contracts here. I've been proposing for two days, so let's make a package of what we're not going to talk about in these international contracts, and as an example of a compromise, I've expressed it to Mr. Mahir Ünal. Let's do this.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0199par0176	They refused, but...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0196par0177	They refused, dear friends. Now, there's a conclusion waiting for you. Look, you see this, it's red. What's this? In all of these international contracts, we will speak as Nationalist Action Party, both on behalf of the group and as lawmakers. You'll be unable to get one international contract a day here. Is that right now? Dear friends, I mean, by compromise, together... you're changing the agenda, why don't you ask us? Let's change together.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0200par0179	We're not changing the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0196par0180	This is wrong; you're leading badly, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0200par0182	Mr. Chancer, we're not changing the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0196par0183	You run this coven badly, and you're not fair to your own group. I'm reporting you to the public and your group. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0201par0186	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0202par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0201par0188	I submit the group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0203par0189	We want enough numbers for the meeting, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit04spe0201par0192	Mr. Vural, Mr. Tallırmak, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Yilmak, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Right. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the AK PARTI group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0201par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 1st in the Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0204par0008	The commission is here, there is no government.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0205par0009	He's here, sir. He's coming.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0206par0010	Here, sir, the government is here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0204par0011	Mr. President, please... I mean, Mr. President, that's not gonna happen! The commission is here, you're looking for the government. See if he's here or not, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0206par0012	No, he's here, he's here, he's here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0204par0013	You mean, the lobby minister? Mr. President, I mean...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0207par0014	I have to look at the General Assembly. I'm going to have to call the Commissioner and the government.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0204par0015	You're not even asking.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0207par0016	Mr. Secretary was just sitting here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0204par0017	You don't look, you don't even ask. If you say...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0208par0018	He asked.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0207par0019	Well, I didn't ask, I'm looking at Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0204par0020	You don't ask after you've seen it, Mr. President, so...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0207par0021	I mean, do I have to do this right away, Mr. Vural? (x) 40 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0204par0023	Where is the government? The question is...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0207par0024	The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 40 rows. On top of the whole bill, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP, wants to speak for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0209par0029	Mr. Oktay, buy yourself a pair of glasses, it'll be useful.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0210par0030	You should get combs, too!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0211par0031	Do you want us to give you something else, too?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0212par0032	Please, Mr. Secretary... please, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0211par0033	You're a fucking plagiarist! You're no fucking Minister! You couldn't sit there! Be a fucking sitting man!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0213par0035	Let's all wake up first.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0211par0036	You don't even know how to make a promise! You're the pirate minister!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0214par0037	Mr. Vural, please... please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0215par0038	Mr. President, this is the first time we've seen anything like this.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0211par0039	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0215par0040	How dare a minister talk like that!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0211par0041	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0216par0042	Mr. Vural... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0217par0044	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0216par0045	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0218par0046	Mr. President, Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0219par0047	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0216par0048	Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0218par0049	Mr. President, I don't want to have this kind of...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0216par0050	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0220par0051	Learn to sit here first, he's insulting the House.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0218par0052	You do! Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0221par0053	I'm not talking to the House. I'm telling you something.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0222par0054	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0221par0055	Something like that!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0223par0056	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0224par0057	Mr. President, this is no way to interfere with a minister. Please warn him. They're talking to a minister, remember that.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0225par0058	What the hell if he's a minister? He's talking to the minister... he can't talk!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0226par0059	What do you mean, glasses on your eyes?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0227par0060	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0228par0061	Watch your language. You'll have to watch your language here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0229par0062	I never pay attention. I speak for everyone. If you're an officer, you're an officer, I'm not an officer.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0230par0063	Who do you think you are?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0231par0064	That can't be a word.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0232par0065	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0233par0066	What a rude person you are!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0234par0067	What kind of kindness do you think it fits? I'm not going to learn about kindness from you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0233par0068	I'm telling the President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0235par0069	Mr. Vural, please... I promise you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0236par0071	What if you say you don't have it while I'm here?! Is there such an indecency?!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0235par0072	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0237par0073	I'm telling the president.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0235par0074	Please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0238par0075	What kind of minister does he call you? Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0237par0076	You should be here when the bill is discussed. Or what? We'll call you? Are we going to file a missing persons report?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit05spe0235par0077	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0235par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 40, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0239par0007	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised the views of the National Movement Party on Bill 40. I hereby salute your high council. The bill was sent by the Prime Minister to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 27/4/2011. What bill? The bill of the Law on Multi-Substantial Investment Guarantees is in accordance with the amendments made in Articles. And he's making the most of it, Mr. Prime Minister. What's the motive? The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation is part of the World Bank Group. What's his name? MIGA. What's this organization doing? He aims to ensure that the developing country's economies will attract private investments and increase direct foreign investments in these countries, provided guarantees against investors' political risks. We're low enough to say we don't have a share, our share is $8.8 million, our total share is 814, our vote is 48 per thousand. This institution has guaranteed foreign capital investments in our country since 1991. As of November 30, 2010, the total amount of guarantees provided by the MIGA for foreign capital investments in our country are 1.2 billion dollars. It guarantees foreign investments here, so I'll point out. Meanwhile, as of November 30, 2010, Turkish investors' investments in other countries are guaranteed only $177.5m by the same organisation. It guarantees our outside investments, as we put it, very small. The structure of the contract was an obstacle to the development goal. That's why the switch came up, and it came up in 2009. It was intended to expand the scope and diversity of the guarantees offered by the MiGA, to increase guarantees in developing countries, to harmonise market implementation in the field of political risk guarantees, and to increase the capacity of the MIGA to carry out its mission. The ballot for ratification of amendment proposals created in this scope was passed to members of the country's commanders on July 30, 2010, which was approved by our country on July 14, 2010, to express their opinion. In this respect, the amendment proposals were adopted by member states, which took place on November 14, 2010, in MlGA's favor, and it's already done. So, what was the purpose of the bill? It was expected to increase the opportunity to attract foreign direct investments directly, as a result of the expansion of coverage and the diversification of guarantee tools that could be achieved by the MIGA for investments in our country. Now, I've looked at the Foreign Affairs Commission report. Tali commissions: Plan and Budget Commission; Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission. There's no mistake in the analogy, big fat commissions. I was a member of one last semester, a member of another, now. When I got the number of lines, I was going to attend this meeting, and when it was understood that I was going to speak, I called my Commissioner: Did something like this happen to you? At least here, we need to know that the President of the Commission, the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, has not shown any interest in this commission. I assure you, in regard to these foreign investments, members of the Plan and Budget of both power and opposition are very sensitive, interested, express opinions. But that's what happens when you do a job from the forbidden savant. Now this is an economic event, investment means industry. He's already given up power industry, and strategy and so on and so forth and so forth and so forth and so forth and so forth and so forth and so forth. It's a shame about the work. Where did the interior share of the manufacturing industry come from during the AKP? He came toward the 15th. Now, to point out that I want to care about this, it's a shame about the work. The State Commission report comments on the basis of the bill. The second is to strengthen the capacity to carry out the MIGA mission in negotiations in the Commission... what's that to us? What's in it for us? Where's the number size? How much will Turkey receive? How much risk is there in Turkey to guarantee the risk of foreigners here? It's not because Turkey looks good. Look, $1.2 billion guarantees what the stranger's doing for his problems here. 177 million dollars for your outside investments... is there or isn't it? I specifically stated, do the other commissions, the commissions, have opinions? I specifically asked them what they were thinking, what they were doing. You're bringing it, it's signed. Let it be done, no matter what! Good or bad? Now, in terms of taking advantage of guarantees, it is appropriate for investors to be able to apply directly without application for a member country, reduce bureaucratic barriers, and only the first investment, international investors in a country, to buy a company, to grow or modernise, to be able to benefit from the MIA guarantee. Those are big words. There's no account on the evaluations, I just told you. Matter reasons -- thank you -- don't exist. There's no comparison to the changes. This has been changed. It is unclear who knows what, what commission, who signed what, what, what. Now, tomorrow, those who work on these issues, those who write about it in universities, those who work on the upcoming Commissions, the laws that will come out tomorrow, those who are interested in changes, will refer to our talks here. What are they gonna say about this reference thing? We'd be doing this if anything came our way, but there's nothing coming. Now, if you hadn't actually brought these here and made a new arrangement, you could've passed them all with a last-minute bill of law, just like you did with the others. If it wasn't serious, it was random. As a matter of fact, under the law... With that law of authority, you've been messing with the system with the laws of the law. It's gonna take at least a decade to get him back on the rails, to get it organized. According to his man, according to him, you're setting up legislation according to his officer there. Where in the world was that seen? Now, look, no one's talking about MIA's 2012-2014 fiscal year strategy. There are such strategies. Look, the priority is to provide support for the financial sector of Europe and Central Asia, especially the first impact of the crisis, not that kind of investments. Mr. President, lawmakers, let's take a look at this matter. As it is known, foreign investments have both legal and economic dimensions. In particular, a number of legal and political protections and guarantees regarding foreign investments, which will invest in foreign investors and foreign investments, due to the lack of low-developed and developing countries' economic and political stability. As a matter of fact, many attempts have been made to create an international code in the field of foreign investments. There is a three-way separation in law literature in terms of the legal provisions for foreign investments and foreign investments. Legal regulations on the subject of foreign investors and/or foreign investments are also classified as the national legislation of the invested country, the investment agreement between investors and the country signed and international agreements. A bilateral distinction is also being made in terms of international agreements. It is classified as international agreements and multilateral international agreements and bilateral international agreements. Apart from the network of bilateral agreements on mutual protection and incentives of investments, there are two international contracts today trying to ensure that investments, which Turkey is also a party to, are protected by certain dimensions of international law. One is the Washington Convention on investment discrepancies between investors of other states known as the ICSID Convention. The second is the Multi-sided Investment Guarantee Foundation Convention, which was made to protect investments from non-frequency risks and is referred to as an MIGA acronym for which we are meeting. These contracts came from the work carried out by the World Bank. It has been approved by Turkey and has been transferred to Turkish civil law. So both contracts have become part of Turkish law. One of the remarkable early developments in the OECD, which could be called multilateral protection of foreign investments, began negotiations on MAI as a multilateral investment agreement, but later failed with the impact of the worldwide public responses. MIGA and ICSID are the head of multilateral international regulations on the protection of foreign investments, as I mentioned earlier. Multilateral Investment Guarantees Agency MIGA is a member of the World Bank group. Its goal is to provide political -- I draw attention to -- risk insurance and encourage foreign direct investments to help developing economies attract private investments. In other words, the MIGA, a multilateral investment guarantee company, appears as a structured organisation within the World Bank group, and provides protection for investments, including restrictions on publicisation, foreign exchange transfers, war or riot-like political risks. Now, the government has brought this. The Libyan incident is on the scene. We have a lot of investments there. Now, in exchange for these investments, are there any of our businessmen who are subject to MIA? How much was it? Do we know any of this? Are we being told any of this? You testified on the commission. Has it ever been written here, drawn here? The House doesn't know about this. Have the commissioner draw up all the paperwork he wants. After you don't know it, after we don't tell you, no one knows it, it'll pass. Now, the MIGA rule guarantees political insurance for the investment of a member state investor in another developing country. In other words, the MIGA operates in the form of some kind of insurance company, guaranteeing political risks. The answer to the question of why MIA has emerged, as well as private insurance companies, is that the risk here is more than a trade risk and private insurance companies refrain from insuranceing such a risk and/or demanding very high premiums. Now, the Eximbankers are begging. What did you give them as a risk bonus? Minister, talk to me, tell me. He is actively co-operating with public and private political risk insurance providers through joint insurance and resuscitation arrangements to insure investment projects that fit the MIGA. These co-operation efforts significantly increase the current insurance capacity for applicants who want to expand their jobs in developing countries. MIGA guarantees insurance for up to 15 years, as far as I know. The MIGA can't break the warranty unless the guarantee holder defaults on its current obligations to the MIGA, but the guaranteed owner can reduce or increase the insurance after the third anniversary of the contract. I've just said that the Supreme Assembly is not informed of this institution's 2012-2014 fiscal-year strategies and so on. It's not expressed here, but if the number is added to one side, if it's discussed, if it's drawn a little bit, if it's all public knowledge. Now that we're saying something, what do we get out of it? We signed this, this was signed before you, we're bringing in the changes, we're discussing the changes here. It's already been accepted, in effect. Now, you bring this in here as if it's the most urgent matter in the country, and you argue, but what do you do in addition to that? You're not giving any information to the High Council. You're not giving me any information. I don't think they're being seriously examined by power or anything. Bureaucracy is doing its job, bringing it in front of you, you have to sign it. There's something I'd like to express here: Now, why would he go into this kind of business, Turkey? Turkey needs foreign resources. We'll consider it today, we'll consider it yesterday, we'll consider it inadequacies. That's the basic problem here. This event, this change that we're going to make, does it respond, does it contribute, does it help? We need to take a look at this. We need to go public, to the High Council, to see what our work has done for the country. These can come, you can talk about them, but we need to discuss what to do with the public. Now, the Supreme Assembly is here, working overtime on this, the commissions are in the same way, the commissions are out, they're out, and they're out of interest, but is there a reward for what's done here, for what it's done, for what it's worth, for what it's done here, for what it's done, for what it's done here, for what it's done here, for what it's done? You really need to take a look at this. We know that AKP does not care about these matters. The bill of law is coming, the word on the bill is narrowed down, and it is written in hand. That's how serious it can be. We know that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we really need to look at these things properly and assess them from the point of view of the country. Thank you, Mr. President. I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0240par0039	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP asking for the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0241par0042	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council of Ministers and the Foreign Affairs Commission Report that the amendments to Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Commission are appropriate. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, I salute you all. Sure, there's a lot of contracts. ▪ It is called Technique. It is called Matthew. It's called bureaucrats already. Let's not talk about it like that and let's not argue in Parliament. Well, that's the technical stuff. Let's raise our hands, lower our hands, make moves like pumps. Let it be over, the House has made a law, a contract. When you try to run the legislature in such a manner of understanding, then you can't possibly understand the schemes that are going on over Turkey, the vortexes that are being pulled into Turkey, the capital movement in the economic area, how the new order of the world is being shaped again in the Middle East, the conflict processes in the Middle East, the reflection of it in Turkey, the national reflection of freedoms, democratic rights and freedoms, the pressures of demands, the pressure, gas, tomas, and panzers. Now, you're looking at this contract, the multi-sided Investment Guarantee Foundation in the World Bank group, the short name for MIGA. It was founded on April 12, 1988. What did Turkey do? Just after April 27th, April 12th - 27th, 15 days later, he confirmed it. Well, Turkey is a member of MIA. 88, and it's 2011. What is the potential for this in Turkey? What's his potential? What have we done all these years? Well, I guess a man can account for that. I'm talking about an organization that has 0.48 percent vote power. Our voting power, look, I'm talking about an organization of 0.48 percent, which is 48 percent in a thousand. What organization is this? That's how it is, MIA. So, what's Turkey? The world's 16th largest economy. Mr. Prime Minister Paris will attend the G-20 summit tomorrow. The world's best resistance in this crisis, the financial sector is standing, liquidity is flowing, hot money flows to Turkey, the stock markets are up and there is no one below the age of perfect prosperity, no one below the poverty line, no national income per capita income in a prosperous Turkey -- let alone divans -- has just begun budget talks. Friends, do we have the right to deceive the public, 74 million? For one thing, it's this thing called MIGA. It hits from here. Isn't that bad enough for us? ▪ Increased projects that can provide guarantees in developing countries. • Is it appropriate for the world's 16th largest economy? Does this look good on Turkey now? So if we're going to hand over law enforcement to our foreign bureaucrats, acting on behalf of Congress, then we don't have to come sit here. It's 23 o'clock. There's no point in extending such an agenda to 100, nor in sitting in vain; they shorten it. You make them all into a bag of laws, you put them on your back like a sack, you bring them back, you take them all out once. Now this contract is diversifying, coloring, enriching, and we're agreeing to redesign again. Where was this seen? The plan is in the Budget Commission. Well, brother, I'm there. I served four years on this Plan and Budget Commission. Tali didn't come as a commission, he didn't come, he didn't meet, he didn't talk. Is it ethical to write this to the Foreign Commission Report, which is not discussed or discussed in the commission? I mean, isn't it a legal question that should be ethically questioned? He was interviewed by the non-interviewed commissioner, the Department of Energy, Energy, of course Resources Technologies Commission... Where was he interviewed? No. If he's been interviewed, where's the report? There's a Commission, Foreign Affairs Commission Report. Friends, you write the commissions, you're the commission, you're the skin, then you jump, and then you bring it here, so let's not talk about it here, let's just say, that's the technical stuff... these things take away the freedoms of the countries. You know, these technical things, they take away the independence of countries. These technical contracts don't leave equality, justice, freedom in countries. It creates insecurity, unrest in countries. Now, we know who's doing what in the energy field here. We know what negotiations are made in the free market, in nuclear plants. We know which countries line up at the thermal plants and follow the tender. We know who's walking around the HES. 48,000 mining licenses have been distributed in my country. To the east and west, to the north, to the south, to the Aegean, and to Thrace, all over the country... in this land, in which there are 48,000 licenses and license markets, and in which the son of the hand will come with capital companies, and we will guarantee it, and we will sign it. Isn't it beautiful? What a beautiful country to rule. How much roses, how much peace, how much prosperity, how much peace... touch this contract a little bit, look at some place under your fingernails, what does it say? It says: "Even if there is a loss of value in the TLL, there is a guarantee of my project." &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Are you able to guarantee the guarantee of TL, the national money? Do you see the state of Greece? If Papandreou feels compelled to take the 100m-euro aid package to the referendum and argue whether to use the euro in Greece, let's discuss it. And if it shakes even the stock market in Turkey in one day, we need to read these small, technical, bureaucratic contracts that all European stock markets, America, Far East markets, Singapore, and Sydney. It's not that simple. What guarantee do they want from us, and what guarantee do they want from us? They invaded Iraq, confiscated Iraqi oil for 30 years, and issued a UN decision. Those who destroyed Iraq by order of the United Nations seized 25 per cent of Iraqi oil as a guarantee fund, which was confiscated as a guarantee fund. It's still there, the United Nations... it's there. We're looking at MIGA. MIGA wants to guarantee insurance companies, different investment companies. All right, let's do a mutual assessment. It's Arab Spring. What will happen to the MIA (MIGA) signed by Bin Ali in Tunisia? I'm asking. What about the MIA (Medhafi) signed by Gaddafi? What will happen to the MIA, signed by Mubarak? I'm asking. Ali Salih in Yemen signed a lot of MIGA, what's going to happen? Can you tell me what's going to happen? What are you looking for guarantees of? Who's guaranteeing who? For example, is there a guarantee of energy in Turkey? Guys, if you're looking for some guarantees, we need to talk about it here, bravely, sincerely. It does not come from MIA, from the World Bank, from the European Investment Bank. If the government wants to guarantee and end many economic development in Turkey, it is the largest guarantee that the government will open negotiations and dialogue processes that will establish peace for the Republic of Turkey, which is to continue the Oslo talks. You can't just show up there with 38 votes per thousand in the MlGA, you're guaranteed to solve your own problems. Or, when this country is drowned in the equation, whether it's security or freedom, it's always safe, after every ten years of beatings, it's this country that's come to this point, and that's what it's doing now. Now, as we speak about a new Constitutional process in Turkey, these projects, the fact that Turkey is the World Bank's guarantor... it's like a bailout contract, I'm asking who's doing it for whom. They said to vouch for you if you're not busy. You know, I'm a lawyer, in the executive files, in the...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0242par0054	If you don't have a job, vouch for a lot of money.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0241par0055	If you have a lot of money, vouch for it. When it's the 16th-largest economy, they want bail, right? Must be a lot of money, money... and a lot of money, Mr. Elitaş. Citizen doesn't have money in his pocket, pensioner doesn't have money in his pocket, shopper doesn't have money in his pocket, credit cards don't have money in his pocket, agriculture, farmers, peasants don't have money in his pocket. In the Aegean, who guarantees to whom in the land where grapes, figs, tobacco makers, nut makers in the Black Sea, grains in Thrace, all of them at the bottom, and all of them at the bottom of the earth? Now, in light of these guarantee agreements, you want us to take any of this without talking. This isn't going. Turkey will miss a big picture if it doesn't get all of these technical contracts in one lens at a time, and this is what happens on Wall Street. What's going on? In London, in Paris, in Rome, in Greece, in Athens, in Portugal, in Portugal, in Portugal, in Lisbon, in Madrid, in Madrid, when global capitalism, the workers of financial capital, in areas where it cuts people, who will protect the contracts, who will protect them? One thing, the capital companies realized, is that the order of the world is changing, that after the 2008 global crisis, there are no guarantees of their own capital, on the one hand the Arab spring, on the other the people's struggle for equality and freedom in the Middle East, on the other side of the world, when a righteous, fair economic division struggle develops, now they want to co-sign our treasure like a bankrupt bank. At one point, I find it very useful to say: I looked online earlier today, and Mr. Home Secretary says: "There are thousands of professors in Turkey, and one of whom has been arrested, so why don't you teach the government how to teach the people to fight?" Come on, if you love your God! You can be proud to have such a Home Secretary! You can be proud! He has just come out of the prosecution, has not yet received a lawyer, has not yet been charged with what he is accused of, the Home Secretary is speaking in this way to our member of the constitutional commission, where he is being held in a trial, which is unconscionably, unfairly, is interfering with the judiciary. Shut him up! Shut him up! Don't let this guy talk, don't let him talk! Someone's talking like that, somebody's talking like that, somebody's talking like that, some part of the body says, I don't know what it's saying. Friends, in such environments, if you play with the DNA of justice in countries where security is at risk, if you play with the DNA of the judiciary, if you handcuff your intellectuals, professors, artists, politicians and elected in this country, you don't need to do so much talking about democracy, you don't need to make a new constitution.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0243par0057	We'll do it together.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0241par0058	By God, the constitution which you shall bring forth shall be without the law of Hammurabi, or of Shuppilium. It'll all come back. Why? Because there is no human element, because there is no equality, because there is no freedom, because there is no justice, because there is no tolerance for the main language, because there is no tolerance for different cultures, there is no tolerance for different identities, there is no tolerance for equal citizenship, there is no tolerance for thinking, there is no tolerance for human being, there is no tolerance for opposition. Now, with these contracts, this government is going to go and invest a quarter of my citizen's taxes as collateral. Instead of doing this, let's get back to Turkey's agenda. This agenda will ruin you, these handcuffs will ruin you. The Kenan universe has not been recovered, none of the coupters have been recovered, none of the people who put the thinkers in jail have been cured, none of those who have not been able to solve the Kurdish problem. Look at the governments in your past, look at the leaders in your past, each of which has been erased from the scene of history as the architect of the insolution, and that's what's coming now. So we took a thousand people, cuffed them, locked them up. If you say, "The people will shut up and be lambs," you say, "I will take capital on one side, I will suppress freedom on the other, I will silence opposition on the other, I will do what I want, I will steal it, I will blow it. If you go, you will go to a dangerous place. It may be self-inflicted, but the moment you start harming this country, 74 million, the moment you fall behind in political and ruling democracy, the moment you go to the coup d'états that September 12th didn't do what the martial law courts didn't do, the moment you set up private security courts that did what the DGM did, I'm telling you, you can't even do it, not even the Constitution; you can't do it, I'm telling you. With that mentality, only history will question you, the people will question you, judge you. Don't think so, where and when the people's synergic power will break out... it's easy to come and vote in 49 percent, hiding behind the laws of September 12th, the dams, the electoral system. One day when these people are free to run, when they choose their free candidate, it's the day you all end up in politics, friends. These are our warnings. We look at each other in friendly, brotherly ways. Stop with the MIA and the hash and all that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Deal with the right things. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0244par0068	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Ali Haydar Öner, MP for the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0245par0072	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, after thirty-eight years of public service, I have the honor to address you for the first time in my political process to move the service to a new level. I give thanks to my fellow Ispartans who have done me this honor and to my humble citizens who have done my duty. Mr. President, one of the main reasons we're here is to be the voice of common sense, to speak the truth without fear of anyone. I stand before you for this purpose. Mr. President, during the session the other day, our esteemed Vice President Güldal Mumcu has immediately objected to the presentation of Lady Mumcu, the Minister of Justice. The chair is a place of neutrality. I went on the Internet, Mr. Minister of the Neutrality Warning, someone whose name came up under the title Ali Dibo.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0246par0075	Get to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0245par0076	Yes, I've come out on this stand to speak the truth. Those who don't realize it will.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0247par0077	Isparta's gonna be pissed. Get to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0245par0078	We're interested. Guaranteed multilateral contracts is an independent and free country's work. I'm aware that an independent and free country is speaking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so please be aware of it. Besides, I just got my hands on yesterday's reports, and I'm terrified. One of our esteemed deputies spoke highly of the rise of the reign, and he defied those who founded this House.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0248par0081	I wonder who he's got a beef with.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0245par0082	Yes, the reign has been lifted, but the regime of one man has been established, and fascism has been created.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0248par0083	I'm talking about national chief fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0249par0084	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0250par0085	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0251par0086	Mr. President, get in there first.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0250par0087	Same thing's happening all over the place. Please, we'll intervene here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0252par0088	This is a Parliament founded by the great Ataturk. Are you there, or are you here, a friend of ours?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0250par0089	Mr. Proposal, please address the General Assembly. Mr. Proposal, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0253par0090	This is my spot, you guys pick your spot.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0254par0091	Read it, read it! Read the other one!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0250par0092	Congressman, would you please sit down...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0254par0094	Whose signature is it, read it! Whose signature is where you sit?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0255par0095	Know your place! You're rude!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0256par0096	Yesterday you told the Prime Minister you were speaking in paranoia. Your 90-degree angles to apologize have appeared in the newspapers.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0255par0097	Speak up, Metiner! You can't call those people fascists!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0257par0098	Read it!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0258par0099	You're rude!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0255par0100	Know your place! You're saying it's rude.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0259par0101	Congressmans, would you please sit down...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0260par0102	Why do you feel uncomfortable with the great Ataturk?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0255par0103	Know your place! You can't say that. You're rude!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0261par0104	I'm talking to the national chief...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0262par0105	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0263par0106	Why do you feel uncomfortable with the innu? What did Big Ataturk do? What did he do, great Ataturk, listen!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0264par0107	Know your manners! Know your manners!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0265par0108	You can't say "fascist." They ran from the front to the front.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0266par0109	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0267par0110	Mr. President, our deputies...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0268par0111	Disrespectful!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0266par0112	Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0267par0113	...what the great Ataturk did, let's say. The great Ataturk has expelled the Kuvasimillites and the imperialists from the dorm, free and independent...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0268par0114	This is not your country.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0269par0116	You're going to apologize, sorry!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0270par0117	You're going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0271par0118	Congressmans, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0272par0119	...a leader who sided with international contracts by forming a country.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0273par0120	It says: "Affliction belongs to the nation unconditionally. " Under it is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. He's going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0274par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0273par0122	He's going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0275par0123	Let's hear the Hatibi's speech, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0276par0124	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, my representatives, my deputies... (CHP rows of noise) We don't want to make a statement against those who sit in hot seats and build this country, who set this nation free and independent, who set religion and conscience free, and we don't want to make them do it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0277par0125	You're talking about Mustafa Kemal!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0278par0126	Mr. President, we can't listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0276par0127	You can't say what you want. Those who don't respect their past can't build their future.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0278par0128	Mr. President, I mean, give me a warning.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0276par0129	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, what did Grand Ataturk do?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0279par0131	Congressmans, please take your seats.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0280par0132	You insult all Turkish elders!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0276par0133	The Alparslan...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0281par0134	Mr. President, we can't listen to the preacher. What do you want me to do? So who should we call? Who should we tell?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0282par0135	I understand, Mr. Vural. No, you're not calling anyone. The MPs will take their seats. It's as simple as that. But no one will interfere with every speaker. They'll respect you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0283par0137	Is the timer working, sir?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0284par0138	He's gonna take that back from the stand! He can't call him a fascist from this bench!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0282par0139	Please, have a seat. Don't move your hands. Please sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0284par0141	He'll get it back!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0282par0142	Please sit down...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0285par0143	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0286par0144	You'll find out you're not Ataturk!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0285par0145	You'll apologize from here! You'll apologize from here! This isn't a side TV screen.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0287par0146	Is this going to be a party!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0286par0147	You will learn that the national chief is Ismet Inönun. If you do not know, then you will know.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0287par0148	Dear Metiner! Dear Metiner!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0149	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You'll notice that. We'll teach you that.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0286par0150	We don't have a problem with Ataturk. Don't demagogue.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0151	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0286par0152	I don't take anything back.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0153	What did Big Ataturk do? He wiped off the enemy's boots of Asia Minor, which Alparslan had conquered. He has served both the Turkish nation and the Islamic world the greatest service. If you're here today, you owe it to the great Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0286par0155	Get over it, get over it, you...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0156	Yeah... What did great Ataturk do? On the one hand, Alparslan was ridding the enemy of the Anatolian that he had given to the Turks, which he had given to the Islamic world.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0286par0158	Now get off the back of the Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0159	...on the other hand, the great prophet, the blessed commander, Fatih, who conquered Istanbul, goes as they came. The leader who rids the enemy of the enemy, Ataturk. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Would you be here if it wasn't for Ataturk? Would your name be Mehmet Metiner?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0286par0162	We don't have a problem with Ataturk!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0289par0163	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0164	If it weren't for Mustafa Kemal, would our moon-star flag be flying in the sky with glory, with its martyr blood, with its crescent and its star? If it weren't for Ataturk, could the sacred call echo through minarets for five hours? If it weren't for Ataturk, could we have freedom of religion and conscience? [[Noises]] Don't shake your hand, citizen. O citizen, notice.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0290par0168	Mr. Proposal, please address the General Assembly, please, do not speak to each other.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0169	If it wasn't for Ataturk, he wouldn't even have the freedom to pray on Friday.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0291par0170	This isn't the place for an Indian history class!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0290par0171	Let's talk about the agenda, Mr. Öner, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0172	Had it not been for Ataturk, could the great poem of Mehmet Akif Ersoy, the Istiklal Anthem, be sung with enthusiasm?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0292par0173	You're abusing me! You're abusing me!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0174	The great Ataturk are the ones we owe thanks to today. I have two great leaders: One is an honorable citizen of the Republic of Turkey, and do not be afraid to tell the truth that our national leader Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0293par0176	Mr. President, give this fellow a heads-up, Mr. President, this guy's always talking, he's turned on.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0177	...another, as a Muslim, is the silent, mute devil of the Holy Prophet. To speak the truth in accordance with his warning. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, we need to speak some more facts after we've told them the facts about the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, that the Amendment to Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation is appropriate. Just last week, our Deputy Prime Minister, our former Parliament Speaker, Bulent Arinc Sir, was a great revolutionary in Macedonia, a pioneer, a leader, he said. The great Ataturk is a man who serves the Islamic world as well as the Turkish nation, and his last breath makes sense. If you don't know, don't act dirty! Ataturk the Great said in his last breath, "Peace be upon you." Indeed, those who invent lies about it are in a state of concealment. And those who invent lies about it are among the people of the right hand. What do you mean, gobble? What's a Gulul? O faithful brothers and sisters, it means to extend a hand with a smile. The Prophet says Haram is two ways. He says, "One meal and one to let him be eaten." You have not brought the lighthouse defendants before the judge for three years. You had the prosecutors replaced after you had them removed.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0294par0181	Get to the point, get to the point!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0182	We're in the middle of it, so you be here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0295par0183	Mr. Proposal, please talk to me about the bill.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0184	Yes, sir. Mr. Prime Minister, we can't say anything to the judge. He says that after a two-and-a-half-point referendum game, but until then, he didn't stop judging. He said to the judges, to the prosecutors, take off your robe, and come out before me. He did things like that to me, so I took off the tie, and I'm here with the compliments of the Reverend Isparta. How did the Prime Minister, who couldn't say anything to the judiciary, send the judges, the prosecutors, to the border? How did Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, who said, "We can't say anything to the judge," send prosecutors to the Internet? We are not sorry, we came under the direction of Ocalan. How did they release those who said, "We are sorry"? How did they get on the buses in their own clothes and go from city to city? How did they get turned around when people's conscience got worse? Mr. Bulent Arinc, emphasised on the court's verdict, is three months over, and imprisonment cannot be turned into an execution. This should be a precedent for other cases, a Deputy Prime Minister who speaks the truth, the facts. If you do not listen to me, listen to him. Those with conscience accept the truth and act accordingly. The evidence wasn't collected, so...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0296par0191	Mr. Proposal... please come to the point, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0192	I'll pick it up right away, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0297par0193	He's got nothing to say.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0194	They call the continuation of the arrest. Is that the principle of democracy and the rule of law? See, history has always shown that states and regimes that extend basic rights and freedoms, that have accountable governments, and that establish the rule of law have always been strengthened. One of the most fundamental and indispensable principles of democracy is undoubtedly the rule of law. However, law is not an instrument of the fight for political superiority. The law must have a quality that puts human life and honor in high esteem. Justice and injustice should not be covered by the law. The law must observe the principle of justice. • Who says so? Mr. President says, from this stand, I remind those who have forgotten. Because we're here to tell the truth and the wrongs and the wrongs. In my literature, there's no ruling party, there's no opposition party, there's a management party, there's an audit party. Not everything the government says is true, and it is not right to oppose everything the government does. We're here to say right and wrong. ▪ Judicial authorities are the last hope for those who feel that they have been wronged. The destruction of the hopes of those who seek asylum in the law also undermines the trust of the government. If there is a widespread belief that the judiciary is not being fair, there will be difficult wounds on the conscience of society, and the sense of trust will be lost. Therefore, the judiciary is expected to pay maximum attention to its functions. Personal feelings and preferences, political and philosophical opinions should not affect judgment and should not lead to unjust consequences. Mr. President Abdullah Gul. The situation that has caused the arrests of the prisoners to turn into actual punishments and delay the execution of justice has marred the action of the judiciary. The rule of law binds the judges, the president, the Prime Minister, the citizens. In that regard, double standard implementation is incompatible with advanced democracy, as it undermines trust in law, justice. Our esteemed lawmakers felt that the Multi-Substantiated Investment Accords were incompatible because the Dair Legislature was a little lacking in detailed work because it may be considered to contain a number of clauses against us, but these defects can be eliminated with serious qualifications. Who are the multilateral contracts made with? With countries we know as friends, neighbors, countries of the United Nations. We said zero problem policy with our neighbors, we turned it into a ball of trouble. We don't know how many friends we have in the countries we know. The Prime Minister was with those who said, "Fuck America!" and then every day, the Prime Minister met with Bush. Bush spoke to Bush, the son of Bush. Now he's met with Obama. Let's put it in Mr. Metiner's statement: Is he receiving a description or giving other instructions?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0298par0199	Is it possible that he didn't meet in international affairs? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0200	There is a project called "BOP"; it's a channel project. I gave him the good news about the election. Whose project is this?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0298par0201	What are we gonna do? We're gonna shut up?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0202	The canal will be 25 meters deep, 150 meters wide. Why? Let the submarines through, sir...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0299par0203	We don't take notice of any power centers.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0204	Don't flatter me...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0299par0205	We only get people's notice.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0300par0206	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0207	...to pass the aircraft carriers.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0300par0208	Mr. Proposal, please talk about the matter.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0209	What about our privileges with Montrö? Who closed the land in that area? The people of the free and independent country can sign their multilateral contracts, and they must be signed without anyone's permission. We've been through a lot lately. Five of our officers have been martyred, 24 of our soldiers' martyrdom has rocked us all. Then, with the Van earthquake, we were overwhelmed by deep suffering all over the country, but our nation wiped out the weakness of government.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0301par0211	We'd like a sentence on the subject.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0212	To the west, to the north, and to the north, and to all our country's distinguished citizens, to the aid of our brothers and sisters of Erjish, and to those who were destroyed in the villages of Ercish. There, too, a failure of management stood out in the early days. It's from me, it's from the mud. It's the result of your mentality. Earthquake taxes aren't spent on earthquakes, they're spent on political investments, they're used for glamorization. If it had been used in the service of those who lost their lives there...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0302par0213	You're the governor of politics.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0214	I've done my job as governor with dignity and dignity. I've made no compromises, no compromises, and today I stand before you with a clear head and a clear head. I didn't bow 90 degrees in front of anyone. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our Prime Minister, he speaks in the squares, he speaks differently on the balcony. Süleymaniye pressed the bus to the mosque's door, then to the victims of Simav's earthquake...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0303par0217	Mr. Öner, please, the election term is closed. Elections have been made, please come to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0218	Sir, Simav visited the earthquake victims in good health.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0304par0219	We're not having an election rally! Get to the point, get to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0220	Now, I'm not going to go ahead with your comments right now for lack of time, but I'm going to go ahead and say it. We've got Sacrifice Day ahead of us. We want to reach this Feast of Sacrifice in peace, as a nation, as an Islamic world. Without anyone else, without turning anyone against each other...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0305par0222	Tell yourself, tell yourself. Tell yourself, not us.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0223	...in the memory of the saints of our martyrs, wishing that our wounded would find a cure. With these feelings, I would like to make sure that this law is carefully imposed on our country, our nation...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0305par0225	What law?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0306par0226	What law?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0288par0227	I wish you all the best, and all the best.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0307par0229	Thank you, Mr. Proposal. Mr. Metiner, I'd like to request...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0308par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0307par0232	Just a second, members of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0308par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0307par0234	Sir...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0308par0235	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0307par0236	Explain what, Mr. Tarhan?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0308par0237	Mr. President, in the reports, yesterday's reports...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0307par0238	Mr. Tarhan, I've read it. Mr. Metiner, there's a request for a settlement. I'm gonna take a break now...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0309par0239	Just a minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0307par0240	It's 20 o'clock. Instead of the demand for a settlement of 00,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0310par0241	Sir, let me tell you something.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0309par0242	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0311par0243	Mr. President, listen, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0312par0244	You can all talk together, it doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0311par0245	I want to talk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0312par0246	This is your group president, we're listening.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0311par0247	Mr. President, please listen. Councilman, listen up. Yesterday's reports include eternal chief, national chief fascism in this country, referred to as past. Look, the only talent we have for this Veteran Assembly is that we owe Mustafa Kemal, the revolutions, the republic and the founding values, and there's a desecration here under the roof of this House...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0313par0249	It's not a zat.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0314par0250	Just a second, Congressman...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0311par0251	...Mustafa Kemal has spoken ill of him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0314par0252	Mr. Tarhan, they answered that speech yesterday.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0311par0253	I demand that this person apologize. He's already a habit of apologizing, so I'd like him to apologize to us.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0315par0255	Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0314par0256	Wait a second... Mr. Metiner, there's already a demand for a settlement. I'll give him my word.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0315par0258	We want an apology, not a tashih.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0316par0259	We demand an apology.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0317par0260	In position, sir, in place...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0315par0261	In position, sir...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0262	One moment, Mr. Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0315par0263	Mr. President, he's insulted his position, so let him answer.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0264	Please, what do you mean... Am I asking you?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0315par0265	Let him answer from his position.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0266	Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0315par0267	You can't...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0268	Here you go, Mr. Metiner. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0319par0270	Be equal...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0320par0271	Mr. President, act equally...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0272	I'm being even. I just...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0321par0273	I need a report on what you're going out for.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0322par0274	Mr. President, what's he going out for?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0275	One moment... I promised, Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0323par0276	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0324par0277	Who the hell is this guy? He's talking to Ataturk. Who is this guy?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0278	Mr. Metiner, just a moment...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0324par0279	Who is this man who defied Ataturk?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0318par0280	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0324par0281	How does he defame Ataturk? He'll apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0325par0282	I salute you all. I was here yesterday...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0326par0284	Just a moment, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0327par0285	Mr. President, on what basis did you promise?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0326par0286	Mr. Vural, there's a request for a settlement on yesterday's speech. He's doing the damage, he's going to fix the speech.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0328par0287	Mr. President, according to the 60th Amendment, have him resupply and apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0329par0288	He's going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0326par0289	I made the statement.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0330par0290	Mr. President, he's insulted, he's supposed to apologize, he's not supposed to.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0331par0291	We will never surrender to your fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0332par0293	You're the Fascist!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0333par0294	You're the Fascist! Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0331par0295	We will never surrender.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0334par0297	Apologize, you're the fascist!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0333par0298	Look in the mirror!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0331par0299	We will not kneel before your will, and we will not surrender to fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0334par0300	You're going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0331par0301	You'll listen!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0335par0302	Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock for the merger. Until... 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00,
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0336par0303	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0331par0304	You'll listen, you'll listen!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit06spe0335par0305	I'm taking a break.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0335par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 40, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0337par0004	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, sir, I just...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0335par0005	Mr. President, one second, I'll start, and then... Please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0337par0006	Mr. President, before we begin the negotiations, there's been some bullying, and we'd like to take a statement.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0335par0007	But you know what I'm gonna do? I don't start negotiations.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0337par0009	Mr. President, we'd like to point the finger at the taunt before you start the negotiations.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0335par0010	No, it's not, ma'am. Mr. President, I'll make a promise to Mr. Metiner to make it right, to meet the demand, then you'll say it again.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0338par0012	Before that, we have something to talk about.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0013	Mr. President, there's teasing, I want word. It's a taunt. Our group's been picked on. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I'd like to make a statement on this matter.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0335par0014	Let him make the tashihi, make the correction, and then I'll promise you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0015	He must have teased the orator who came out to fix it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0335par0016	Come in, Mr. Tarhan, sit down, enter the system, and we'll listen to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0018	This system is not being hacked, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0340par0019	Mr. President, first there's teasing our friend, so let him speak, and then we'll discuss...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0021	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0341par0022	Mr. Tarhan, what did he say? Let's ask you about him first.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0342par0023	What's he going to say? Haven't you heard? Look, Mr. President, to the reports.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0024	Mr. President, look, Mr. Metiner, look at our group on the stand to apologize, look at the transcripts, we will never surrender to your fascism. He has insulted and harassed you. I want a say in this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0341par0025	Here, Mr. Tarhan, I promise you three minutes, but without further ado. Here's to the stand.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0029	Dear MPs, we will never surrender to your Fascism by aiming at our group while we are waiting for the leader here to apologize, who has made it a habit to insult Mustafa Kemal and his comrades at every opportunity to attack the founding values. He should apologize to us for the second time. He's the subject of the ancient mentality that threatens to rid this society of those who are doomed.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0343par0031	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0341par0032	Mr. Tarhan, please! Look, when I promised, I didn't mean for any more bullying. Mr. Tarhan, please!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0033	...he has absolutely no right to teach us a lesson in democracy.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0341par0035	Please, Mr. Tarhan, you're on the stand to respond to bullying.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0036	If you want to learn fascism, you have to look in the mirror.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0344par0038	He's old-fashioned!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0339par0039	In this country, you have to look back on who created the empire of fear. So you have to think twice about bringing the Republican People's Party's name to your mouth, side by side with fascism. I invite you to apologize twice for this insult.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0345par0041	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0346par0042	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0345par0043	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0346par0044	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Group, the statement used by the Vice President is insulting in demanding an apology.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0345par0045	What did he use, Mr. Ünal? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Congressmans, please, I have to ask, it has to be filed.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0346par0048	He used the expression "out of the age" and "out of the age" as well as "out of mind," Mr. President. I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0347par0049	"Outgoing" is a criticism, or it is not an insult. It's already out of date...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0345par0050	Mr. Ünal, please give me two minutes before we have a new pick-me-up. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0348par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we're making a great effort to get the House to work from the day the House opens, but it's still anachronic, archaic debate, and it's still in the past, and it's not the first thing that we've expressed in our conversation the other day, is that it's not right to have this kind of statement brought here against people who consider themselves to be the children of this republic and who are taking this republic into the future today. Look, there's a very clear statement about yesterday's debate. Mr Muharrem Ence says there was a democracy in the world in 1930 and there was no democracy in Turkey? Look, there was Franco in Spain, there was Hitler in Germany, there was Salazar, there was Mussolini. Was there a European Court of Human Rights in the world? Who was Mussolini?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0349par0056	Yes, he clearly said "fascist." Don't flex.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0350par0057	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0348par0058	Look, look, I'm saying something about my band. Who was Mussolini? Who was Hitler? Who was Salazar? Ataturk, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's will for democracy is very clear.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0350par0059	Tell that to Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0348par0060	It is clear that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was fighting for the transition to multi-party life in 1924, in 1929, but in 1935 he brought 27 pages of reports and in 1936...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0350par0061	All right, tell Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0351par0062	Inform your friend, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0348par0063	Look, if you read a little history of democracy, if you read a little history of politics, we're here against the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0350par0064	Tell Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0348par0065	I got my word on that. What the AK PARTY did... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No one can argue that the AKP PARTY will own the republic, that the AK PARTY will own the achievements of Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0352par0069	Say it, say it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0348par0070	Our congressman will take his word for it and make a concession. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0353par0072	Mr. Ünal, thank you very much. [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Congressmans, please sit down. Mr. Metiner, it's under Article 58 of the Civil Code to assess your speech yesterday. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0354par0079	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just been moved to the bench of the Assembly, which they described as our fellow MP from the CHP Group, while I'm trying to make my point. They insulted me, called me the enemy, called me the traitor. That's what fascism is, I'm talking about this fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0081	You're the Fascist!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0356par0082	You're going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0354par0083	You're going to talk about thought, freedom of speech, and you're going to talk about a congressman's...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0084	What do you know about freedom of speech?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0357par0085	Mr. Metiner, please confirm your speech yesterday.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0086	You're going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0358par0087	I'm not on the stand to apologize, I'm on the stand to make my promise clear, and if you wait, you'll listen.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0088	Mr. President, let him apologize, the reports are there!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0358par0089	What I mean here, Mr. Group, is that as our Deputy President, your Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0090	Let go of my brother, Deputy Director of the Group, apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0359par0091	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0360par0092	Leave it alone!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0093	You insulted us here! Disrespectful man!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0359par0094	Excuse me, gentlemen!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0361par0095	Now, what I'm talking about is the National Chief era, the only party period, and this is fascism...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0096	You know Fascism!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0361par0097	...a lot of political scientists with social democrat scientists in them. Mr. Group Vice President has already announced, Muharrem İnce Bey said that there is only one party period in Turkey, in accordance with the course of the world.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0355par0098	Apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0361par0099	I meant the National Chief instead of the Eternal Chief, I have no problem with Ataturk...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0362par0100	You're going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0363par0101	You promised him an apology, Mr. President! Say he's sorry! (x) The statement on this statement was found on page 369, published on page 1/11/2011, and is found on page 369.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0364par0103	I don't have a problem with the Republic, I'm in favor of a democratic republic with free and equal citizens, and I'm against all kinds of fascism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0365par0104	Get out of here!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0366par0105	He can't leave without apologizing!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0367par0106	He's going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0368par0107	I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0109	Congressmans, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0370par0110	Mr. President, he's going to apologize!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0111	He's done his painting, what else is he going to do? Yesterday's speech...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0370par0112	Tell him to apologize, Mr. President!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0113	Nureddin Nebati, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement on behalf of the AK PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Nebati. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Please sit down, Congressmans...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0371par0117	Mr. President, the speaker himself refers to the period in which he refers to Ismet Inönul. That's not over yet. I mean, I don't mean Ataturk, I mean Ismet Inönul. We can't accept this! We can't accept this!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0118	Congressman, I promised Mr. Metiner. I promised him yesterday's speech, his speech on Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0372par0119	Shame on you! Shame on you! As LEVENT YAK (Ankara) was painting, I didn't mean the chief of eternity, I meant the chief of the nation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0121	He's being critical, he's not... Please, have a seat.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0373par0123	He's not criticizing, Mr. President, he's insulting.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0124	He's expressing his personal views.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0374par0125	President, then we'll tell him.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0126	If there's an insult, there's also a lawsuit, so it's a matter of compensation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0374par0127	Let's do it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0375par0128	Mr. President, we insult you all the time. Get him out, apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0129	Please sit down, Congressmans. You've got group presidents. There's nothing wrong with walking to this bench.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0376par0130	Mr. President, the entire House must respond to this insult against Ismet Inönul.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0131	Okay, you can sue.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0376par0133	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit07spe0369par0134	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0369par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 40, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I will now promise Mr. Metiner to his place of residence in his speech yesterday, without making any promises on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0377par0008	You can't seem to express yourself when you're short-spoken. If I've had more than my intentions, I've taken the stand to assess it. None of us should have the right to insult or accuse each other of fascistism under the roof of this House, but under the roof of this House, all ideas need to be spoken freely, to be debated. We need to be civil about this. If I've disturbed the CHP group, I've asked for a promise to make this clear. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0369par0011	Thank you, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0378par0012	From the Innu, from the Innu...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0379par0013	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0369par0014	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0378par0015	Apologise to Inönun.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0369par0016	Congressmans, please, the matter is understood.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0380par0017	The speaker says I stand by his words.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0378par0019	Apologise to Inönun.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0369par0020	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... Yes, Mr. Metiner...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0381par0022	Yes, the word "fascism" is obviously too much. I take it back, but instead of returning all the insults I've been given, please, I'm looking for an apology. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0369par0025	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0382par0026	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0383par0027	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0384par0028	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0385par0029	No, you have members of the group presidents, please. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0384par0032	Mr. President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a veteran assembly. It's a council that founded this republic, this state. On 1 November 1922, it was the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that lifted the reign and gave the sovereignty to the nation. Hence, it is essential to be a citizen rather than a servant. However, while Mr. Metiner was having this conversation, the act was lifted, but the period after that was carried out. As he said, there are other words besides that that you should take back, and he says today: there is not a single man's rule with my understanding of today. We have executives who have run for office and run for office, but there's only one man's administration in their past, he says. Mr. President, neither the late Menderes nor Süleyman Demirel nor Ecevit nor Turgut Ozal have ruled here as one man. It is not the duty of the MP to insult the history of this nation. So, we're taking your period and coming with the democrat. And by that, I invite you to apologize for accusing your predecessors of being one man, to apologize to the late Adnan Menderes, to Turgut Özal, to all of them.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0385par0034	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0384par0035	First, you will apologize to Ataturk. Mr. President, the issue of fascism is a party matter. But it was an accusation of understanding for the will to establish the sovereignty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that founded this republic on this issue. The main thing is to apologize to the moral character of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that's the main thing, so I think that's the right thing to do. You may take back what you said about the parties, but that is how you accuse all of the period after the reign was destroyed, and you must apologize to this nation and to the lawmakers.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0385par0037	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Metiner, is that what you meant about Mr. Vural's speech? In a sentence, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0386par0039	Mr. Metiner, you've been rude, you've been rude, come out and apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0387par0040	Anyone who knows me doesn't mean Zinhar. I've never said anything about Ataturk, or anyone who's read what I've written in the past.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0388par0041	It's about the innu...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0387par0042	I can also criticize the Inönu. It's not a problem, it's not a scientific place, it's a political place.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0388par0043	You can't say "fascist" but you can't say "fascist."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0387par0044	I got Fascism back. There's no need to provoke. There's no need for another party to follow the politics of provocation again.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0389par0046	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. İstanbul MP Nurettin Nebati is now calling on behalf of the AK PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Nebati.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0390par0050	Dear Metiner, let me teach you a lesson in humanity. I'm sorry!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0389par0052	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0390par0053	I apologize to you! [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] There's a flaw in your humanity, you've locked 550 men. You apologize to your Prime Minister. You dirty bastard!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0391par0057	You're naughty!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0392par0059	Congressmans, please... Mr. Gardendoor... [[Continue]] Mr. Nebati, if you please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0393par0067	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the grounds that the amendments made in Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation shall be approved. I'd like to report our views. I want to thank Mehmet Shandır Bey, who gave his speech today. That was a really nice sentence. The speakers walk around with things that don't fill a figshell where they're going to talk about things, and they go around and finish their words.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0394par0069	It's the fig core. We know what we're talking about.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0395par0071	Mr. President, we have business here... do we have to open an educational institution here?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0396par0072	Mr. Nebati, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0397par0073	Now, therefore, the talks to be made under this sacred roof at the Assembly platform, particularly on the subject, will have far more important contributions both to meeting the needs of this great nation that constitutes Turkey and to carrying out the work that we are going to do. And if we weren't going to fill the fig shell or talk about the bill, for example, it would be natural for anyone to get up and sell a $200 million company ten years ago for $200 million and then say, "Well, if a country is developing, if the economy is strong, if it's worth $200 million, it's going to be sold at a cath value of something that was sold ten years ago.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0398par0074	Why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0397par0075	Each business produces something called "capital value," and that is one of the requirements of the economy. In the same logic, something you sold to our fathers ten years ago is now worth $200,000, and if we don't say it, you've spent 200 grand chasing after my elders' home. It was necessary to express that such talks were not worth filling a fig core. Or again, beyond Mr. Shandir, when he made promises not to fill the figshell...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0399par0077	The fig core...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0397par0078	I would also have talked about the fact that the staff in the business areas that were privatized to talk about MIA is not actually unemployed, that when a company is sold, whether it's a private company or a public company, maybe the people who work there will change their names, but the number of staff will not change, and will add value to this country. Or here, under the guise of teaching, the workers can't sacrifice in this country. We used to say to the person who brought up the word, "It's not a ritual that's already been sanctioned to sacrifice workers. There's something called "Nisap" and we used to teach these classes to talk to them instead of MIGA. So I...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0400par0081	Master Hodja, can you also describe the holiday prayer?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0397par0082	So let me speak to Mr. Mehmet Shandır Bey about MIA, in order to contribute to the words of the gentleman, whom I consider to be my elder.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0400par0083	Teacher, can you also describe the holiday prayer?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0401par0084	What do you think of the officers?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0402par0085	Congressmans, please allow the Minister to speak.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0086	Now, there are five groups in the world group, and one of them is the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation, the MIGA, the Multilateral Investment Agency, 12 April 1998...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0404par0087	Teacher, can glass men sacrifice, beavers?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0088	...to help the developing country's economies attract private investments and to increase direct foreign investments in these countries, as it is established in history and ensures guarantees against the political risks of investors. On May 27, 1988, our country became a member of MIA. Our total capital share in MIA is 8.8 million US dollars, and our total share is 814, and our voting power is 0.48 percent, and we have to give you this: In 1988, a country that did not sign under Turkey with the world's 16th-largest economy is a country that is developing and needs 50 cents. It is not a signature from a country that has become the world's 16th largest economy, and when we look at this day, it guarantees foreign capital investments in our country since 1991. As of November 30, 2010, the total amount of guarantees for foreign capital investments in our country were 1.2 billion dollars, and when you entered the MIA website, the total amount of investments guaranteed from 1988 to 2010 were $2.2 billion, which amounted to 5 per cent of them, was provided and carried out in Turkey. A $177.5m U.S. from Turkey has guaranteed the same. The change of the contract of the MIGA (MIA) was introduced in 2009 on the grounds that it was an obstacle to achieving the goal of development. The aim is to expand the scope of the guarantees offered by the MiGA (MIGA), increase guaranteeable projects in developing countries, make them fit for market implementation in the field of political risk guarantees, and increase the capacity to carry out the mission of the MIGA (MIA). The ballot for voting on changes proposed by member states in this scope was passed to members of the country's commanders, which was approved by our country on July 14, 2010, until July 30, 2010, when the total number of member states in MIA is 150. These 150 countries come from Europe to Africa, from the Middle East to the United States from various parts of the world. With the changes that have been made, the possibility of attracting foreign direct investments is expected to increase as a result of the expansion and exchange of guarantees by the MiGA to guarantee investments for Turkish investors in other countries, as well as guarantees for our country. By 2002, Turkey received $3.7 billion direct investments, from 2002 to today, and from 2010 to the end, I want to say that the amount of direct investment is $20 billion. The contract of the company of the World Bank group would be suitable for boosting projects that could be guaranteed in developing countries, harmonising guarantees in line with market implementation in the field of political risk guarantees, strengthening the capacity of MIA to carry out its mission in general, direct application of investors in terms of guarantees, reducing bureaucratic barriers, and allowing international investors to benefit from corporate guarantees in a country, such as growth and modernisation. Precious lawmakers, in Article 11 (b) joke, it is described as the same thing as the risks being met: (In addition to this, the Council did not have such a clause about the value of any amount of money in any case, in which there was no risk of losing value, in addition to some of the external trade risks, in particular, in the upper part (a). This is the speaker on behalf of the CHP Group. Indeed, it is very clear that without taking the risk of losing the value of the money, it can confirm the expansion of the scope of the substance. In this type of investments will include capital investment and direct investments by the Council, including mid or long-term loans opened or guaranteed by investors in this kind of investment. Politically speaking, the MIGA guaranteed earlier transfer restrictions, publicisation, violations of contracts, war, domestic disturbances against risks defined in Article 11. In addition, if there is any other political risk, the MIGA could guarantee it as part of the application process with the member state. The amendment removes the requirement for application with the member state, so the investor can benefit from this guarantee directly by applying for it himself. It was already a non-functional substance -- the application clause with the country. Another change: there was a bureaucratic process related to the application period. In the process, the project had to be applied from the beginning of its date. This condition has been eliminated because it requires a long bureaucratic process, and this has been softened. Another change: As it turns out, they've all been made clear, not in secret, or just in the direction of bureaucrats, but also in the commissions. In this context, only the first investment was guaranteed before. With this change, an international investor could guarantee a foreign company, a revision, expansion, modernisation investments by the MiGA. These changes are particularly important to attract foreign capital like us. In addition, our investors will also provide considerable opportunities, especially in Turkish republics and North African republics. In 2011, major Turkish investors applied here, but it's still not enough. It is also considered useful to be introduced. We are ranked 14th among the loans provided to our country in a hundred and seventy-five countries. So even though there is an 8.8 million-dollar capital and a 0.48 per cent share in the MIGA organization, we are 14 percent in the line of credits that are being used, and its contributions to the country are significantly self-inflicted. Dear lawmakers, of course, making such changes does not mean that only the laws will be ratified. The world and Turkey are changing very quickly. Therefore, it is necessary to update such changes and make them suitable for the conjunctural. Of course, what we lawmakers are supposed to do here is not just pick up the hand about the bill, download it. It is an important issue to discuss all issues that will be discussed on condition that we stick to the topic. Now, of course, I don't think it would make any sense to talk about MIA here for a very long time, because I'd like to get the opinion of how important or insignificant the MIGA (MIGA) contribution of the $1.2 billion is in their talks on behalf of the group, regardless of what the opening of MIA (MIGA) is, and just to fill the time. In this business...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0405par0101	You tell me.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0102	I told you, you're not listening.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0406par0103	You can't even read 48 percent! You say 48 per thousand, 48 per cent.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0104	Anyway, everyone's a reader, so you look at things now, and you look at them from there.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0407par0105	Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0408par0106	Well, can a tradesman cut it, Hajji?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0107	Of course, it's all about technical rhetoric and understanding of technique, and most importantly, the bill of law.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0409par0108	Teacher, get to that victim thing, victim.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0109	...can be carried out by doing some work on it. Of course, what's important here is that we lawmakers and this country's security, especially the safety of lives and property, are also necessary before freedoms are lost. It is a great joy not to talk about people being lambs, but to talk about rights and law to everyone and to a parliament aimed at a country owned as a first-class citizen. The important thing is, this bill here is not a bond contract -- it's not an agreement that is not well read -- it's not bail, it's a bail from MIA. I'd like to say a few words of what's being said here. Especially...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0410par0113	Can you fix it, TIGA or MIGA?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0114	MIGA, MIGA. Either we do so much that there are so many things going on that there are so many organizations that we, lawmakers, even lawmakers, have a hard time following the work our government does.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0411par0117	There's no more oil, I swear. Come on, there's no more oil!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0118	The value of reading like you, not following the writing, or what this government has added to this country over the past nine years...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0412par0119	You guys are so confused.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0120	...in this country's world in question...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0413par0121	Teacher, tell us about this victim, the victim!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0122	And if you can't see where he came from in his own inn, then what am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0413par0123	Teacher, tell me about the holiday prayer before you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0124	You'll follow well, read it tomorrow, and you'll see the guests in a few minutes. ▪ It's called a tradesman with no money. People don't have money in their pockets. It's called. I'll tell you, I've come from the new Şırnak. I've come from Mardin. The price of a thousand square metres of land in Mardin is 1.5 million liras. At Midyat, a thousand square metres of land costs $2 million. There's a five-star hotel in Şırnak built in those magnificent mountains...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0414par0126	You say sad things, why are you smiling? Don't smile!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0127	...and these studies, the growth of this country, the enrichment of this country, and the closure of the difference between the following groups and the top groups, and yes, I am very proud to be a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. These prices are coming because they are members of a country they call Turkey. It will also be difficult for people who do not understand the value of addition, who do not understand the growth of the economy, who do not see the development in this country to understand and perceive the difference in Turkey. September 12th... September 12th reflects two things in this country. There's a September 12th, the 12th of September of...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0414par0129	Why didn't you?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0415par0130	What did you do, what?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0131	...but there is a September 12th, 2010, when this country ate a beautiful beauty.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0414par0132	Why didn't you judge the 12th of September?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0416par0133	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0134	What has been done... citizens of this country, the Parliament of this country is making a beautiful constitutional amendment. With a partial amendment referendum on September 12, 2010, this country was practically freed from a custody mortgage and guaranteed the future of the country, and on June 11, 2011, 50 percent of the message showed how it was made and how its contents were eaten. But if you don't know how it is, how it's eaten, I'll tell you, there are three basic ingredients to the cupcake...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0417par0135	What a bitch! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0136	Yogurt is cucumbers, mints.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0418par0137	Get to the point, drop the pussy!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0138	And he's got a garnish. These folks are so comfortable with their threesomes...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0419par0139	You're matching the Constitutional Amendment to the pussy?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0418par0140	Is this the kitchen? Are you the chef?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0141	... ate with 42 bowls, and then ingested a 50 percent cake.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0420par0143	Eat up, eat up!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0144	In September 2010, when it's called the Republic, it's me. Whatever I think, this society will think as I do, live as I do, and all identity will be melted under a hoop.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0421par0145	It's a shame!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0146	... andtherewasatime when that mentality was thrown into history's past. There has been a vote linking the Republic to the Republic. The outcome of this vote, hopefully, has opened the front door to a constitution that will be carried out by the fall of 2012 and will be carried out by civil society.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0422par0147	What civil society? You created an empire of fear. What civil society?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0148	They will also learn about a country in the darkness of the 20th century, where people who don't know what date they are in, who still travel through the darkness of the 20th century, who can understand, perceive, and live with that change, who can internalise and internalize that change, not by a democratic republic, but by a democratic republic, where the will of the people is established.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0423par0149	Think about how this country was built.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0150	If they can't find out, they'll wait, and hopefully a new crate in the 2014 election will show these kind of studies.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0424par0151	Is this about MIA? Is this MIGA or MIGA?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0403par0152	I hope this bill, which was made on this occasion about MIA, will contribute very important to Turkey in the coming period, even though it is small... $1.2 billion is a small number, $20 billion is the number used all over the world. I also want to say how small $20 billion is worldwide, compared to the 50 billion that went after banks before 2002, and that $1.2 billion is now a very simple, small number in Turkey, which has a budget of $1.5m in Turkey in 2011. My respects to the Honorable Council. Good evening.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0425par0155	You've got ignorance running through you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0426par0156	Thank you, Mr. Nebati.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0427par0157	Mr. President, would you excuse me? Mr. Hodja, they've been very well informed of who the victim is, God bless you. There's two times a year of prayer, the holiday prayer.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0426par0159	We don't have that kind of procedure, Congressman. What are you going to ask? Please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0427par0160	We'll ask for his recipe if it has anything to do with MIA.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0426par0161	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0427par0162	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0426par0163	Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar, asked for a personal word on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0166	Mr. President, before we salute the Grand Assembly, I would like to bow before our heroes, who have given the sovereignty to the people, who have established the republic, who are the President of the Republican People's Party, the Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and the second President of Turkey, Ismet Inönul, who founded the republic (Applause from the ranks of the CHP) and the Grand Assembly. However, I urge the three opposition parties in the Grand Assembly, who spoke just before me, to describe the AKP as a cake and describe it as a cake, while I am not able to reconcile it with the seriousness of the Assembly, with the seriousness of the republic, with the public being aware that this is the Turkish Grand National Assembly as we speak.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0429par0168	Yeah, but they already talked about the pussy. She told me about the cat, so I described it, so what did I do?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0169	Congressmans, we've heard a confession in the High Council, and we've learned who can sacrifice. Workers can't sacrifice, workers can't.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0429par0170	He said it wrong, and I did it right, and I tried to tell him the truth.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0171	My friends talked to me about our contract. We are the world's 16th largest economy, Mr. Prime Minister and AKP. In the 16th largest economy of the world, workers will no longer be able to sacrifice, nor will economic conditions be available to them. The villagers, as it turns out, will not be able to cut, nor will the tradesmen, nor will the officers, and we have seen that there is no one left to sacrifice in this country, except for those who ate the cake. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in the 24th-century Assembly, which took place after the June 12th elections, we discussed a single rule of law when we looked at it. On the day of the closing of the Assembly, he was rushed from the Council of Counsellors, and passed a law and a law of one substance. Other than that, no bill has been passed in front of the High Assembly, but there have been decrees on the laws that have changed hundreds of laws. The House has now been shut down by the government. I'd like to get your attention. Legislative decrees are issued for emergencies and for times when the House does not meet. Perhaps not even the ministers of this matter know of the laws imposed on these laws based on decrees. Dear friends, the House is open, we continue our negotiations. Within two days, new laws have been passed in accordance with the law that carries dozens of articles again. I believe that only one of you is aware of any changes.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0430par0177	We know.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0178	The House has been shut down. In parliament, the control lines are blocked. With the motion we've adopted today, if this becomes a habit, our control authority is now being taken from us. Dear lawmakers, what did we do after we issued one law clause in the House? Yes, we discussed the most important problem of Turkey's terrorism. We've just discussed the terror we've given 24 martyrs a day. While Turkey's most painful, most serious problem was being discussed, Mr. Prime Minister was on a visit to pay his respects, and the Interior Minister was absent. When the opposition began to ask, "Where is the Minister of Interior?," they informed the Home Secretary, found him, and sat him down. Turkey's most crucial problem was that there was no Prime Minister, the Interior Minister was found, and there were five ministers involved in this parliament, where Turkey's most crucial problem was discussed. It seems the AKP Power doesn't need Parliament. The AKP Group apparently doesn't need parliament because it tolerates it. Dear friends, what does the AKP want to do? He's shut down the coven, and he's taken care of the trial. Do you know how he handled the verdict? You know what supports the referendum is given by the judges of the Democratic Judiciary Society who did everything they could to get the referendum accepted. With his support, he passed the trial, the referendum. But do you know what the Co-Chair of the Democratic Judiciary Association, who supported them in the referendum, said after seeing your applications? He wrote a book entitled "The Judgement Hallolund" and "The Invention of the Judges with the Donkey Democracy." Unfortunately, the judgment has been dealt with with by the donkey democracy. The trial's been taken care of.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0431par0181	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0182	You know what they did right after that? They even changed officers in the Supreme Court, at the Supreme Court, at the Supreme Court. Officers who've had experience there for twenty-five years have all been shut down. They couldn't even tolerate officers in the Supreme Court in the Supreme Court, in the Supreme Court, just as they were on the staff of officers in parliament. So the trial's been taken care of. What did they do?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0431par0183	Change that word. What the hell is that?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0184	Dear friends, we're seeing what's going on in the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0432par0185	What's this about? Mr. President, what was this about?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0186	That's the point. It's about taking care of Turkey. We see the election in the Supreme Court. Do you know that there are 130 judges in the Supreme Court who have left their post since New Year's, who have given up their duties because they've been under heavy pressure? Turkey's...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0433par0188	He left because he didn't want to work.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0189	Yeah, you didn't put the working conditions on the judges. The non-profit judge had to resign.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0434par0191	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0192	Dear friends, let me come to international contracts. There's so much to say... Yes, when Libya received the Human Rights Prize from his brother Gaddafi, what happened three months later when he was posing in a tent, and he allowed Gaddafi to surrender?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0435par0194	What's MIGA?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0195	What was promised? What was promised? Here's the Sharia in Libya. Was Sharia promised? He gave up the brotherhood for Sharia?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0435par0196	One minute left.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0197	What was MIGA?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0198	I'm telling you about international agreements. Bring them to me, not MIA.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0199	What were we talking about?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0200	Bring forth the deals which you have made with Assad, and which you have made with whom you have dealt, and which you have cut off Assad.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0201	Can you tell me the name of the matter we discussed?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0202	Four months ago, Assad was your brother...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0203	Tell me the name of the matter we discussed!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0204	If they have a Schengen, we have a Shamgen. You said, "What happened?" What promises have you made, and now you have given up your brotherhood, and you are plotting to attack Syria, and you are massing troops on the Syrian border?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0205	What's his name?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0206	Bring whatever agreement you signed with Syria that day as an international agreement!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0207	What's the name of the bill? Tell me the name of the bill!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0208	Whatever project you left Syria for, bring the agreement you made with America, and we'll discuss it here. Dear friends...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0210	Tell me the name of the bill!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0211	You know the victim's name, I know the name of the bill, you go on with your victim!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0212	Come on, name the bill, put it on the record!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0213	Dear friends...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0214	Let's go!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0215	Dear friends...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0436par0216	Tell me the name of the bill, and I'll applaud standing up!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0217	Dear friends, those who delivered Gaddafi his brother yesterday will deliver his brother Assad Tomorrow, and then...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0219	Mr. Topstone, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0220	...they will surrender to the policies of America. Turkey is great! Turkey is great!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0221	Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0222	Turkey is great!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0223	Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0224	The Turkish nation is great! No one has the right to raise Turkish people...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0225	Dear Topstone, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0226	...Turkish man is already big!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0227	Mr. Topstone, please, but...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0228	If the Prime Minister wants the people of this country to grow up in Turkey, let him look back on history!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0229	Mr. Topstone, please leave the bench.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0230	Let him look back on history!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0231	Please, Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0232	The Turkish nation is already large, it doesn't need America.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0233	Mr. Topstone, please leave the bench.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0428par0234	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0438par0236	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0237	Just a moment, Mr. Vural. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0438par0239	Sir, of course, we've just had some discussions, but it's not right to bring our historical figures, the leader of our National Liberation War, the founder of the state of the Republic of Turkey, here as the leader of a party, to the thing of today's debates. He is the leader of the Salvation War for all of us. So I'd like to say that I don't think it's right to make a statement just that way by taking political disputes to those days. Today, I think that explanation is true in this regard.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0241	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0242	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0243	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0244	The previous speaker said that in 2002, banks were attracting around 50 billion dollars in a row. I'm a congressman at the time, and I'm also a partner in the government of my party. There's a misinformation here, there's teasing. To enlighten and inform correctly, please, I want your word.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0245	Your words have been filed, Mr. Longitude.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0247	Nothing's passed. What's the matter?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0248	No, dear.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0249	Nothing has passed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0250	He's being critical. It's not all about teasing.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0251	There's no such thing. Everyone has to stick to their word. There's no such thing. There's no $50 billion like that. I'll inform the House.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0252	Mr. Tallirmak, the speaker, the speaker, said the word, and you said it was wrong, so that went into the transcripts.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0253	Is that a thing? Well, let's all say what you think here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0255	Of course I do. We don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0256	I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0257	No, I can't promise because it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0258	What kind of procedure is that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0259	I can't, Mr. Tallie. I'm saying I can't, because every group of lawmakers comes out of every group, they criticize the opposition parties or parties. This criticised an application in the past.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0260	He's lying, he's not criticizing the party. It's not a party.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0261	Okay, he's on the record, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0440par0262	You give your word when the Prime Minister is spoken of.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0263	He's not criticizing my party, he's lying. He's not criticizing the party.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0264	Okay, he's on the record, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0265	It's not party criticism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0441par0266	Now, if you don't talk about what's going on and what's going on here, I'm giving it back to you. I'll tell you, those banks that were set up have traces of your past.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0267	Please, Mr. Longneck, sit down, I...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0268	Mr. President, we're going down in history here...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0269	What else is there to say after all this talk, Mr. Tallie? He's on the books.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0270	You can't handle something like this. It's a shame. A congressman is lying.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0271	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Roger that, sir. Please, have a seat.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0272	Do you understand that?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0273	No, it's been made clear, it's already been filed. Please, Mr. Tallie...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0274	This doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0275	It doesn't suit you to talk like that.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0276	But it doesn't suit you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0277	Please, Mr. Longhorn, sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0278	There are false documents, false statements, a government accused.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0279	I'm following the Civil Code here, Mr. Longitude. I'll take your word for it. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0439par0280	You can return it. You can return whatever you want. You always have a right to him.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0281	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0442par0282	Mr. President, we're having a very serious meeting with the speakers on a very important bill. After our friend speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group's statement about the MIGA, I invite you to take this seriously.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0283	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0442par0284	I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of the Government to enlighten us on the MlGA issue. We'd appreciate it if the Minister would enlighten us, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0286	Congressman, we don't have that kind of procedure. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0443par0288	Mr. President, party presidents address the issues of party groups. But we're looking, the congressman's friends are talking as they please. I'd like to invite the members of the group.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0437par0289	Abdullah Çişkan, Kırşehir MP who asked for a personal word on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Hard-working.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0444par0292	We'd like to hear from the Minister, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0445par0293	Will you decide, Elitaş, who will speak?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0446par0294	You're the manager!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0445par0295	What's that got to do with anything? I'm also a congressman. So what's the deal with being head of management? Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0446par0296	There's a group of vice presidents!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0447par0297	Mr. Elitaş, Mr. Longwalk, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0448par0298	He's a congressman!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0447par0299	Here you go, Mr. Hard-working.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0449par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0450par0301	There's a Deputy Director of the Group there.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0451par0302	I'm a congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0450par0303	There's a Deputy Director of the Group there.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0451par0304	The members of the group have their duties. I have a responsibility as a congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0452par0305	We're not subjects, we're MPs. Look, separate the subjects from the congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0453par0306	Mr. Longhorn, please sit down! Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0454par0308	$24 billion of $27 billion has returned from privatisations.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0455par0309	It's not 50, it's wrong. I agree with you, it wasn't 50, it was 70 billion dollars.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0453par0310	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0456par0311	Shame! Let's respect the bench.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0453par0312	Mr. Hard-working, please continue, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0457par0313	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge to you on behalf of my own behalf regarding the Constitution of the Multilateral Investment Guarantees Act, where the amendments to Articles are in order. I salute your high council. Congressmans, of course, the bill we're talking about here is the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation, short for MIGA. Our esteemed opposition MPs have come up here... Unfortunately, when I see this form of opposition, I feel sorry for myself.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0458par0315	Let's do it your way!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0459par0316	Why don't you tell us and we'll do it our way?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0460par0317	Aren't you sorry for what Metiner said?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0461par0318	A new Parliament has been formed here, our new friends, our lawmakers have been elected. I'm sure they're certainly experiencing the same surprise, disappointment, and sadness as I was four years ago. When I was elected to this Parliament, I was one of the youngest MPs, and we have friends who are now 27 years old, and our female deputies have joined us. The debates here, the styles here, the levels here, indeed, I believe are disturbing at least 90 percent of our Parliament.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0462par0319	You're right, quality's down, you're right, you're right!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0461par0320	This Parliament is a parliament capable of representing 95% of Turkey, and our people are expecting a lot from us as they choose us. They expect you to bring this country into the top ten economies, the top ten countries in the world, but what are we discussing here? I really feel sorry for our opposition parties when I see them. I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0463par0321	Feel sorry for yourself, for yourself!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0461par0322	Here, an international contract...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0464par0323	Do you feel sorry for the flower?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0465par0324	Do you feel sorry for the flower, too? Tell him who's a twat, give him an answer!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0466par0325	Feel sorry for yourself!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0326	We've been discussing an international contract, and we've been talking about it for hours, and we still haven't approved one bill.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0466par0327	You're cursing people's history! And here he is...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0328	I personally don't want to be nervous when I go home, when I leave this House and go home, and I don't want to be stressed.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0468par0329	Don't be, brother, don't be!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0330	When I confronted my children, my sons, I signed three, four -- whatever -- in the name of this country today. I want to say yes, but we still have ten international contracts on our agenda -- if I don't know what's wrong -- and there are hundreds of international contracts on the back, and we still haven't passed one here. What are we discussing? Are we discussing the bill? No.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0469par0331	You said, "Speak up." Elitaş just said: "We extend it so that you can speak." You say, "Don't speak."
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0332	Our deputies have left, and I've listened carefully... and I expect my opposition to force us to do so. How do you force it? Study hard. Read this bill.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0470par0334	Is there a cacic in the bill?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0335	Read what's changed, what's come, and come here.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0470par0336	Tell me if there's anything in the bill.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0471par0337	Could it be a bill that doesn't come to the commissions?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0338	Come here, say: "O government, you have signed this bill, and there is a mistake in this clause, and there is a mistake in our country, and there is such a mistake in it. Make us, force power, but what are the speakers doing here?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0472par0339	Take the bill to a commission, not to us.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0340	They start blaming us for not knowing the name of the bill, for not mentioning it in any way, or for speaking of it in a manner of speaking, and giving it to us afterwards, or that's what you said, that's what I said. I'm uncomfortable with it. I'm not comfortable discussing the past.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0473par0341	Who brought up this argument?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0474par0342	Tell the group vice presidents.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0343	Let's learn from the past. Yesterday the late Alparslan Türkesh was discussed, today the deceased Inönu was debated, our Great Leader Ataturk is being discussed. These are not issues to discuss.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0475par0344	Who brought up this argument, my beautiful brother?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0345	These individuals have taken their place in history, and we respect them all. We don't want any discussion. Let's learn from the past.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0476par0346	He's right.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0347	Ataturk is nobody's monopoly. We have all grown up in the love and respect of Ataturk, and he is our great Leader. (CHEERING) You don't have a monopoly, you don't have a monopoly, you don't have a monopoly. We're not getting anywhere by discussing the past. Come, the new assembly has been established in this Parliament, and may the best of us all -- how do we get Turkey into the top ten countries, how do we build our own car, our own tank, our own plane, our own helicopter, our own space satellite, let's discuss this. The past is past, let's discuss the future. Please, we are a new Parliament, all of our opposition representatives, all of you, our respect, our love, come, let the future of this country be discussed in this Parliament. What do we say? The public has a low reputation, the lawmakers have no reputation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0477par0349	It doesn't bother you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0350	Here, indeed, if the people who chose us see the MPs here seriously discussing the issues of this country, the reputation of this Parliament will grow in that respect. But unfortunately, while I was sitting here among my friends, I overheard, unfortunately, they're experiencing the same disappointment that I felt four years ago. We need to make something here. We all have values, we all have saints, we all have loved, we all have counted. There's nothing we can come up with by attacking them, saying things badly, offending each other.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0478par0352	Do those words apply to the AKP? Look over there.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0353	So, valuable opposition parties, we expect technical opposition, we expect strong opposition, we expect you to study.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0479par0354	Look at you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0355	Talking to the bleachers, the bleachers, our people, although we're not on the air right now, they don't see us. But since there's no broadcast, I'm just being a little bit more intimate.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0479par0356	First he insults you, then he talks to the opposition!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0357	We really need to build this country's future together by making this decision within ourselves.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0479par0358	If you're so ashamed, quit and leave!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0359	Our nation is waiting for the Constitution, and we need to unify this Constitution. Society expects us, our young people, our women, all our people, to do something for this country.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0480par0360	Speak of MIA, of MIA!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0361	They don't want us arguing. Do any of your constituents call you and argue over it, fight, get into each other? No, they don't want that from any of us.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0481par0362	Don't lie. He says so too.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0363	They want us to build something and take Turkey's future to a much better place.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0482par0364	That's what Mehmet Metiner told the voters, so he came!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0365	Let's discuss this. Push us at this point, study hard.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0483par0366	Work hard, work hard!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0367	Read well the law proposals that come here, read them well and force us to do so. Maybe it's not the right thing to say in the name of power, but I mean it from the bottom of my heart. Leave it like this...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0484par0368	Tell me about the power in your heart!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0483par0369	Look at you!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0370	Let's not discuss things that won't fill the figshell, as my Regent just said.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0483par0372	The fig core is your speech!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0373	Unfortunately, I'm sad, so I feel sorry for the time we've been here, the lights that light up here, I feel sorry for these working staff. This law has already been passed on November 14, 2010, and has arrived in our Parliament. There are hundreds of international laws, and we haven't even passed a bill here. I'm gonna go home from here. What am I gonna tell my kids?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0485par0374	Tell your children the decrees under the law.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0375	What did you do in Parliament today? We discussed it, we discussed it. Did you make any progress? We couldn't do anything, we argued. For God's sake, put your hands on your conscience, blaming each other, offending each other, and there's nowhere we're going to end up with each other. This country is all of us in the same ship, hand in hand, constructive opposition, technical opposition, and hopefully, together, we'll get this country into the top ten countries in which we all live.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0486par0377	You are destructive power, we are constructive opposition.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0378	That's what you want, and that's what we want. We want to take advantage of you, of your ideas, of your projects, if you're constructive and technical opposition to power in that sense.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0487par0379	Deputy, why don't you tell the government not to issue the decrees under the law?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0380	We've been talking about terrorism for the past few days.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0487par0381	Why are there six decrees in the law?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0382	We've been talking about terror for hours, and there's nothing concrete that comes out of it, believe me.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0488par0383	Why aren't you interfering, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0489par0384	Do you have the right, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0385	Come talk to your concrete projects, and we'll stop saying slogans. With concrete projects, power, you have to do this...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0490par0386	Mr. Hard-working, please discuss the matter.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0387	You have to do this, that's our solution. You have to show us the way.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0491par0388	Mr. President, why don't you call it in?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0389	This is what we expect of you, and hopefully the new Parliament will be satisfying, satisfying for all of us in this sense...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0492par0390	Tell me about the cupcake, how to do it, how to beat it!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0467par0391	When we face our children, I say we do our duty, earn our wages, and come out with a clear conscience. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0493par0394	Thank you, Mr. Hard-working.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0494par0395	Mr. President, as lawmakers here, we know what our mission is, and we need them to study their own lessons before we can use shields to teach lawmakers here. We say our word here. We have eyes, we have ears, we have ears, we are not thirsty satan against injustice. We're talking here, but first of all, when these fingers are raised, at least you'll do a better job in power if they wake up first with a conscience, and then after they've touched your mind. Don't give your fingers to the conscience of others, don't give them to his mind.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0495par0397	Mr. President, what is the nature of this conversation?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0496par0399	That's exactly the way we're doing it right now.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0497par0400	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0498par0401	Congressmans, there is a motion to continue the talks under Article 72 of the Civil Code: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 72 of the Civil Code, we propose that negotiations continue. It was given to ensure that our MPs have more information about the bill.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0499par0406	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0498par0407	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the MPs, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0500par0410	Mr. President, while we were just listening to the speaker, of course, there were comments about our groups. We've expressed our views in the motion this morning, and we'd like to discuss Turkey's agenda. Really, it's 23 o'clock. If you don't put the truth of Turkey on the agenda of a parliament that's been extended up to 100, if the MPs don't know what they're going to talk about 24 hours or 48 hours ago, if the lawmakers can't come pre-preparing, they'll fight each other in vain if you put about 300 or 400 deputies in front of the podium. It's not a style, it's a production, it's not an efficiency style. We're telling our friends that they're really smart. Come, let the House be on the agenda a week, 15 days ahead. Who will talk about what, who will take what, who will investigate, come prepared, come scientific, speak properly. Let's take advantage of each other. That's what we want.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0498par0411	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0500par0412	Mr. President, this is really not a good mood for the House. It's not going well. This watch, you want eleven for these contracts? So this work will save you? No.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0498par0413	Mr. Kaplan, the matter has been made clear and your word has been made. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0500par0415	But if there's a consensus, there's dialogue, there's compromise, there's no need for eleven o'clock. It'll be done in a good way.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0498par0416	Thank you. According to Article 81 of the Civil Code, the question-answer will be carried out for 20 minutes. Ten minutes is ten minutes to answer. Mr. Oğan, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Türkkan, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Vural, Mr. Ugly, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Bay Bayurtutan and Mr. Farktuk have entered the system to ask questions. I'll give you a minute. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0501par0420	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the bill has been transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission, Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission, but it has not been discussed in these commissions and the commission's position has not been taken. Do you find this approach correct as a representative of the government? My second question is that the Multi-Substantial Investment Guarantees Agency has provided a guarantee of $1.2 billion for foreign investments in our country. As part of this $1.2 billion guarantee, which of the countries' investments are included? Are there U.S. and Israeli companies in these companies? Third: What companies of Turkey's companies under a $177.5m guarantee in other countries are involved? Thank you for your information.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0502par0425	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0503par0427	Mr. President, thank you. Is the Multi-Substantiated Investment Corporation (MIGA) returning as an insurance company to collect the investment guarantee from the relevant state? If he collects, did the company Eurogold, which had previously searched for cyanide and gold in Bergama, apply to Turkey in this sense, and in return for any fee, any money, taken from Turkey? Another question: Does our Ministry of National Education have a study of fallen teachers while our Minister of Education is here? With so many unemployed teachers...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0504par0430	Mr. Oğan, you have the right to ask questions only under the Charter.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0503par0431	What's the reason for the use of a substitute and a paid teacher? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0504par0433	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0505par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister: our Adana province, which has been a subject of wealth and Turkish films in the past years, is unfortunately in your power now ranked first in unemployment and poverty, and our second province, which has received the least share of investments. In Adana, industrial facilities have become a shutdown, unemployment is at an extreme stage, poverty and hunger. Do you have new investments in Adana? What projects do you have to prevent unemployment in Adana? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0506par0438	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0507par0440	Mr. Minister, production at Balıkesir Susurluk Sugar Factory was suspended in 2011-2012 due to the lack of adequate beet production of the Turkish Sugar Factory Corporation. The workforce, which operates in the district, has also been affected. A total of 355 workers were sent to work elsewhere. The price for sugar beets is less than 16 per cent of the main standard value of beets produced in the region, so producers can't produce sugar beets in the region. On purpose, at the Balıkesir Susurlik Sugar Factory, black stones were sent instead of coal to drop beets' pos, the factory didn't work for ten days, and the beets lying there dropped the polar value and caused the factory to suffer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is this a factory known for sale?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0506par0443	Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0508par0445	Mr. Secretary, how did you come up with a solution other than the policy of financing foreign debt with debt, while economist politicians in you have expressed that this deficit is growing increasingly negative for the country's economy, that the economy is running the economy, that you've appointed it? What's your next opinion?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0506par0446	Thank you. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0509par0448	Mr. President, dear members, I have a question for Mr. Secretary regarding the multi-sided Investment Guarantee Fund, which our friends have just discussed heavily. In Turkey, I want to know whether the investments under the guarantee of those $1.2 billion are directly investments or portfolio investments, which are covered by guarantees against political risks. And has the Telecom company taken risks by the Guaranteed Fund in this context, especially after Telekom (Telecom) was sold to a company that had a close relationship with the ruling party? In this fund, Turkey has a partnership of 48 per thousand, around $8.1m. Turkey has sold and taken political risks... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is that what he's guaranteed against? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0510par0454	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0511par0456	Thank you, Mr. President. And I think that these governments who pay the highest interest in the republic's era, especially in terms of foreign debt, are taking even greater risks with this fund, and I expect an explanation. On the other hand, as we all know, the second joke of Article 41 of the Constitution takes the necessary measures for the peace and welfare of the family and establishes the organization. The state is based on the Constitution and the protection of the family, its integrity, and our laws are designed according to it. Mr. Minister of Education, represented by the government at the time of the government today, has made it possible that by closing the transfers from the co-existence during the summer of 2011, the national education inspectors, who are his own members, and the owners of the estate, who have been sentenced on the eve of Ramadan, have been doing separate duties from their wives. Our Ministry of National Education had problems like a ball of light, and management issues were added. I expect Mr. Secretary to make a statement on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0512par0460	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0513par0462	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, more consumption is more than income, more imports than exports are open to a system based on more imitations than inventions. Such an economy creates a society of commerce and consumption. This is an open, hot, foreign investment balance. Guarantee foreign investments and finance debt in this way are not permanent solutions. In order to finance the Cari gaps, guaranteeing foreign investments is not the way out. An economy that opens up 70 billion dollars a year is not sustainable. It may be necessary for the free market economy to guarantee Turkey's foreign investments so generously, but in Turkey, how, in what way, do you intend to guarantee the production of livestock, agriculture, trade, tourism, industry? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0512par0464	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0514par0466	Mr. President, I've come to know Mr. Minister Omar Dinçer, director of a professional organisation during the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. So I don't find it surprising that he's making a very controversial statement in public because he has a structure in which he doesn't care about government promises, ignores the principle of continuity in the state, is closed to dialogue, his party complains that even lawmakers can't communicate. He is an antidemocratic person who is far from searching for the common mind, who sees social groups, especially occupational organisations, not as confederates, but as enemies, structures that need to be destroyed. He's the enemy of finding a right to every suggestion that says, "I'm a college teacher, I know." But he doesn't know it, and he doesn't know it, and he doesn't know it, and he's the enemy of looking for a right to tell the stories of monkey desperation on his personal website.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0515par0467	Mr. President, that's not a question! Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0516par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0517par0469	Please, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0518par0470	The past ministry period...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0519par0472	Interrogation, Mr. President, not criticism.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0517par0473	Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0520par0474	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about Mustafakemalpaşa Hamzabey Elementary School, Mr. Minister of National Education here, but...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0517par0476	Mr. Irony, please, you will ask about the bill, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0520par0477	I'm sorry to hear that Mr. Minister Omar Dinçer, Mr. Minister Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and Mr. Second President Ismet Inönu, were applauding as a Minister of State who made false statements. He wants to tell the Minister that I don't think so, and that's why I don't ask questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0517par0479	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0521par0481	Mr. President, thank you very much. We can't move our investment potential while we're dealing with details like the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation Convention. In 2006, Ceyhan was declared an E.E.D. zone. The President and the Prime Minister will hold ceremonies here as the oil starts to flow, and this will be Rotterdam the second. With refinery facilities, with petrochemistry facilities, there will be $10 billion in investments, and thousands of jobs will be provided. However, it has been said that since 2006, unfortunately, not a single nail has been struck in this area. There were no arrangements to open up the investor's path, not even a panel of entrepreneurs has been created. The land was designed and the fields were not made into forests, which were treasured, which were not identified as personal land, which were not made into publicizations, and the infrastructure could not be created. This is about Ceyhan territory, and I'm asking Mr. Secretary, are they planning on clearing the way for these investments, foreign investors and domestic investors?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0517par0483	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0485	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, there are a lot of questions that aren't directly relevant to the bill.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0517par0487	You won't answer them, Minister.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0488	I'll try to answer the things I know and know as much as I can. Once, he was not seen on the commission. He said, "Our Congressman Illum." We've been given enough time to negotiate in the Tali commissions, but within that time, our secondary commissions have appreciated not meeting. It's the discretion of the House, of our commissions. As a government, we can't say anything to that. The discretion of the commissions of our parliament is not in our government's jurisdiction. Of course, it's better if all commissions are discussed, it's more controversial, but I think it's possible that an interview on the main commission has provided adequate evaluation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0523par0490	Minister, has the Plan and Budget Commission met?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0524par0491	Mr. Congressman, please, Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0492	The time is short, so let me try to answer. There's a lot of questions.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0524par0493	Mr. Secretary, answer the questions, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0494	You said $1.2 billion guaranteed, who's there? There's nothing hidden here. The lists are here, so if I try to read them one by one, it'll take a lot of time, and we can give you copies. It's very clear which companies are taking advantage of it, obviously, here. This isn't a secret business. Our friends can give you the list of these. I'd also like to correct a number. A note to me from our bureaucratic friends also states that the guarantee amount of guaranteed foreign capital investments in our country is $1.6 billion.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0525par0496	That's what the motive says.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0497	It could have been given by different dates, so let's say we've changed that -- yes, it's a number that's changed since the reason. And the other specific companies, as I said again, the lists are clear, so we can give you information from there.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0526par0499	Does the government have a right to an insurance company?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0527par0500	Minister, please continue to answer the questions.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0501	You're saying that he has the right to procrastinate from the state? Let's put it this way: it does not bring any responsibility to this country. As for foreign capital investments in our country and the guarantees provided by the MiGA in Turkish investors' investments in other countries, the obligations are not an obligation to our country.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0526par0502	Sir, let's say the MIGA Bergama Company has $100 billion...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0527par0503	Mr. Secretary, go ahead and answer.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0504	Now, let's not talk mutually...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0528par0505	Actually, Mr. Secretary, it would be better if you did.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0506	... Then they'll pass on more details to our friends if you want them to.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0529par0507	You're not answering my question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0508	He's not bringing a burden to the country, I'm making it very clear.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0529par0509	He's taking money from Turkey, MIA.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0510	It does not bring a burden to our country. There have been many questions regarding our Minister of National Education. Of course, he probably would when he wanted to answer, but there were insults. That shows how many missions our Minister of National Education has taken. In this country, there are expressions that we really need education not only in a technical sense, but in a very different way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] He had a question about Adana, about unemployment, Mr. Congressman. I don't have any details on the investments right now, so we can provide it and give it to you, and we're already posting it in the county department. In unemployment, we have the province of Adana, right, in the front row, but we also have what we call the rate of employment. Our Adana province is actually much higher up there. So the unemployment rate is high in the cities where it has a high level of participation in the labour force, but the number of employees can also be high. As far as our Adana province is concerned, as far as the number of employees are concerned, it's not from our very bad provinces, but it's probably a high unemployment rate because it's migrating, but I know there's been a serious decline in it lately. If you want more specific information, we can get it to you later. The matter of the sugar factory, of course, is a specific issue, you're talking about a management error. I have no personal knowledge of your relationship with him. It's up to the Privatisation Administration, you know, our Finance Ministry is connected in that sense, technically, maybe some of our other ministers. I mean, there's no way I can tell you the truth about that. You're talking about a management flaw. Whether it's true or not, of course it's worth checking out.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0530par0516	I wonder if he's being tolerated to sell it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0517	There's no such thing. If you decide to sell it, you'll sell it, and until you sell it, it's up to all the executives to run it well. That can't be thought of. But there may be flaws in management, there may be mistakes. It could be the ones that are going to be sold, it could be the ones that aren't. These are also the issues that need to be discussed. We've had different parliamentary questions about the foreign trade deficit, and they've focused on the current open issue. We really need to discuss this matter in our country. As far as financial balances go, by budget balances, thank God, we're in a position to make a lot of countries jealous. The Maastricht Criters of Europe don't fit, but our financial balances do. Our debt rates, our debt rates, are also very, very low, when you compare them to Europe.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0531par0519	Mr. Secretary, it's not the national income, it's the domestic income.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0520	As of this year, we're down to 40 percent. Our banking system is extremely sound. In this sense, we are among the countries that are positively divided in the environment of this global crisis in the world. But it's clear, as you say, it's a subject we must follow. And since we're already aware of that, we've put the current deficit in front of us as one of the most fundamental issues of our latest mid-term program. Many different measures and policies facing this are in our document, both medium and long-term, both short-term. I'm sure our council will also discuss the budget process. I want to make it very clear that we're open to all kinds of ideas here. Our country is a country without energy, an outside country dependent on energy.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0532par0522	We're an energetic country.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0523	On the other hand, we need to increase domestic production especially in intermediaries. On the other hand, we need to increase direct foreign capital and improve the quality of financing of the current deficit. MIGA is one of the most important instruments in the world. So there's no such thing as resetting the current deficit for Turkey at this stage. We're a developing country, and we have to use the savings of the world. And that's not a bad thing. If you can take the savings of the world and grow up faster, that's fine. But of course, the level and shape of this is important, and it's important how you finance it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0532par0524	So domestic savings isn't important?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0525	And we've financed this as Turkey so far, but we're also taking various measures to make it sustainable, and we're going to keep taking it. The question is whether it covers portfoy investments or direct investments. This involves direct investments. MIGA, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation is a matter of direct investments, not portfolio investments. I'd like to point that out.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0533par0527	A question about telecom...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0522par0528	The Ceyhan energy zone again, the energy-related issues, of course, are very important. In our latest Incentive Law, we encourage what we call a large - scale investment. Among them are these large-scale projects. Turkey, on the one hand, is a transit country, and on the other hand, it's really energy here, as natural gas, in terms of increasing the added value and marketing of products that we import as oil. This potential will surely be assessed here. The infrastructure of this has been created. I hope that within the world's investment environment in our country, this region will continue to receive these investments quickly. Of course, the questions asked when you look at them are very different areas. We tried to answer as much as we could when our language turned. I'd like to thank all of our MPs for their contributions. I wish this law to be good, too. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0532	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. Mr. Dinçer, you have a request.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0535par0535	Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0536	What do you want to say, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0535par0537	A friend just used some phrases to mention my name. I don't know about...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0538	What statement did he use, Minister?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0535par0539	He used phrases that were directed at me, even insulted. I'm going to make a very brief statement to him -- don't worry -- so he won't have a say again.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0540	I'll give you two minutes according to Article 69 of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0535par0544	Yes, thank you. One of the lawmakers, I don't know his name, I'm guessing, is one of the new friends, I think he wants to make himself aware. So he took an attitude that would give me that awareness by throwing stones or taunting a minister, and he mentioned my name and said some things about me. I've answered all of these, and they're on the website that he reached out to. I congratulate him, he's managed to get to my website once, but there was a title to the stories he just told, the management lectures, where those stories were found, and to learn from them, I think he hasn't been able to get it out yet, so let him read the other stories, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0547	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Continue]] The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'll submit it to your votes, but the vote...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0536par0555	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I'm the one who...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0556	Wait a second, let me finish this up. You should have told me before, one second. There's a motion for an open vote, so I'll read the motion and call the signers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose an open vote. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, Isparta? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Lütfü Türkkan, Bigeli? Here. Muharrem Varlı, Adana? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Oktay Ozturk, Erzurum? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Sinan Okan, Iğdir? Here. Enver Erdem, Elazig? Here. Celal Adan, Istanbul? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Safik Ugly, Hatay? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, a clear vote on the transfer of to Articles of Law Bill 40: [[x]] Thus, it is agreed that the bill be passed on to its articles.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0537par0592	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0593	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0537par0594	Mr. President, I'd like to respond to what Mr. Secretary just said about me.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0534par0595	Take your seats; I'll turn the system on. I'll give you two minutes, according to Article 69. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0538par0598	Mr. Secretary, you're being answered!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0539par0599	May the Minister be here, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0540par0602	Mr. President, a moment ago, Mr. Secretary, speaking of me, a friend whose name I don't know, has always shown his skill at the point of deflection of real issues, but over the years, he knows me by name, by my last name, by where I work. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. I have stated that because of the issues I witnessed during my time as Secretary General of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union, he did not care about the promises made by the state. There's no insult in that. Although the Prime Minister has promised to receive services from free clinics, the minister has changed, Mr. Secretary, and I can't keep that promise. Like, right now, he's apologizing to the unassigned teachers. The previous Minister, Mr. Faruk Çelik, has promised to bring up the proposals in a package to resolve the problems of the pharmacists, and there is no way that we can come up with a solution when the Minister arrives. That word is the bond of the former minister, a false promise, which is impossible to keep. That's what I'm talking about when I say he's not sensitive to government promises and the principle of state continuity. Another issue is that the example of desperation that he published on his personal website, even though he was looking for the rights of many professional organisations, and the social parties blamed him for breaking the rights struggle against him, while he himself, not only wanted to reach up to a banana hung above, but all the rest of them, were being beaten down and in order that the monkeys in the cages were replaced, but that no monkey had ever been beaten up, as an example of desperation, which had been published by all the workers in order to give everyone the benefit of all trade organizations in the squares. There's no insult in my words. And I'm glad he doesn't remember my name.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0541par0608	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0542par0609	I wish the Minister would answer that. That's an important accusation.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0541par0615	I'm reading article one: IN THE AUDIENCES OF A LOT OF TRANSLATION PRODUCTIONS TO THE CONTACT OF CHANGES BUILDING The amendments made in Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation (MIGA) were approved. This is Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan asking for the People's Movement Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0543par0623	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I've been promised the views of the Nationalist Action Party on the 40th Amendment, which is being discussed, and I salute your grand delegation again. Mr. President, I've been trying to explain what the MIA is, what the bill is, what the MIGA is, when we're discussing the general bill. Now, we need to work this out both ways. What's meant to be expressed here is that Turkey wants to be expressed that the investment will flow with this incident, and this feeling is meant to be given, and that's not really the case. Why am I saying this? You want to lure the foreign source to Turkey. For what reason would you like to film it? One, and most importantly, your savings are inadequate, you seek foreign resources, but this deal is not about that. Investments in Turkey have been a target of public investments last year in real terms, and when you look at the programme this year, you see that the rise in public investments is negative for 2012. Now, what are you doing to your country because you're underprivileged to save foreign investors? You do. You need one, another source. What kind of source do you need? Your foreign trade deficit is big, your current accountability deficit is huge. Just a moment ago, Mr. Secretary talks about some economic indicators as well as about Turkey's current deficit of operations as if it were the deficit of Patagonia. In your time in power, you haven't made any real progress on this; the bottom line of the problem is that you haven't done any work on it. Now, you're saying that you've started a series of studies in order to make the product of the internal processing regime, which reduces the regime, including the Undersecretary of Foreign Trade, in order to make its products cheaper inside. It's the right approach, but you haven't done that in a long time. Now you're doing this, you're not preventing current transactions balance, foreign trade deficits, import growth from being much more than export growth. I wasn't going to enter the mid-term program today, but I saw the Minister here, and I want to tell you in person, he's my colleague. Now, the mid-term programme, which should be published in May, can only be published in October. Why are you doing this? You're doing this because you don't have the confidence, because you don't have the goals you set. Now, you do the mid-term program, the mid-term financial plan, the investment scale, the budget call, all on the same day. And within a week, there's a budget. Is that true, Mr. Secretary? You explain all this on the same day, and you do it just before the budget is delivered to the House. Now, when does this have to be done? By the end of May, the mid-term plan must be made, and on June 15th, the financial plan must be made. You're not sure of yourself, you're not seeing it. It's not like you've been able to inject the bag you took out of the law last year into the middle-term plans, into the annual programs that you think you want to do, into the things that you want to do. You don't have an account, you don't really have a book, it's all growing. Now, when you look at it like that, you're actually using the process regime. You do 100 units of exports, you import 80, you put it in the product you export. This is just like when you export secularism to Egypt. What are you doing with an incident that you're having trouble with from the Supreme Court and an incident that you're having trouble with? What do you put 80 units in 1 unit or 100 units of exports, secular exports? You're trying to export something that you import from the outside, that you're injected with, that you're ordered to do, that you don't have. Now, there's trouble here. I really wanted to give you this in particular as an example. This incident, I've just said, is a matter of guaranteeing our Turkey's $177m investment. Well, where is it? Is there any in Libya? I do. How much? $1.6 billion is what we're doing here, which actually means that the risk is greater because what would happen if our investment was a more valid investment out there? What were they supposed to do to us when we got there? Our investments should have been more at risk. More investments are coming to Turkey and more risk incidents are emerging. What do you have to do with this? You have to make good use of it. You're bringing them here now, they're being discussed, I just said, medium-term plan, medium-term program, financial discipline, investment generality, budget call, but you have to be afraid of Mr. Secretary Allah, and I know that the authorities of the university of my science or universities in all the provinces, you can come here and hide it in Ankara, but do they not come and bring their budgets in accordance with the goals given by the government in the Ministry of Finance? If you say they don't, you're not telling the truth, I'm not saying you're lying, I'm afraid of God, but surely you're not telling the truth, because everyone's going there to see that budget. We're hearing that there's a problem with their investments, and your other friends, your friends, your friends in power, they're coming into their ears, and they're following the problems of their provinces. What's in here with what we're saying? There's nothing missing. Now, when you look at it, I especially want to tell you about this medium-term program, Mr. Secretary: I worked for that State Planning Agency, and you worked for it. I'm really sorry you weren't there when this middle-term plan was announced with a five-month delay. What if you call it the Department of Development, planning in economics, economic understanding, in the capacity of representation there? It really upsets me that the DPT could not be represented -- the name of the nation. When the Deputy Prime Minister said that we had a mid-term programme in all international institutions, the medium-term programme in Turkey was unfortunately not announced. You're not just telling us the truth, you're misleading the outside.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0544par0634	Congressman, the mike's on. You don't have to shout too loud. We hear you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0543par0635	I'm not going to take lessons from you, please, let everyone know their place.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0545par0636	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0546par0637	We're uncomfortable!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0543par0638	Mr. President, on duty for what?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0545par0639	Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0543par0640	Thank you, Mr. President. I know, and I'm being very clear, and let him lie to me, and look, I'm telling them that you're not telling the truth. We need to tell these people the truth, the truth, and you'll know what you're missing. Come here, dear, and force us, and we'll be pleased with it. Take it. Is it true or not? That's what I'm saying. Now, look, I just want to say one more thing: you can't do a flip here. Mr. Secretary, what has the Minister of National Education been through? He just broke his finger to get assigned to his assistant. You know what else is out there? You can't be anything by saying things so easily. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0547par0645	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0548par0649	Mr. President, Ali Demirçalı will speak. There's been a mistake.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0547par0650	Ali Demirçallı, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Demirçalı.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0549par0652	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to amendments in the Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation Convention. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers have mentioned that there is only one man's administration in this country and the national chief Fascism, who has made politics inferior to him by slandering him, who is trying to benefit the party's leadership, who is trying to save his own political future. This is a great ignorance. Those who knowingly twist history, turn and look in the mirror. Let them go out of the age of ignorance first.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0547par0654	Mr. Demirçalı, this has been discussed, discussed and decided. Please, let's not go back.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0550par0655	Like timcit risotto, it's like...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0547par0656	Talk about matter, please.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0551par0657	Precious lawmakers aim to attract private investments in the developing country's economies, providing guarantees against political risks, as well as boosting foreign investments, when the bill and reason on the agenda are examined. In this context, I know very well that Adana, one of our country's most important investments, is my constituency. We can't even find the local investor, let alone film the foreign investor. When our province was a major metropolis in the first state of industrialization of Adana, it was driven into a major crisis over the past ten years after the collapse of the cotton-based industrialisation, over 50 major factories and corporations, such as Sümerbank, Sümerbank, Süssa. As these factories closed down and the city was dragged into a major crisis, the current government stood by and watched. The crisis is getting deeper. This power is not even aware of Adana, let alone producing solutions. Members of parliament, city administrations, state institutions, publicist and publicist administration in our province should have demonstrated their understanding, but they have only opened the way for global capitalism and the Rant economy. In different parts of the city, urban transformation projects are being implemented that remove social tissue and are not suitable for public benefit. We all know that these projects, based solely on financial revenue and special Ranta, do not offer better venues. While the city should have a sense of architecture, social and cultural values, natural resources, there is an understanding that is just trying to create resources for administrations and certain capital groups. Adana, as it is known, has the largest, largest, most efficient and wetlands in Turkey's geography, and has the most suitable environment for human life due to the Mediterranean climate, so it looks like the most suitable city for migration. For these reasons, in the rapid urbanization of our country, Adana grew up taking a very intensive migration from its eastern and southeast regions, its population quickly reached 2.5 million, but I didn't hear it, I didn't see it. It turned its back on its tactics. In the past, there is no more Adana, which has been a subject of wealth and occupation and Turkish films, represented by Vahi Oz. Today, Adana is in the press with her culture, her fertile land, her industry, her economy, not her activities at the courthouse. Members of parliament, behind all the setbacks in our city, the responsibilities of the AKP Powers who approached Adana with a vote account and calculated that investment would not become a vote. Today, Adana was not encouraged to be neither a full agricultural city nor a full industrial city. The cultural identity created in the 3,000-year history of urbanization has not been maintained, but has been cemented in the hands of the mayors of Metropolitan City, who run the land run. Today, in Adana, the main city is quite ineffective. Instead of producing solutions in the main city, there is a lack of solutions. Because of the indifference of the government of Adana, it is an unclaimed city. It has become a slogan for the unclaimed Adana. Adana, who has been raised or raised in unemployment, poverty and corruption, does not deserve this. Even Shakirpaşa Airport, one of Turkey's oldest airports, was widely seen, and it was decided to move this airport within the framework of the ruling populist policies. The university was opened many years ago, except for Çukurova University, the only university in the city. Today, however, even the Adana Metropolitan Municipality is acting as a proxy under the wrathful policies of power.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0552par0663	Political extortion, Mr. Ali, political extortion.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0551par0664	To put it simply, my lonely, orphaned city, Adana, now wants to be remembered, to see its rightful reputation, and to be a city that produces value for reinvestment. To do so, the power must draw near to Adana, before it divides me from you. How can foreign investors own the most fertile land in our country if we don't own this town that is open to development? At this point, what the government must do urgently: first of all, unemployment must be defeated. The steps for employment must be taken. Adana should be taken into special incentives and moved to a preferential point for domestic and foreign investors. The Prime Minister made important promises in the polls. He should be able to stand up for those promises he's made. These words must be fulfilled quickly. First of all, domestic and foreign investments in the ovary-Ceyhan basin, which is being used as an energy basin because of the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan oil pipeline, must be routed rapidly. Adana can be made into an investment paradise in every way. Without these investments, you cannot solve the basic problems of Adana. In terms of urbanization, it must be directed to urban transformation projects very quickly. There is no other way to resolve this distortion, but first the subway, which collapses on Adana as a nightmare, must be bought by the Ministry of Transport, as in other provinces. Dear MPs, I ask you, if there's no idea of democratic local governance and participation in a city, if there's an unscheduled and unsupervised city, if there's a master's plan for illegal construction and permanent development forgiveness, if there's no master's plan to regulate transportation, if agricultural land is being used out of purpose, and if there's trouble for the runt, if there's a healthy infrastructure, and most importantly, if there's no health infrastructure in the city, and most importantly, if real unemployment is to lose its identity, if its population is over 25 percent of green-carded, hard to survive, narrow-income citizens, if Turkey has low-income unemployment rates, if it's first-income in the city, which is the city's the city's the last city's most recent city's in the city. This makus fortune of Adana must change now. The government must stop looking on Adana sideways and make the necessary investments before it is too late. The time for Adana must be given the necessary attention and attention before it is too late. This is expected from the current government of Adana. As Adana MP, I will be a follower of Adana's righteous request. I wish that the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation Convention, which makes our agenda, was beneficial to both our Adana and Turkey. My respects to you, Mr. President, and to my dear friends.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0553par0670	Thank you, Mr. Demirçalı. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0554par0673	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, you see, the Council of Parliament! It's almost 11:00, and there's no contract until 11:00. Look, think this through!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0555par0674	Mr. Kaplan, we'll talk about this at the advisory board, you talk about the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0554par0675	If you ignore the groups and ignore the groups and act as if there are no three groups of opposition, you will be satisfied with one contract -- at eleven o'clock. I think you'll be in a situation like taking it out in 24 hours, but how long do you keep it up, it's a different matter. Because it's a fact that the Civil Code gives such an opportunity that, based on the power of the ruling majority, I can rule this Parliament as I please. There, we see, you've made a motion. There's no emergency, there's no emergency laws, there's no agendas, the commissions haven't worked yet, the bill of the 24th term, the proposals haven't arrived. The government, by God, has issued five decrees today. Now, look, I mean, you're making a ruling on the law, and you don't need Congress, so why are you working until eleven? Brother, there's a ban on forced labor. If Reza Turmen were here... the title of Article 4 of the European Convention on Human Rights is prohibited. And don't bother your friends. Look, they're all sitting, so at least they'd bring a book or read a novel. I mean, if you really run Parliament plannedly now, they would have prepared their speech on that subject. Turn this wrong. Look, I'm telling you, it's no use. Otherwise, there's a lot to say about economic politics. Now, if you argue with the MIGA here, they'll say, "Sister, what is your partnership in the MIGA?" How much money do you have there? You have $8.8 million in U.S. dollars at the World Bank. You have $8.8 million in money at the World Bank, which is MIA. For God's sake, if they did the hard work, economics, and time of this House scientifically, they'd suffer more damage than the profits we'd receive from MIA. Let's take these cameras, these lights, the secretaries, the consultants, the vehicles, the drivers, the friends, the people who are in good health, take all of your $8.8 million from MIA, the World Bank, and take his return and take it, and then say, "What did Parliament do for the country here?" Friends, the world has had three depressions, and all three depressions, all three economic crises, were based on the economy. The long period of depression brought to World War I was the greatest of economic crises. After the disaster of World War I, he entered into world sharing between powerful imperialist forces and defeated countries. The 1929 depression is referred to as the great depression. World War II brought racism, fascism, Neosism, Mussolini, Hitler, you know, Turkey was more affected than it was then, even though we didn't go to war. The 2008 global crisis is nothing less than that. We've told this a lot in Congress, and we said, "This global crisis is something that started in the United States, affecting Europe and affecting the world." It's inevitable, like dominoes. No, the tangent will be passed. Mr. Finance Minister is slowly coming to the facts this year at the budget talk, and he says in very clear terms that we have 60 per cent imports, exports with the European Union before energy. Pay attention to over $100 billion, over $100 billion. We have 60% of U.S. and European imports, exports. This is down to 44 percent, my friends. What's a 44% decline? There's post-crisis unemployment, unemployment, there's criticism, there's dismissals, there's increased unemployment rates in Europe and there's increased unemployment rates. It's affecting us from here. Why? From 60 percent to 44 percent of our imports, exports. When you hit 100 billion, we lost $20 billion from here to here. We're talking about $8.8 million. Look, a second point about energy... In terms of energy, it also comes from the World Bank, to guarantee some of these mining licenses, HES licenses, thermal licenses, coal licenses, stone coal licenses, Sinop Τun's nuclear power plants, Mersin. The nuclear plant to Needleda, the thermal plant in Şırnak, was not enough to supply them with eight new coal-based thermal power plants, so that's the guarantee of these -- these are the termite tenders. For who? Small little tenders, for corporations. Why? Somewhere there's no minimum rule of law, no minimum democracy, no stability of those governments. Without minimum law, without minimum independent judgment, without a minimum state order, investments have no guarantee. The capital is smart, too. The capital wants a minimum democracy for him. Look at TÜSİAD's reports, I know, after the 1980 military coup, in 1985, TÜSİAD did the first work on the Constitution. Human rights, the development of freedoms, the most effort towards membership in the European Union is done by businessmen, notice, TÜSIAAD, Economic Development Foundation, others. Why does he do it? It's a minimum legal state's obligation to secure that money, that capital. So when there's a law order, human rights, law and independent justice, he can only feel his own capital secure. When you put your understanding of the state of security into the budget of this year, you still live in a country that employs 40 per cent of security, the gendarmes, the coast guard; again, the money you're spending on military spending; and the contractors, special forces, etc., etc., and the armed element that has reached a total of 2 million people -- a country that employs an armed element of 2 million people -- 2 million people -- and one man stands at the head of 34 -- when you hit 74 million people. Look, one gun for 34. Now, will you, in this country, protect a minimum rule of law, a mechanism of justice, human rights with guns, democracy, law, law, parliament, parliamentary regime? When you can't set it up, the security state comes forward, and freedoms are shrinking in front of the security state, democracy is shrinking, independent justice is not a thing, it's a long arrest. We're now going through a period in prisons where there are the most prisoners and prisoners in the history of the Republic, 135 thousand people in prison, and even four prisoners in one bed in prison. Now, here, of course, when the World Bank gets here, they won't hand over their money without securing it. Who's gonna make those three pennies... our government will guarantee it. Who? Our government, the Treasury Department, will treasure it. I mean, from where? The citizen will pay taxes, enter the treasure. With the citizen's tax, you will guarantee those companies. What if those companies fail? What if those companies are dust? What if those companies leave? And in the face of the guarantees of those companies, just like the banks that went down in 2001, when the money went down, what would you give the citizen's tax and what would you get? In these guarantee agreements... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What do you get when you give him a warrant? Nothing. That's the whole point, guys. That's the whole point, and we're all doing it wrong. May God bless us all and give us health. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0556par0686	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar, who asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0689	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I just told you that the trial has been settled in my speech. Friends reminded me of international agreements. Let them bring their agreements on Libya and Syria, and let us talk about them. I was interrupted, I want to finish. Congressmans, the trial was settled.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0558par0691	What else is taken care of?
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0692	Not only has the trial been resolved in the new era of the AKP.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0558par0693	Use another word!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0694	Let me decide what to say. If you're going to transfer, please make a list of what we can and can't discuss...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0559par0695	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0696	...in his opinion, let's act on that list.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0559par0697	Mr. Toptaş, no congressman will decide what you're going to talk about, but you have to comply with the Civil Code, Mr. Toptaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0699	Not only has the trial been resolved, but the basic rights of the Turkish nation been resolved. Human rights has been dealt with. The immunity of privacy has been taken care of. Rights, legal security is taken care of. The independence of the judiciary has been resolved. So our democratic life, the future of our people, has been resolved. The future of our children, of our grandchildren has been resolved while the judgment is being taken care of. What happened? Your people will ask you after they've seen it done. The path of the corrupters has been opened.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0559par0700	Mr. Topstone, please talk about the substance.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0701	It has been opened for those who have corrupted the tender, forgers, for those who have taken the right to orphans with false documents, for those who have said, "I did, I did." The book of corruption and bribes in the city of Kayseri has been opened.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0560par0702	Get to the stuff, get to the stuff!
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0703	Congressmans, this is not the road. You must learn well. This road leads the country not to democracy, but to desire.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0561par0704	Mr. Topstone, please talk about the substance. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0705	Mr. President, if I may, Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0561par0706	I'm not, Mr. Topstone, please, but...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0707	This road leads the country to the Inquisition. This road leads to medieval darkness. This path leads back to the Abdulhamite era.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0561par0708	Mr. Topstone, please... please, Mr. Topstone, talk about the substance.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0709	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0561par0710	I'd like to invite you to stay on topic, Mr...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0711	We're watching international agreements, we're discussing them, but those who have taken care of the judiciary refuse to implement international agreements in Article 92 of the Constitution, agreements with internal law, which is also a matter of agreements, please allow me. When you say Abdülhamit, it takes you back to the Abdülhamit period. When you say "Abdülhamit" they say "Nulu hakan" or something. I'm not saying it, but the great poet Mehmet Akif says he's a coward who cries out in fear of his shadow. He's called us the Shariat for thirty-three years. Now, look, if you go into this period, if you go into this process, that's what you're going to accomplish by taking care of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law insist I come to the articles, friends, and Mr. President warns me. I just told you. Let's talk about what you've done with Syria. Bring in the agreements you made with Libya, bring in the things you've given up, and we'll discuss them. Bring in the radar deal with the U.S.A. missile shield, and we'll talk about it. Let's say you set up the radar for Malatya-Kurecik, follow the neighbours of Turkey from Turkey's territory, follow the Middle East, follow Iran, contact Israel. Bring that deal in, and we'll talk about it.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0562par0715	Take care of MIGA.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0716	Yeah. You've got a lot to suffer from this CHP.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0563par0717	Congressmans, please... do not interfere with Mr. Hatibe.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0718	You won't be able to play any horse in this House. I'm telling you the deals you need to bring in, bring them in, and we'll talk about it. You will not continue to manage this country with American projects, with your secret dealings with America, with your secret talks in Oslo. The Republican People's Party will, of course, make you suffer.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0564par0721	Come to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0722	Mr. Hodja, keep your fatwa going.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0565par0723	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0557par0724	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0565par0726	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Mehmet Ölturk, Hatay MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Önturk.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0566par0729	Mr. President, I have made a pledge by the Council of Ministers to express my personal views on the Court of Ministers as a person regarding the amendments made in Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation, which was agreed on 4 April 2011, with a number of 40 rows on our agenda. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, lawmakers, as it is known, foreign trade for developing countries has a positive impact on economic growth and development in the long term. Foreign direct capital investments are of great importance to the economy because export, investment and production increase are largely based on imported goods and technology. Foreign capital investments are a major economic resource in the supply of exports, export diversification, and therefore foreign capital investments in the supply of foreign exchange needs, for the long-term growth and development of developing countries, which are inadequate for investments and growth that are sought for capital and austerity. Direct foreign capital investments give the home country's economy a boost in domestic competition. In the event that domestic industry has a monopoly structure, the monopoly will be effective in eliminating its structure, increasing domestic production and lowering prices. On the other hand, making direct foreign capital investments by large multinational companies will have a positive impact on the production, production, exports, and growth in total, for reasons such as the ability to provide advanced technology, marketing, sales and distribution organisations that are spread across the globe, and for the same reasons that these markets are required to provide capital in other countries. Our local firms will learn a lot from competing with these companies, and our technological savings capacity will also increase. The main factors that are generally important in determining the location of foreign investments carried out by multinational companies can be met under several main topics: economic and political stability, a suitable business environment and the presence of appropriate legal and physical infrastructure, the minimal level of bureaucratic barriers, the ability to transfer qualified labour power, the profit out of the free country, and the inconsistencies that will arise in the host country are connected to a proper solution mechanism. In the process of globalization, production factors quickly became able to change the country, causing the competition for foreign capital to also increase. In order to attract foreign investments, countries go to national regulations to encourage foreign investments and protect foreign investments. At this point, the MIA (MIGA) established for the purpose of protecting international investors' investments directly and indirectly from publicisation and other non- trade risks, is important to support investments that our companies investors around the world will make abroad, not only in its region. The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation, which is part of the World Bank group, was established on 12 April 1988, and aims to provide support for developing countries' economies to attract private investments and to increase direct foreign investments in these countries by guaranteeing guarantees against the political risks of investors. On April 27, 1988, the country approved the MiGA Foundation Convention and joined MIA (MIGA) under the Constitutional Law 88/13325, where the Convention for Multilateral Investment Guarantees was approved. MIA also includes development of new cross-border investments and existing projects, technical aid, management contracts, rental and license agreements. The ballot was approved on July 14, 2010 for the approval of the MIGA (MIA) by member states created within this scope. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have contributed to the rise in direct capital investments, which are clearly important to the development of our country and that it will be good for our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you, I salute you.
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0567par0740	Thank you, Mr. Önturk. There is a motion on the matter in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code. I read the motion: Substance 72. In accordance with the matter, we propose that negotiations continue. Reason: It is given to ensure that MPs have more information about the bill. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0568par0748	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2011-11-02sit08spe0567par0749	I will, Mr. Kokturk. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Ögüt, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Köse, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Horseman, Mr. Akar, Mr. Erdoğdu. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] [[Continue]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. In accordance with Article 72, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, as our working time is complete, it is Thursday (November 3rd 2011) at 14 p.m. to choose for a free membership in the Radio and Television Supreme Council and to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with legislation and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
