tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've got enough meetings, we're going to talk. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement is from Kütahya MP Hasan Fehmi Kinay, who wants to talk about the government's work and measures due to the earthquake in the district of Simav, Kütahya Province. Here you go, Mr. Kinay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0002par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment on 19 May 2011 to inform the General Assembly on the assistance and investments taken in our districts of Simav, Hisarcık, Shaphane and Markets, due to a 5.9-sized earthquake in central Kütahya Simav district. I hereby pay my respects to all of you. I wish that the 24th Legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly would bring blessings to our country and nation. Of course, our country is a disaster zone. As you know today, there has been another disaster in our provinces of Antalya, Denizli, Manisa and Balıkesir, with four deaths and six casualties. May God have mercy on those who died on this occasion, and my condolences on their families. At the beginning of my speech, I ask for God's mercy to the honorable mothers of our Prime Minister, and ask them for patience. Our mothers and fathers are our most precious possessions. Each child lives knowing that a mother's heart, full of pure emotions, is behind her for the rest of her life. The death of a mother is a sign that life is suddenly unresolved. This void, unfortunately, cannot be filled, and the death of every mother, with great pain, has surely twisted the human heart for the rest of his life. I ask for God's mercy to all of our relatives who have come to the Hereafter on this occasion. Dear MPs, I would like to point out that the work carried out by the Simav earthquake continues in accordance with the instructions and intense interest of our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself. Every day, we are in constant contact with NGOs in the region, with our mayors, and we follow with great care and care all the work conducted by both the local governments and our relevant ministries, our institutions. The earthquake occurred on May 19th at approximately 11:15 p.m. We arrived at the site at that time. In a few hours, our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Professor Veysel Eroglu, has arrived in the area. Within a few hours, the coordination centre was established in Simav, along with our concerned institutions and institutions, our governor, our mayor, and our mayors, and began a busy work pace. Of course, in these studies, our security forces, our garrison command, all the factors needed at that moment were activated. At the same time, the tenting process began. In the morning hours, the earthquake victims were served hot soup. This was an important achievement in Turkey, especially in the past, showing that our government had learned from all its institutions and institutions, especially after such serious problems with Sakarya, Adapazari, Kopeli and Düzce earthquakes. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Cemil Cicek has arrived at the disaster site. The very next day, our government issued a decision from the Council of Ministers that included disaster in the region. This was the most important development that allowed us to conduct the work at great speed and not to encounter the resource problem. Of course, studies on the region gained a great deal of speed by our Prime Minister coming to Simav (himself) on July 3rd, and by visiting our Sundays, Şaphane counties, and by giving instructions to the concerned immediately there. Therefore, on behalf of the people of Kütahya, I express our gratitude and gratitude once again. Dear friends, the earthquake has caused serious problems in a small district like Simav, in our region of about 100,000 populations. Of course, there are important steps that need to be taken from here, especially about the solution to these problems that we want to bring up. In the first place, there is a need for a change in the Law of Disaster. On the other hand, because of the earthquake, of course, tourism investments in the region have led to the economic activities of this region... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0003par0027	I'm sorry, we're not giving them time. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0002par0029	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0003par0031	Dear MPs, the second non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Alim Izwar, who wants to talk about the victims caused by the earthquake in Simav district of Kütahya Province. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise on 19 May 2011 on the victims of a 5.9-tight Simav earthquake that has also affected the districts of Simav, Simav, Simav, and Sundays. On this occasion, I wish you all the blessings of the 24th century of our House. From the time of the earthquake, I also owe a separate thank-you to all public institutions and organizations, NGOs and citizens, especially the Turkish Red Cross, who have not denied any support in the earthquake zone so far. Simav's earthquake, as it is known, has become a subject of political polemics prior to the June 12, 2011 general elections, and the only word or word that remains from Mr. Prime Minister's visit to the district after the earthquake has become the polemic that the Republican People's Party MPs who have not sworn for that day will lick their spit. Our citizens were waiting that day for a speech that looked for a cure for their own problems. According to the report by Simav Emergency Management Centre on 29 May 2011, 54% of the buildings have been found to be light, medium, or heavy damaged buildings, according to the report issued by Simav Emergency Management Centre following the earthquake. So this earthquake has become history as an earthquake, where more than half of the buildings in the district are virtually inadmissible. Sadly, though, some of the authorities today realize that they have made a huge mistake by ignoring this earthquake and underestimating it. In a nutshell, a large portion of the buildings in the district had to be rebuilt or strengthened today due to fatigue from the other earthquake that occurred on February 17, 2009. According to the latest report on September 22, 2011, all the buildings of the 12 neighborhoods in the district were visited as a result of the study of the Kütahya County Disaster and Emergency Directorate's protocol with Pamukkale University, and according to the report, 1,208 apartments or shops were heavily damaged, 908 apartments or shops were also partially damaged. With this report, citizens whose buildings have been damaged and have been severely damaged are now unaware of what they're going to do and are confused. The earthquake has led to a very serious migration in the district. Thousands of our citizens have left the county today and have gone elsewhere. Again, the city's infrastructure has completely collapsed, and to that end, Simav's request for financial assistance from the prime minister and relevant ministries has failed. Like the buildings of the county, the economy collapsed, and our tradesmen and artists, unfortunately, can't do business today, and many of them have shut down their shops. However, there are also people who have transformed the earthquake into an opportunity by building the government's territory and some individuals' land. Since 2008, it has continued to be difficult, its 192-delayed dwellings have been delivered to citizens with an earthquake opportunity, despite many lack of 192 dwellings and faulty manufacturing, but today many of the citizens have been unable to stay in these homes. The earthquake has been determined that citizens whose buildings have been damaged by the prime minister's term "effective to general life" will be considered a disaster, but it has not been carried out in any way. The Finance Ministry postponed taxes until November 1, 2011, but what happens after November 1st is uncertain. These people are going to pay taxes double, interest, and in what time they're going to spread it to other months, it's uncertain, and the citizen is very troubled. Many farmers are currently on the run or are on the run because farmers' debt to farm loans can't be paid. The records of the appointment of our young ones as teachers by the District National Education Directorate have been unrequited, and these young people are unemployed today. Education in the county... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm probably out of time. Thank you very much. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0005par0052	I'm sorry, Mr. Alim. Thank you very much. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Antalya MP Arif Bulut, who asked for a comment on the flood that occurred in Antalya Province. Here you go, Mr. Cloud. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0006par0059	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. On Sunday (October 9th), between 10:00 p.m. and 24 p.m., Antalya Ili Serik district of Gebiz province fell 300 kilograms of rain in the mountain region of Gebiz, causing a severe disaster due to the flooding of Küçükaksu Tea. On Monday (October 10th), Mr. Deniz Baykal, Mr. Osman Captain, Mr. Gürkut Acar, Mr. Yüldıy Sapan and I immediately arrived in the area. The sight we saw was terrible. At the edge of this tea, six of our citizens were lost in the Pinargiru district of Hasylören village, along with their homes. Search and rescue has continued until dark, but our missing citizens have been unreachable. The flood has completely destroyed 10 houses, 20 homes are badly damaged, 50 homes have minor damage. The village school, the village mansion, and the chief building are heavily damaged. All four bridges found on Smallaksu Tea have been ripped apart by the flood and completely destroyed. The area is unreachable by land. The search and rescue teams in the area have been able to access the area through helicopters. Since gebiz and Abdurrahmans are in the disaster zone of the city and the main water supply arteries are completely destroyed, serious drinking water shortages have arisen. Electricity and telephone lines have been severely destroyed. The disaster zone is also the village of the district school. School's ruined, education's stopped. After the merger of Little Aksu Tea with Aksu Tea, a larger flood broke out, Aksu district -- which is one of the districts of the capital city -- and more than 45,000 acres were flooded in Serik Plains. About 5,000 decares of this are greenhouse-covered land. The garden of pomegranates and citruses has been devastated. The fields of cotton and corn, which have come at harvest time, are underwater. 14 villages in the Gebiz region are unusable. Some villages are still unreachable. The plains of Aksu and Abdurrahman are under the waters of the flood. Over the past few years, the number of disasters in the region has caused severe trauma - loss of life and serious financial loss. A year ago in the same area, there were fatalities and massive financial damage due to a hailing disaster and flood-related disaster. It is one of the main tasks of the state to ensure the safety of our citizens, complete education and health care, to bring infrastructure services such as roads, water, electricity to the region. Therefore, the government must immediately take the area into the disaster zone and first make every means necessary for our missing citizens to be found and ensure that our citizens are found without delay. After doing a very serious damage detection study, he must compensate the loss of our citizens who have suffered damage, material and spiritual trauma, and heal their wounds as soon as possible. Forwardly, it should also solve infrastructure problems that prevent extreme loss of life and property due to natural disasters. According to recent reports from the region, the funeral of two of our citizens has been reached, but no identification has been made. I ask God's mercy for our lost citizens and his family's condolences and patience. I also ask God's mercy and his condolences and patience for those of our citizens who lost their lives in the great rains and floods that occurred in Denizli and Manisa. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0007par0071	Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. Eight of our friends wanted a word before we went on the agenda. Now, in extraordinary situations, it is very short, it says, but when we give it to so many friends, you appreciate that this requires a separate working time. For example, Mr. Acar asked for a word. What was it about?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0008par0074	I'm going to talk to you about the flood in Antalya, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0007par0075	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0008par0078	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Antalya is a streaming paradise in the Toros Mountains, with water flowing through the plains of Antalya. However, these streams flow in the abundance of the rain, causing loss of lives and possessions. In the 1977s, because of these extremities, the river in Kumluca, called "Gavur Creek," has been reformed by the CHP's rule and has been prevented from extremism for many years. However, ever since those years, we have suffered constant loss of life because sufficient reforms have been neglected in the streams. Three of our citizens died in the same area last year. The Abdurrahmans are almost completely covered by water because of the two-metre difference in jeans during the divided road construction of the highways north of Aksu Tea. The road between Antalya-Aksu-Serik has not been co-ordinated in the process of planning and setting up high structures such as bridges, vents. That's why nature became a disaster. Aksu Tea has to be reformed and to work together in road, bridge work, the General Directorate of State Water Affairs and Highways. Therefore, it is imperative that the region be planned according to the city's climate, according to the precipitation regime.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0009par0084	Thank you. Off the agenda or 60, I believe, Mr. Reşat Right...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0010par0086	It's about the earthquake, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0009par0087	About the earthquake...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0011par0088	Mr. President, our Istanbul MP has asked for word on the Simav earthquake.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0009par0089	Here's your seat for a minute.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0012par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country is in an earthquake belt. There have been earthquakes in our country at various times. We must learn important lessons from earthquakes and experience them. The province of Tokat, where I am a MP, is in an important earthquake belt, such as the North Anatolian fault line. Without the earthquake, the earthquake measures should be taken without compromise, followed by the state. The construction technique must be followed, the strength of existing buildings must be increased, the earthquake insurance must be made by everyone. He also thinks it's very important that citizens be informed about the earthquake, Mr. President, thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0013par0095	Thank you, Mr. Right. Our dear friends, Mr. Eyidoğan, according to 60...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0014par0098	Thank you. This earthquake is 5.7 and has done more damage than expected. This is very common in our country. According to the reports of the MTA, the earthquake was on a fault in the north of Simav, which we call the Nasha fault. According to other seismological data, this fault zone, which is 5km wide, is also capable of creating an earthquake the size of 6-6.5. However, with the decision made by the TOKI presidency, the new dwellings to be built on this new fault zone in the northern part of Simav. We do not know if the TOKI (TİKI) has done any research on this subject. The Nasha fault is as effective as the Simav fault, and today earthquake scientists argue that the last earthquake was not on the Simav fault, but on the Nasha fault. For your information.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0015par0101	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Akar, what are you going to talk about?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0016par0103	I wanted to talk to you about the earthquake.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0015par0104	Here, just a minute, from your position.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0016par0106	Friends, as a friend of yours who had experienced the earthquake... friends have just explained what had been done in Simav, but there are buildings still not being used, still waiting to be destroyed, and no action is being done about 11 years later. Again, there are permanent businesses available in Kopeeli, which are being used as ruins today, and there is no solution for them yet. Nearly 11 years later, a nail was not nailed down after that period, and it continues not to crash. And they've turned into a mess. For your information.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0015par0108	Thank you. My dear friends, now, Mr. Kinay and Mr. Light have asked for a word. Since they both just spoke for five minutes, if they'll excuse me, I'd like to move on to the next friends.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0017par0110	We were going to finish what was missing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0015par0111	Next time. Mr. Straight, it's about the earthquake, please, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0018par0114	Mr. President, you know the best way to avoid natural disasters is to take precautions in advance. I demand that the government, known as the Kelkit Basin in Tokat, where I am a MP, make the effort to take measures related to the earthquake in Erbaa, Niksar and Reshadiye, in the middle of the Northeast Anatolian fault, where we have three important counties. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0015par0116	Thank you. Mr. Nebati.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0019par0118	Sir, I give up.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0015par0119	Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0020par0121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also made a promise that there was a flood in many cities and surrounding our country, particularly Antalya. Dear lawmakers, I ask the great God of the National Movement Party for our citizens who have lost their lives in this real disaster in the village of Antalya Hassılören, my condolences to their families, to their friends. I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you of something. There has been pain, six of our citizens are missing, four of them have been pronounced dead, and that will be discussed today in the General Assembly, but unfortunately not one minister of power sits in the opposite ranks. When will they be here? I mean, is it okay if there's a time when people's problems are being discussed in disaster, when they're not in charge and responsible on a floor? We, the National Movement Party Group, demand that these measures be taken care of and taken. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0021par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0022par0128	Mr. President, thank you. We also want to express our sensitivity as the AK PARTY Group regarding the flood in Antalya. Today, our friend, the Antalya MP, is a member of parliament in areas that have suffered a flood, where we are both able to address the problems of our citizens and examine them in their place. But since today's Council of Ministers began at 2:30 p.m., our Minister would answer verbal questions, off-the-tops talks. In a moment, according to the information we have received from the Minister, the Minister is here, the future; hopefully he will try to inform you of the issues on the agenda and off the agenda if he finds the opportunity. You know, Monday was the day of the Council of Ministers meeting, but with the death of our Prime Minister's mothers, we were only able to hold this meeting today. In that sense, that's why we don't have friends in the ranks of the Council of Ministers. Hopefully soon, Mr. Energy Minister has expressed himself, the Minister will be here.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0021par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Acar, you've met before. Do you want to say something again?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0023par0132	Sir, I've only got two sentences left. If you'll be so kind...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0024par0133	No, sir, no additions, Mr. President. Once...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0021par0134	We don't have that kind of procedure, but here you go, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0025par0136	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0026par0137	Mr. President, you're making this a procedure.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0025par0138	Dear friends, I'm finishing, please. I just want to say this.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0026par0139	Mr. President, you're making it proper, sir. Look, I have to...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0025par0140	It was the missing part, sir. We believe that power does not care for Antalya.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0026par0142	Mr. President, as an exception, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0143	You're right, sir, you're right. It's over, and there's no more.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0025par0144	A planning and investment effort must be launched immediately to protect 70 per cent of Turkey's sub-casual production from the personal safety and flood disaster of the Antalya village, which produces most of its narcissistic production. Despite these warnings, if necessary, the plague of those who die from the flood will remain above the ruling party. We're waiting for these studies. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0146	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0028par0148	Mr. President, if I may, I'd like to make one thing clear. Our Honorable Congressman has just spoken because you gave him another time because he didn't have enough time, but that time has been limited to a minute, and I think you've given it as an exception, in order to get it on the record, otherwise it'll be a procedure, and we won't be able to prevent it from happening. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0150	You're right. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we move to the agenda. Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, wanted to answer questions at the top of the agenda: 1, 35, 36, 48, 49, 51, 52, 54, 61, 79, 88, 90, 105, 108, and 109. The Minister's request will be met when it's his turn. Dear MPs, the President has presentations to the General Assembly, I present. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter and the Interior Charter to determine all of its problems from the production of the apricot, which contributes to serious contributions to the region and the country's economy, until it is marketed. 1) Mahmoud Mujahit Nuts [[Malatya]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Kars]] 4) Stopped Mehmet Kastal [[Osmaniye]] [[Amasya]] [[Ankara]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hatay]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Samsun]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Yozgat]] [[Silver House]] [[Elizipt]] 16) Fatma Salman Kotan [[Pain]] 17) Mehmet Süleyman Hamzaoğlu [[Diyarbakır]] [[Ankara]] 19) Ali Reza Alaboyun [[Aksaray]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Hatay]] Apricot is a very important economic value for the province of Malatya and its region. The livelihood of 80% of Malatya's people is directly or indirectly absorption. The province of Malatya and its apricot -- an important economic value for the people of the region -- also have significant income potential for our country's economy. For various reasons, however, this important product has not been evaluated enough so far, and has not been created at the desired level of the region's people and the country's economy. Because it's not enough to improve quality in apricot breeding. These studies need to be increased and continued, and to do so, scientific research on apricots must be conducted. Apricots such as white freckles, larvae, are ineffective. In order to address this problem, it is imperative that we work together with the universities. The harvest of its Apricot's traditional methods is causing significant damage to the product, which poses a major problem for our exports. For this reason, scientific studies must be given speed to find a different method for the apricot harvest. The production and awareness of producers are insufficient, such as apricot breeding, absorption, sulfurization, and storage. Apricot producer must be provided with support for his expenditures, such as fertilizer, pesticides, before harvesting. The manufacturer is afraid of the price instability of his apricot, and this extra sulfurous product is causing problems in exports to the countries of the European Union. Apricot's advertising and publicity in national and international media is not serious. The sale of the apricot as an age is not given enough importance and weight. Like the age apricot, the apricot core is not the level to be considered as a shell and an inner shell. Apricots are not being wrapped up in international standards, which poses a major obstacle to exporting the apricot. In parallel with the growing trend of natural products around the world, the curvature of the apricot must be removed from the natural environment, without chemical processing, and the scientific work needed to be done for it. Apricots (such as concerre, jam, marmalade, sugar and juice) are limited to national and international markets. Restitution support required to increase exports is not provided for apricot products. Apricot product may have significant export potential, which can contribute to both the region's people and the country's economy, while all these problems and inadequacies cannot be evaluated enough. For the reasons we count above, this parliamentary research motion has been drafted to determine the urgent measures needed for the evaluation of the apricot in a more efficient and efficient way for both the region and the country's economy, and to address the problems by our Parliament. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems and solutions of our country's fishing, we propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Article 104th and 105th Articles of our Constitution and Article 105th. [[İzmir]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Kars]] [[Çanakkale]] 5) Stopped Mehmet Kastal [[Osmaniye]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Amasya]] [[Ankara]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hatay]] [[Samsun]] [[Yozgat]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Silver House]] [[Elizipt]] [[Sinop]] 18) Fatma Salman Kotan [[Pain]] 19) Mehmet Süleyman Hamzaoğlu [[Diyarbakır]] [[Ankara]] 21) Ali Reza Alaboyun [[Aksaray]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Hatay]] Our country, surrounded by three seas, is a land of the sea. Although our country has an 8.333km shoreline, it remains in the rankings of countries that produce world water products, although it has the best conditions for producing water products, including 177,714km streams, large and small 200 natural lakes, 243 dam lakes, 750 watering ponds, and a total of 1,193 sources and very rich species of fish and water products. Our total production of fish, including hunting and breeding, is 650,000 tonnes/years in our country, which owns water products in 26 million hectares. Britain, Sweden, Norway, Germany, Germany and Italy, especially Japan in the world, are very important to fish and enter their economies with their modern fleets. In our country, they are amateurs and coastal fishermen. It is only because our country is far from the open seas that there is no coastal fishing and no open sea fishing. Water products production areas are almost close to agricultural areas, but the water products industry's share of GDP is 43 per cent, while its share of agriculture is 2.34 per cent. Beyond this imbalance, there are reasons for our country's lack of a national fishing policy and planning, such as unconscious hunting, contamination, and the delay of past governments to detect ecological change. Turkey's obligations to harmonise EU fishing legislation during the European Union's negotiation process were introduced through the Joint Partnership Document, which was announced in 2003. In this context, harmonisation of Turkish legislation on fishing management, control, marketing and structural sleep has been considered a priority in the short term. In the mid-term, restructuring and strengthening the institutional capacity of the fishing administration; harmonising EU legislation for fishing management, control, marketing and structural harmonisation; a computer fishing boat registration system in line with EU legislation has been targeted. As part of the project, necessary arrangements will be made for legal and structural policies, protection, control and resource management, market organisation and water products information system. In order for this project to become operational, our Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs will provide the establishment of the Water Products General Directorate or a similar structure, which will allow fisheries in our country to become more institutional. On the other hand, fish farming is a very profitable business when compared with the product produced by other animal species. For example, when one kilo of beef can be obtained from seven kilograms of food, one kilo of chicken from two kilograms of food, one kilo of fish from 1.7 kg of bait, and the number of animals that can be stored in each square metre of breeding ground will also be evident. Although it is cheap in our country, fish consumption per person is 7-8 kg, while about 50 kg in Japan. In EU countries consumption is 30 kg/years. On the other hand, it's the only product that we can export to the European Union in terms of animal products, and this total culture is 35% of the production produced by fishing. Proteins for human beings provide raw materials for industry, as well as about 250,000 families for fishing activities. In addition, when the population of the water products industry is included in the sub-industrial and marketing channels, the problems of the fishing sector will be resolved, it will have the potential to create an important job for our coastal provinces and for our country. Given all these developments, it would be appropriate to open parliamentary research to determine the problems and solutions of our country's fishing. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of researching problems in the production and marketing of honey and other bee products, the Constitution is 98, in order to determine the effective and efficient assessment of bee presence and beekeeping potential in our country, the measures needed to improve the quality and diversity of products and to improve its economic value. And of TBMM's Introduction 104. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Bitlis]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Ankara]] [[Kars]] [[Bayburt]] [[Amasya]] [[Diyarbakır]] 8) Stopped Mehmet Kastal [[Osmaniye]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Samsun]] [[Hatay]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Silver House]] [[Elizipt]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Sinop]] [[Yozgat]] 19) Fatma Salman Kotan [[Pain]] 20) Mehmet Süleyman Hamzaoğlu [[Diyarbakır]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Ali Reza Alaboyun [[Aksaray]] [[Hatay]] [[Slap]] When examined cave paintings and fossils of the year 7,000 B.C.E., humans were found to be involved in beekeeping activities at that time. So old in the history of the world, beekeeping is also based on a long history in Asia Minor. Honey is one of Asia Minor's ancient known nutrients. Some inscriptions dating back to 1300 BC in Bosphorus, the capital of the Hitites, show that beekeeping is also important in the former Anatolian cultures. In our country, the mention of the word honey in the names of some settlements may be another clear explanation for the history of honey and honey in our land. Our country is a very lucky country for beekeeping, such as broad fluorescent fields, seasonal blooms, topographical structures, honey-efficient wildflowers, industrial plants, acacia, chestnuts, lime, redwood forests. Although our beekeeping has significant potential as far as it's concerned, this potential is not exactly being used. There are hives in every part of our country. These hives also produce various flavors of honey. In Eastern Anatolia, Bitlis, Erzurum, Kars; Shemdinli in Southeast Anatolia; Ankara in Central Anatolia; Anzer Yayla in the Black Sea; and parts of the Aegean region show the diversity and frequency of honey production in our country. For this dense frequency to be presented in a functional and useful form of expression, a number of layers of information and experience must be placed in the common denominator. Because an ignorant and inexperienced sense of production does not bring profit, but harm. On the other hand, poor and even fake honey production demonstrates the importance of the control mechanism being operational. In this respect, serious sanctions are essential at the point of combating fake honey. Some European-based innovations over the last 200 years have allowed beekeeping to be done with more science and improved methods. However, these discoveries, which are of close interest to our country of great wealth, are thought to be happening in Europe, where the gene center is the Middle East, where there is no production. However, with its coordinates between the Middle East and Europe, our country is in a position to create rich production and production in good health. When the quantity and quality of production is adopted, our country, which is on the eve of entering the European Union, should consider Europe's need for honey, which is 200,000 tons annually, and increase the production of 35,000 tonnes rapidly. In this regard, it is imperative that we study well the problems of beekeeping, which is the world's second in terms of colonial existence, but is the fourth in terms of honey production, the livelihood of more than 150,000 families. Scientific resources and scientific institutions with knowledge will improve production, while standards and marketing strategies will enrich our country's gains. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, now the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and processed and submit to your votes. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Tuesday (11/10/2011). The 12th Amendment proposal, published and printed on the list of incoming papers, shall be adopted into the order 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6th place of the drafts of the Law, which are on the agenda after 48 hours of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Jobs from the Commission, and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this order. The General Assembly's 11/10/2011 Joint on Tuesday (11/10/2011); the discussion of other audit issues after an hour's discussion of verbal question proposals and other jobs from Commissions, which are not discussed on the agenda, It's recommended. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0029par0353	Mr. President, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0354	I've voted, please.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0029par0355	Sir?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0356	...accepted.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0029par0357	How is it accepted? Mr. President, did you ask if anyone wanted a word?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0358	It's pretty accepted. I've taken a vote, so please take your seat. Yes, go ahead, please.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0029par0360	Ask anyone who wants a word. You can't just cover it all up, honey. You just got there yesterday. Run the Coven properly.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0362	Please sit down, please sit down. Mr. Young, look...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0029par0364	No, sir, we have the right to discuss the Council decision, so why attack today?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0365	Mr. Young, hold on a second. Your friends heard it, I said those in favor of the vote. Next time.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0029par0367	So you agreed... I want word before him, you didn't hear. You don't hear it when it comes to your account.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0368	You're welcome. Go ahead... you're a man who knows that, please.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0029par0369	That's no way to run Parliament. If you ignore things that don't come into your account, you can't be Speaker of Parliament here.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0027par0370	We'll ask you next time. The MPs, Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, have asked to answer questions in the part of the agenda, including 1, 35, 36, 48, 49, 51, 52, 54, 61, 79, 88, 90, 105, 108 and 109. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of the Interior İdris Naim Şahin. 11.7.2011 The drinking water network used by our citizens in Balçeshme village in Ardahan Lake district has collapsed. Because of this situation, our countrymen do not drink healthy water. This situation must be corrected and the needs of our countrymen must be met. 1- Ardahan Gölete district of Balçeshme village has collapsed in a warehouse connected to the drinking water network used by our citizens. Do you have any work to do for the warehouse as soon as possible? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Food. 18.7.2011 The meat combination, which is eight in our country, is of great importance to be reconstructed and strengthened in all the cities where animalism is dense. The need for meat combinations continues to eat healthy and cheap meat. The state's defining role in the meat and milk market will greatly prevent instability. 1-The eight meat combinations found in our country cannot answer the need. Will the Kars Meat combination be opened, especially in Eastern Anatolia, where the animalism is being done? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Food. 18.7.2011 One of the world's oldest professions, veterinary medicine, unfortunately, is not well understood in less developed countries and our country. In developed countries, the profession of veterinary medicine is considered scientific and social. 1 - Today's disease from animals to humans is rapidly increasing. What measures do you take to prevent that? 2- If importing live animals and meat becomes inevitable, what are the reasons for the importation of sacrifice? 3- What are the underlying reasons for reducing the number of people who want to do livestock, and what measures are being taken to correct them? 4- Do you have any work to make the veterinary profession count? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following question be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food Agriculture and Petting. Dr. Reşat Right Question: Hashish planting is limited across the country. Although the land structure of the slap is available for poppy crops as a province, few farmers can and will be able to plant and benefit. Will you increase the field of planting in the province of Tokat as an alternative product? How much hashish is produced in Turkey and the province of Tokat? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question will be answered verbally by Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food Agriculture and Petting. Dr. Reşat Right Question: Are there studies of environmentally friendly production systems in our country in water products breeding? It is reported in the press that coastal fish farms are polluting the environment, corrupting the natural structure. In 2010, how many production facilities have been checked, how many businesses have been warned about this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question will be answered verbally by Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food Agriculture and Petting. Dr. Reşat Right The question is, what are the cost of sea surface rent in our country's water products production? Compared to neighbouring countries, what is our status as a country? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question will be answered verbally by Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food Agriculture and Petting. Dr. Reşat Right Question: The need for protein throughout the world is increasing day by day. How many water products were produced and produced in 2010 in our water supply and marine rich country. As a ministry, water products are state policy. How much is the incentive? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit to the following questions that should be answered verbally by the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 16.8.2011 Many of our citizens who live in Eastern Anatolia provide their livelihood by farming and animalism. We've been saying for years that animal health needs to be taken care of. Sadly, temporary measures cannot be taken and prevented. That's why a lot of animals are dying. This leads to the financial loss of our countrymen. In that case, our fellow countrymen in Ardahan have ceased to be animals. 1-There are financial losses to our fellow animals who are animalists because they have not been prevented from being attacked in Ardahan. What measures will you take to prevent this disease once and for all? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Food. 28.7.2011 Ardahan is one of the main cities of animalism and organic agriculture, one of the rare and unique cities in our country for animalry, water resources and organic agriculture. In our area, mera problems have become chronic. Ardahan (Ardahan) has many great virtues. Mera are secretly subletted. 1- In Ardahan, there are villages that have been at odds with each other for years, while the mera problem is most likely to hit Hochivan. Will the rental system, especially the Hochivan, take into account the problems of the mera in Ardahan, in regard to the farmers and those who farm in this area? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Food. 22.7.2011 The AOC has been found to be incompatible with the purposes stated in the will letter of Ataturk. The AOC Directorate has not been made in line with its income, nor has it been used at a very low price of rent. Some tenants' rents are well below the cost of the day. One problem is that the tenants are constantly expanding open and closed spaces. 1 - What are the number of dwellings rented by the ACOC? There is a big difference between the same value of rent and the rental place of employment in AOCH, which is located near the AOCH. What made that difference? How many years do the rentals in 3-ACOC are held, and how many years have the most tenants lived there? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Food. 21.7.2011 The only livelihood of our countrymen in Van Gürpınar district is agriculture and livestock. In addition to being hospitalized for eating anthrax meat, many of our citizens have suffered from anthrax disease in the district, their animals are dying. 1- What measures will be taken to prevent anthrax disease in Van Gürpınar district to prevent immediate measures and to ensure that our citizens are not harmed and that our citizens' animals are not destroyed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 21.7.2011 Although there are no land problems in our country, all public companies in Turkey, especially in large cities, serve in rental buildings. Public buildings can be built by the creation of new and more suitable service buildings with annual costs paid for rental buildings. 1- How many state-owned subsidiaries live all over the country? 2- What's the total cost of building rent for public enterprises? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I wish to assure you that my following question will be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Dr. Reşat Right Question: Do you have any work on the benefits of pensioners from bank promotions given to officers and workers? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Food. 24. 8. 2011 Ardahan has an average of between 250,000 and 300,000 cattle in Ardahan, while changing for years and seasons. Not the first time in 81 provinces, the province has become a quarantined province due to the fact that it's not the first time it's been in the state. On average, between 50,000 and 80,000 cattle are known to be transported out of the province. Without the necessary measures against this disease, livestock will cease in Ardahan, which will trigger unemployment and migration. 1- After days of quarantine in Ardahan, the meat cuts continue, are they being inspected or slaughtered, animals under control, or who's doing the inspection? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Food. 24. 8. 2011 Ardahan has 550 members of the beekeeping unit and 45,000 hives. Last year, Ardahan produced 800 tons of honey. This year, however, honey yields have been significantly reduced due to the heavy rain. By depositing large sums of money, long struggles will extinguish the hives full of bees. This will trigger a new wave of unemployment and migration in Ardahan. One-Ardahan beekeepers, especially beekeepers, will the manufacturers of beekeeping be given 15kg of sugar per hive to keep their hives intact? 2- Will our beekeeper manufacturers' loans to banks be postponed by a year, will they be able to make a new configuration? To answer these questions, Mr. Mehdi Eker, our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 35 minutes. Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you all. First, in the last few days, I would like to offer my best wishes to all of our nation, including Antalya, Denizli, Manisa, the Aegean, the Marmara, the floods, the floods, the floods, the tornados, of course, that have occurred in some of our Mediterranean provinces. We have six fatalities in Antalya. Three of these have been recovered, and two have been identified in the village of Hasyrilören in Serik County, and one has not yet been identified. I ask for God's mercy and my condolences to their families, to our nation. We have another missing citizen in Denizli. We also have two missing citizens in our Manisa province. Of course, the search is ongoing. In these disaster areas, all the public institutions and institutions necessary for the co-ordination of our governors, all the relevant agencies, are currently doing their duty. The rescue efforts that can be done within a short period of time need to be met with the most urgent needs of our citizens, and damage assessments are now being done on a mid-term basis. Our Prime Minister's Office of Emergency has requested $1 million in cash from our province of Antalya, and this has been sent to our Governorate of Antalya. And a few hours ago, there was another cash request from our Mugla province for around $500,000, and he's being met. The demands for our other provinces are of course being evaluated. Of course, it's a natural disaster. I was just watching the session here, and there were noises again. A lot of rain just happened in Ankara, and there were voices. Of course, there are damage to my ministry, especially in the areas of agriculture, greenhouse areas, and open-growing vegetables and fruit, and they're being identified. We, of course, have found so far in Serik, Aksu and Manavgat districts of Antalya in particular; in 10 villages, 300 farmers, 3,700 squares of open space; in 16 villages in Aksu district, 950 farmers, 40,000 dekar open spaces; in Manavgat district, some small animals and stored goods were first determined to be damaged. It's about these things, of course, that, after final assessments are made in the coming period, as far as the law allows, with the resources of our government, with the resources of our state, with the injuries of our citizens in this regard. Again, the flood took place yesterday in Denizli Province, Çameli district of Ceta, and in four villages, it has been determined that fish growers, in particular, have suffered 500 per cent agricultural damage. Again, there have been losses of cattle and cattle, exhale. In the village of Nienoba in Manisa Akakhar, it was determined that about 2,000 to 3,000 olive trees had been removed from the ground, and had been damaged. A tunnel has also been detected in the Gördes Rocky region. Now, these are, of course, our initial findings regarding the Department of Agriculture, but there have certainly been problems in the departments, in the sectors that are responsible for our other ministries, other relevant units. Damage assessments of both our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, related to our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, and all other ministries of transport and so on, are being made, and studies are being done about them. I hereby offer my condolences to our nation and wish that God would never see such natural disasters again. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the important reasons why I'm here today is that I need to answer the verbal question motions that have been submitted to me. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. Mr. İdris Naim Şahin is asking our Minister of Interior, Mr. İdris Naim Sahin. This is the first question. I'd like to answer it from the beginning, if I may. In response to the question of the water problem in Balçeshme village of Gölee district, Mr. Ensar Öğüpüt, the answer is this: An examination of the Governorate in the village of Balçeşme district of Ardahan province of Balçeşme in the village of Ardahan is the answer prepared by our Ministry of Internal Affairs, where there is no alleged issue, where the pool of water is sound and there is no problem in drinking water in the village of Ardahan. I'd like to bring this to your attention. I will answer these questions as follows, as well as the subtitles of Mr. Ensar Öğün, 6/42, 6/67, 6/86, 6/95, 6/117, 6/118 and 6/118 because they are close or similar. Regarding the question of whether or not Mr. Öğün....the Karsa meat combo will open: there are 10 meat combinations of Meat and Fish Corporation throughout Turkey. Five of these serve our regions of Ağrı, Bingol, Diyarbakır, Erzurum, Van, east and southeast. As you know, all of these were included in privatisation in the early 1990s, and the combination around 28 was privatized. In 2005, our government said that this practice was a misappropriation, and therefore in Turkey, the OSCEs of animalism were essentially, if it was to be privatised, we would take it out of the privatisation of the Meat and Fish Association combinations, linking them to our Food, Agriculture and Animalry Ministry, and we would invest a lot -- and we would re-open them, of course, in addition to the new ones. The Association of Meat and Fish already has 10 combinations, and together with 10 combinations, it provides a two-way service in Turkey to create a market for the slaughter of the animals produced by producers and to restore the balance of meat prices in the market, and it contributes very seriously to the sector. Currently, the Meat and Fish Association has no study of meat combinations in the Kars province, but in the coming months, years, if this work is to be done, it will also be assessed if a collection of Meat Fish Associations must be opened or leased. As you may know, there is a regulation regarding the question Mr. Öğümümün, about the diseases passed on to people from animals, regarding the mandatory animal disease and the notification of the report. There are not only problems with animals, but there are also factors that cause economic loss, which infect people, disease factors, bacteria, viruses, and so on, and so on. Other diseases, such as beef tuberculosis, beef brusella, sheep and goat brisella, bird flu, ruam disease, are also subject to compensation, so if they are found, they are subject to mandatory cuts, which are paid for. Why? Because the existence of these diseases, sustaining them, spreading them is a serious risk and a danger to public health, not just animals. Programs conducted by our ministry as part of the Project on the Control of Animal Diseases and Animal Actions are being carried out intensively and for the protection of both animal health and public health through immunization, clinic and laboratory study, abattoir control, serological and allergic tests. Projects such as the International Project on Control of Rabies Disease, Bird Flu and Human Influence Predation and Intervention Project are also sought to provide sustainable guarantees of animal and public health. In addition to Mr. Öğüm.'s question regarding animal imports, I would like to inform you that for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the World Animal Health Organization has provided a state of pure status for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey in May 2010. So there's a disease in animals that we know is very common and very contagious, and it's a disease that knows no bounds, so that hundreds of miles of this virus can be carried through the mud on the wheels of cars. So it's not possible to fight this alone, but it can be done with very strict measures in the island countries. Unfortunately, our neighbors have standards -- here, Georgia, Armenia, Iran, Azerbaijan, Iraq, Syria. So we started this eradication project from the west of Turkey, and by controlling the passage of the straits, for the first time in Turkey's history, we've made the Thracian region an apocalypse for the first time in its history. It's a very important step, a huge success. This is the first time in the history of the Republic, and the World Animal Health Organization, the World Health Organization, has recognized this status and has been certified in this part of Turkey. We've been holding this position, this status, for the past three years. So in three years, all of this, despite the circumstances of the victim's festivals and so on, we've taken precautions here that have led to the absence of chap disease, and so on and so forth. Now, dear friends, I'm not saying anything about our opposition parties using this as an opposition tool, but, of course, when we're talking about it here, especially when people who know about it need to speak with compassion and conscience, because we didn't import and import animal sacrifice in other parts of Turkey, and we only allow animals to import in Thrace because the transitions are under control, and so that our citizens in Thrace are not to experience any harm there, because the transitions from Anatolia are extremely limited and controlled, and because we don't want someone to exploit it and abnormally raise prices in the Tracia region. That's the essence, that's the essence. So that's what we did last year, and that's what we're doing this year. Why? So that our citizens of Thrace, especially on the European side of Istanbul, would not have a problem. Not for Anatolia. Now I'm going to give you a number. Dear friends, the number of victims that were sacrificed in 2010 across Turkey is around 590,000 cattle and around 2,200,000 small animals. They're identified, they've all got ear earrings, and they've got their destination, their destination, and so on. Currently, in Turkey, there is about a month or so before the Festival of Sacrifice, and the findings that we made in the nursery a month ago -- including ear earrings, including these -- 869 thousand cattle were prepared for sacrifice, and 3,200,000 small cattle were prepared for sacrifice again. So we have about a thousand cattle, about a million and a hundred thousand small animals. So more than we consumed last year, more than we did last year, we have animal presence throughout Turkey, prepared for sacrifice. Nothing's wrong. Here, in Thrace, we've made our findings in the Thrace -- we've done them again -- the point is that Edirne, Cırklareli, Tekirdağ, there are now 24,000 cattle, about 100,000 small head animals in these three provinces. Istanbul's European side also needs to sacrifice 41,000 small animals and 55,000 small animals, and we allow it to be imported from the world's non-shape countries only to be evaluated in that area, so that the consumer in Istanbul will not be harmed. This is also the right thing, not the wrong thing, it's the right thing, and we find it necessary to ensure that the fight against animal disease is more effective in Turkey. We need to continue this struggle, this control. We need to maintain the position of Thrace. Why? Because for Thrace, we think that since this place has won a pure status, it has gained vaccinated Aryan status, then we have to think of Thrace as an export base when we export to other countries of the world. So we're choosing it as an export base in a no-shape zone in Turkey, and we need to maintain that position. So, dear MPs, don't let anyone here judge this with cheap political debates.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0030par0506	Not cheap politics, Mr. Minister Kars and Ardahan have no animals left, but all the animals have died of it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0031par0507	Hijazi company, you know... GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER, SO...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0030par0509	What are you talking about? There are no animals left in the Kars-Ardahan area, and he died from the smack. I'll be there, I'll be there. Answer him. Just tell me how many animals died in Posof. I'll be there. You've purified Thrace. Isn't the other side Turkey? Dear friends, silly disease is an unrestricted disease. The fight against the hilt continues, and very effectively, it continues to be more effective than ever in the past of Turkey. Broken needles, broken needles, coming through.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0032par0516	Mr. Ensar... Look, it's not like that, it's not, you're wrong about him.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0030par0518	Here come the broken needles. You know him wrong, Mr. Ensar.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0032par0520	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Ensar, please do not interfere. You don't know it's for your own good, it's for your own good, it's for your own good, it's for your own good, it's for your own good.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0030par0523	It is, it is, it is. It's not like that. Look, this is my 33rd year at the Department of Agriculture, my 33rd year. Now we're out of animals! There I also did the General Directorate of Veterinary Affairs, as well as the Deputy Director General, as well as the Ministry, and the Specialist. They have to bring the sacrificial animal from the outside. I worked with 15 of the government's Minister of Agriculture before me, as a technical officer, as a general manager. I know exactly how much money each of them spends on these things, how many projects each of them does. Don't tell me that. I know what I'm doing, and I know what they're doing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0033par0530	Minister, isn't there another company besides Hijazi? Turkey has now traveled far in a very large area, and will then travel far. You make your reviews constructive, and I, above my head, apply them. What a waste of country money! But not with cheap stuff like that, not with cheap policies. That era of populism is over. It's not populism at all! People don't respect him anymore, and we already see his results in the election. Conspiracy to the tender. People don't give bonuses anymore. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That's a misdemeanor for a bid. Go ahead, people don't give bonuses to that population anymore. Mr. President, in regards to the question of Mr. Öğün....the reduction of those who want to practice livestock again, the share of animalism has been significantly increased in agricultural support under the importance of our government's animalism. Now, dear friends, when we arrived in 2002, the Turkish Ministry of Agriculture, the Government of the Republic of Turkey, supported animalism at $83m, total, all of it, all of it, 83 million, and the share of total agricultural support that day was 4.4 per cent, or 100 lira, if the state supports agriculture, only $4.4 lira. Now, I'm telling you, 2011: my total agricultural support was 6.5 billion, 1.8. We're giving you 6.5 billion. Among the total agricultural benefits, the share of livestock is 27 per cent, not 4.4 per cent, 27 per cent, and the figure is $1 billion 700 million. And as of today, it's just the beginning of October -- $1 billion, 350 million, that's the cash support I gave the farmer in Turkey, the manufacturer in livestock. I paid $1 billion, 350 million as of today. By the end of the year, it will reach $1 billion, 700 million. Now, if it wasn't important... now I'm going to give you a number, and I'm going to give it to your attention. Look, eight years ago in Turkey, do you know the number of businesses with over 50 head of cattle in it, the number of farms? 4.300.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0034par0546	Then how much did the meat weigh, how much is it today? Today we built a farm with 4,300 numbers, 24,000 new animals on top of it, and 20,000 more and more over 50 heads.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0035par0548	What's the total number? This was done during this period, during this period. So if you've made 4,300, then there's more investment in livestock in Turkey, Turkey is increasing in numbers as a farm quality, and we need to pay no attention to that. We've done special projects in both the eastern Anatolian region and the southeastern Anatolian region, both in the GAP provinces and DAP provinces. We brought in zero interest apps. Look, as of today, the interest-free loan used in just one year for livestock is $5 billion,300 million. 5 billion 300 million lira farmers in Turkey, 5 quadrillion friends with money, as you know it, that's not a small price. If we call it a billion, the quality of money is different, so we call it a billion. That's why, my dear friends, we've established the National Meat Council, the National Milk Council. Very serious measures have been taken for animalism to actually be done with a higher production standard. This will continue in 2012. Again, these projects are still related to animalism: artificial seeding, progeny stumps and gene stump work in cattle, fertility control activities, reforming small animalism, the development of breeding and feeding plants, the establishment of growers, manufacturers organisations, fighting animal disease, milk cattle cowering, co-opopoperative investments, providing animal gene resources and sustainability, and developing sheep and goat breeding. These, these projects are currently actively under these headings in the work of our Ministry. Now, in the last eight years, I've asked my valued lawmakers to keep this especially in mind: the number of cattle has increased by 16 percent, but there is a much more serious rise in culture. So low-profile races are being transformed into high-profile races. That was 19 percent -- total animals -- are now up to 38 to 39 percent, and there is a 16 percent increase in total assets. The increase in the number of animals of the culture race is 127 percent, friends, 127 percent. For him, there is a significant increase in both dairy efficiency and meat efficiency per animal. The average milk yield has increased by 67 percent, and there's a 40 percent increase in carcadas, which is the animal's meat -- meat efficiency. Of course, veterinary medicine is an important profession, such as all other professions, with serious contributions and services to humanity. In the last nine years, my government has recruited 5,000 vets. The last time the Department of Agriculture received 250 total staff in 1989, in '89; it hadn't been taken since; until our government arrived, and we took over 5,000 vets, we ran them.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0036par0554	How much do they pay? Mr. Ozkan, you know him best, you're a vet. 1,000 lira... 1,000 lira... Don't twist the numbers because I'm going to make a policy now. You're running it for $1,000. In his 12th chapter studies on harmonisation of EU legislation, the study of veterinary medicine and animal health is mainly being conducted. In particular, significant improvements have been made in both legislation and staff employment related to veterinary and veterinary practice. Important studies are being carried out in Ardahan, as well as in Ardahan, in the framework of regulations relating to the control of Shap Disease with Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Food Law. It's a virus that can be transferred, especially in the mud on the wheels of vehicles, especially in the border crossings -- as I just said. For him, regular examinations and reporting of animal transports are vital to both inoculations there and inoculations there. Twice a year, cattle are vaccinated, and small animals are now now in vaccine program once a year. With free vaccines, our animals are vaccinated, their immunity to silly diseases is strengthened. Now, friends, sometimes what happens is that you create a vaccine in your country, but a new virus in another part of the world can reach you and it can do you harm. We need to consider that, too. Mr. President, there are 137 tenants in total, including 84 official institutions and organisations of AOC, 53 registered private individuals and company tenants, regarding the question Mr. Öğüt. Öğüt. (ÇT/TK) Rental costs of rental spaces are on track and rent detection cases can be filed if they remain low. Rentals made by the AOC are available when rental spaces are free, and rentals can be tendered under Articles 100 and 101. The Ataturk Forest Farm is open to the control of both the High Control Board and the Parliamentary OCE Commission and everyone else, the account book, everything. Again, about Mr. Öğüt. Öğünür's question about the loss of animals due to anthrax in Van Gürpınar....is being effectively continued to combat anthrax disease, which is among the obligatory diseases. In places where the disease has been detected, measures are being taken to prevent the spread of the disease by performing quarantine, cleaning and disinfecting practices. Infected animals have been inoculated in disease places and animals in the last five years. The farmers in the infected areas are also informed about the disease in co-operation and co-ordination with the district health departments, the district health group heads. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are also concerned with Mr. Öğün....about the control of the cattle cut in Ardahan.. Pre-cut and post-cut examinations of animals to be slaughtered in slaughterhouses by our ministry are conducted by official vets, and meats that are suitable for consumption are being introduced as a result of pre-cutting and post-existing examinations, disposable meats are being destroyed as a result of inspection. And the question about the victimization of the beekeepers in Ardahan is... It's the first time we've supported beekeeping, it's started in 2003, our government, and it's going on so far. So far, we've paid 130 million liras, 130 trillion liras for beekeeping. In 2010, 312 producers, a member of the Bee Growers Union in Ardahan province, were paid a total of 152,000 lira to the owner of the 25,369 active colony. According to the casing assessments for support payments to unit members beekeepers in 2011, their rights are currently under way at the Ministry's county, county administrations, which will be finished by the end of November. In 2002, Ardahan had 18,777 new hives, while in 2010 the number of new hives reached 67,909 in Ardahan. Now, in Ardahan, if the number of hives has increased from 18,000 to 67,900, this shows that there is actually some support.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0037par0567	Mr. Secretary, may I have a moment of your time? Congressmans, Mr. Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Vice President of India and President of the Council of States, who are visiting our country, Mr. Hamid Ansari and the delegation with him have now arrived at our Assembly, and I welcome them on behalf of our Assembly. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Hopefully that'll add to my time. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are concerned with Mr. Reshat Hakmat's 6/54, 6/55, 6/57 and 6/58 questions motions. In the province of Tokat, the Council of Ministers has decided each year to consider the need for capsules, the current stock situation and exports of the Afyon Alkaloids Factory, the districts and districts to produce hash in Turkey and Tokat. Afyon Alkaloids Factory -- capable of processing 20,000 tonnes of hash capsules annually -- is being produced by TMO in places where the Council of Ministers allows poppy crops -- to produce an unstructed hash capsule given to our country by the United Nations agency, which provides the supply of raw materials. Although the poppy seed limit of the Tokat Province was 3,000 per cent, the producers' demands were taken into account in 2010-2011, 30 municipalities, 994 producers were allowed to plant hash in 3.226 areas. The total production of 169 tonnes of hash capsules from the 2.655 decal harvest area, which was determined after measuring the areas given the October permit, was produced, and the manufacturers were paid 456,864 euro at the cost of the capsule. Regarding Mr. Right's question about production systems and production facility control in water products, important projects have been implemented by our Ministry in order to ensure efficient use of our water resources, develop water products and increase its contribution to the economy. The development of marine fish breeding programme has been imposed on fish farms in the seas to produce without harming the environment, allowing them to move at least 0.6 nautical miles offshore, at least 30 metres deep, and to move to areas where the current speed is at least 0.1 m/seconds [0.1 m/second], to produce in sensitive areas and SCE fields. Under this arrangement, businesses that grow water products in our country have been transformed into modern businesses that produce offshore. I especially want to share with you: Culture fishing in Turkey has made a significant improvement. Eight years ago, Turkey was gaining fish from 60,000 tonnes of culture fishing a year. It's up to 167,000 tons today. In the cities of Europe, every four bars and sea bass sold today, one of them is from Turkey, so we export it in Brussels, Berlin, London, Paris, and the European countries. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] At Keban Dam Lake alone, the amount of trout produced only as cultural fishing in one year by Elazig Province is 23,000 tonnes, only in Keban district, at Keban Damaj Lake. We did so in support of it, so it didn't happen out of the blue. Otherwise, 60,000 tons wouldn't amount to 167,000 tons. We made it happen. Now, here, of course, especially in early 2011, we made some arrangements. The sea surface rental areas were very high in some of our provinces. In some of our provinces, there could be rent on the surface of the sea for up to 1,500 liras. We have lowered their limits, and Turkey is now able to compete with the European Union in this area. For this reason, the answer to Mr. Right's question about the sea surface rent was presented by me. The rent prices have been reduced by 10 times and have been withdrawn to the level of member states of the European Union. Again, regarding Mr. Right's question about water products breeding and incentives, a policy is followed by our ministry about water products hunting, not only increasing production, but also sustainability. I mean, not just us, but our grandkids can fish in this country. We have to make this happen, we have to be firm about it, we have to apply our policies to it. In 2010, our country's total production of water products was 653,000 tonnes. Growth production was first introduced by policies in 2003... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, thank you. I'm going to finish it. We're not giving you time. I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0038par0603	Let him use the other Minister's time, he's unfinished.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0037par0604	Dear friends, now there's the question-answer part... You interrupted me, Mr. President... Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, we're not giving you time, sir. Your time is up. Now I'm going to go to the question-answer part. The questioners can ask a short question if they want to. Here you go, Mr. Right. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0039par0612	I think something unfair has happened!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0037par0613	Mr. Secretary, you'll have your answer in a moment, and we'll give it to you in the meantime. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0040par0615	Thank you, Mr. President. After listening to the Minister, we've learned that there's nothing wrong with agriculture and livestock. We're solving it, we're solving it! However, there are so many problems all over Asia Minor. It's about agriculture, and people are in a bad position to farm. When I think about what I should sow and not do harm, Mr. Secretary, everything is perfect, the people in agriculture provide for themselves in the best possible way, they say. Besides, as far as livestock goes, Mr. Minister, since we're so good at livestock, how much does meat weigh? You know, butchers can't find meat to cut right now? 57 lira, 60 lira. GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER 20 lira! 20 lira! In the coming time, now comes the season of sacrifice...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0041par0622	Sir, Mr. Secretary is not going to make a statement...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0040par0623	Minister, we haven't responded to you, you will answer here.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0041par0624	Mr. Secretary is like the minister of bullying!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0040par0625	The Minister is picking on me!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0041par0626	Yeah, there's teasing. Reboot the clock.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0042par0627	Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0040par0628	Sir, Mr. Secretary is using my time. Sir, there's a sacrificial season coming up right now, and I wonder what the price of the sacrifices will be. When we look at the numbers you said, about 200,000...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0042par0631	Thank you, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0040par0632	I couldn't answer! The Minister spoke for me!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0042par0633	Mr. Right, he can ask for a very short explanation here. Please, let me...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0043par0634	Mr. President, he's got 10 questions, you haven't given him 10 minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0042par0635	▪ He may ask for an explanation very briefly. Now it's time for Mr. Öğün.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0043par0637	Mr. President, he asked for ten. If I had a question, you'd agree, he asked me ten questions.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0042par0638	Dear Ensar Öğün...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0044par0639	Mr. President, thank you. We don't have time. They made him lie under the roof of the Grand National Assembly: all is well, all is well in the village of Balçeshme of Gole. You will either remove the governor, the governor, the chief, from there, or you will send a team there immediately, Mr. Minister. Now, I've spoken to the village's former chief prophet Çelik, İlhan Chaineer, Yücel Kotan, Mevlüt Kolik, Esmani Kolik, Omar Çelek, some of them, and they don't come to our house, and we bring water from the bow on their asses. What's the Minister saying there? They're calling now. Is there such a diversion? I'm here to press charges against prosecutors, Ardahan prosecutors: Please, find out who made the minister tell the lie in the village of Balçeshme of Lake, who made the Minister of the Republic of Turkey lie and investigate. Mr. Secretary, Kars, Ardahan, that region, you know that it once fed Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it over?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0647	I'm sorry, Mr. Öğüt.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0046par0648	Mr. President, he's got ten questions, ten questions.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0649	My dear friends, the question here is clear, only the questioners ask for explanations and say it's too short.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0046par0650	He did.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0651	Please... Now, Mr. Secretary, he's going to make a statement on this statement.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0047par0653	One minute is too short.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0654	That's it, sir. I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, you have five minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0048par0657	No, sir. No, Mr. President. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0658	That is what he says, and that is what the Civil Law says.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0048par0659	No, Mr. President, there's no such thing as five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0660	Sir, please, there's nothing wrong with this one.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0048par0661	Mr. President, there is no such app. There's no five minutes. There's no such thing as five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0662	I'll explain later. Come on. Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0048par0663	No, sir, I can't.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0045par0664	Sir, the 98th article says five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Reshat is saying that while we listen to the minister, there is no problem in Turkey, all problems are over. He says so. Dear friends, as life goes on, problems continue. The problem is something that lives. The problem, of course, is not over. The main thing isn't to be homesick. He's a genius, that's not gonna happen. We know how to solve that problem when faced with the problem, we're developing a solution to it, and we're managing the solution to that problem. This is how we've come to this day, and this is how we'll come from now on. What's the proof of that? What's it supposed to do? The way it's done, the choices we've had. Every time you say that here, we say: "No, that's the way it is." We go to our nation as referees, and our nation says: "Yes, this problem is being solved." All problems aren't solved, there are new problems, there will be new problems. Before 2005, there was no such disease as bird flu in the world. In the fall of 2005, bird flu came out. But we've solved this problem. We've dealt with this problem. We fought in the right way. Now, that's the way it is with other problems. Of course, agriculture, livestock, will have new problems in time. Now, he asked about the price of meat... dear friends, not 50 or 60 liras, but the price of meat.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0049par0674	How much is lamb now, Minister? No, meat is $20. Look, I didn't mean to... How much is the meat, Minister? No, look, dear friends all over Turkey, don't take one very extreme sample and generalize it to Turkey. 60 percent of the meat consumed in Turkey is birdmeat, even more than 60. At the moment, the average price of meat is in Turkey, the average price is 20 liras, and the average price of a bird is 22 liras. Now, let's sit on a curve, so let's talk straight, and this price has dropped by 16 percent since April 26th of 2010. 16 percent... it's still a 16 percent drop in today's price, at the price of April 26th, 2010. I'd like to make this known to you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0050par0681	It's a day and a half of minimum wage. Now, dear friends, at minimum wage, they didn't get much more. He was getting more. In the past, he didn't get much more at minimum wage. Our Finance Minister will give you his long list at the budget presentation and you'll listen to him. It's not just the meat, it's the minimum wage today, but how much more products can be taken from what pencils, Mr. Finance Minister, who has explained it long and long, here on this bench. I'll send you one from that list, if you like. I mean, with today's minimum wage, it's getting more and more than before. Of course, our hearts are in favor of the greater prosperity of all our citizens in Turkey, and that's what we're working for. All new projects, all revenue increases, that's the point of everything, is to serve more people, but it's not the way they say it is. You don't just have to see one side of the matter, you have to see all sides of it. Now, about what Mr. Öğüpük said about the village of Balçeshme... Is Mr. Ömül here? Now, valuable lawmakers, the information I've been given from Ardahan Governorate, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior, says there is no problem with the water tank there. I said it here, I said it. If your claim is reversed, we'll pull him out of the governor's office in a little while, we'll have him audited if we have to, it'll make sense. Don't worry about him.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0051par0686	You're welcome, send a delegation, look into it. Minister, the names I mentioned have been filed. We've never been near the wrong, and we'll never be near the wrong after that. Besides, how do you know the information you've been given isn't wrong? I mean, we have to consider that, too. So that's how we'll know. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have just been subject to Mr. Reshad Rights regarding water products. Dear friends, in the work conducted by the FAO, Turkey has become the world's 7th largest country in the world for agricultural revenues. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We took Turkey to the 11th place, we raised Turkey to the 7th place in terms of agricultural revenue. $23 billion in agricultural revenues went up $62 billion. Turkey has passed four countries around the world and now has the world's seventh largest agricultural revenues.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0692	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My dear friends...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0051par0694	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement about the procedure.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0695	Mr. Öğüt, can I have your attention for a second? Sir, just a second. I'm sorry, I'll tell you and then you can ask again if you want.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0051par0696	Okay, okay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0697	According to Article 98, there was a one-hour period of questions and answers. Now, that clock is over here. I said five minutes, three minutes. Now, there's no way we can get past this clock. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0051par0698	Sir, I'd like to make a brief statement about the procedure.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0699	You ask your questions, you get answers, you get satisfaction, you get to ask them again.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0053par0700	Mr. President, he wants a word about the procedure.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0701	But not right now, it's over, an hour's over. I'm sorry, Mr. Öpün. I apologize.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0054par0702	Mr. President, I'd like a word about the procedure, sir, on Article 98 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0703	Sir, now, look...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0054par0704	Look, I'm sorry, Mr. President. Let me put it this way.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0705	We are currently implementing the Charter, which has been under way for years at the General Assembly. About the procedure... what is your objection to the procedure?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0054par0707	It says here that the answer to the name of the government will not last more than five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0708	No, that's after your second question. That's why I said five minutes, not five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0054par0709	But wait a minute, the questioner doesn't have a minute.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0710	So what am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0054par0711	So it doesn't say one minute, two minutes, five minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0055par0712	No, he says it's too short.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0713	But the procedure is, your questions...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0054par0714	A brief explanation, he says.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0715	Look, you gave the question in writing, the questions were read.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0056par0716	Mr. Ensar says it's too short.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0717	Mr. Ensar Öğüt, now, you've given your questions before, the questions have been read, the Minister has begun to answer. The reading of questions, the answers, and your questions are an hour...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0057par0718	But what I'm saying is...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0719	That time's up, there's nothing irregular about it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0057par0720	Look, I'm sorry, 15 questions won't take two minutes. Fifteen questions, that's the explanation.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0721	Sir, if you go with that logic... there's no such number, so I'm sorry, I wish we could do the math.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0057par0722	Well, I give you my compliments. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0724	Now, let's move on to the "choice" part of the agenda.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0058par0725	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0726	Mr. Right, if you please. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Before we got to that, our friends, Mr. Erdogan, had a one-minute question about the previous debate. Your position, please, just...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0059par0728	So did I.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0729	No. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0060par0731	I had one, too. It's been erased. One minute according to 60...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0061par0732	Mehmet Günal or Erdogan?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0733	No, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0060par0734	So do I. It's not about that, it's about Antalya.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0735	Mr. Günal, it's over, there are other friends.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0060par0736	It's not about that, it's not about that.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0052par0737	Then I'll give it to you after Mr. Erdogan. Now, Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0062par0741	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I ask God's mercy on our citizens who have lost their lives due to the heavy rains in the Aegean and Mediterranean regions since the weekend. And my condolences to our citizens who have been harmed by these disasters. During that time, about 150 kilograms of rain fell on the square meter in the city of Mugla, and the fields of crops were severely damaged. Again, some roads and bridges have suffered damage. I'd like to inform you that with rapid detection of the damage done around here, the ministries concerned with the immediate removal of the victims of our citizens must act quickly, and the measures necessary to ensure that our citizens will not be subjected to any more serious harm in the next disaster. Gene, in the meantime, I would like to request that the assistance necessary to our citizens be done quickly by the relevant institutions.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0063par0745	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Our Antalya MP, Mr. Günal, would like to say a word of good health, please, sir, very short.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0064par0748	Thank you, Mr. President. There has been a serious flood in Gebiz district of Serik district of Antalya Province, and there is damage to more than 20 homes, health clinics, and village rooms. Six of our citizens were missing, four of their bodies were found in the morning. I ask God's mercy for the people who have lost their lives, my condolences to their relatives. Serious damage to bridges, three bridges, two vents, but, of course, beyond that, the Minister of Agriculture spoke here, the major agricultural area areas of the flood. There are serious damage to both Aksu and Serik districts. Hopefully, the damage to our citizens who have been damaged there will be paid first after their damage assessment. In recent years, they say there's been a rain that hasn't been seen in 30 or 40 years. Hopefully, government, members here will support this and our citizens will be compensated immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0065par0751	Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda. We're going to vote for members of the Peace and Democracy Party group who are idle in the commissions. 1) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Adana]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Bitlis]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 1) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Van]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission [[Kars]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission [[Mwah.]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Mardin]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission [[Bingöl]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Agriculture, Forest and Village Commission [[Pain]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission [[Şanlıurfa]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Diyarbakır]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Hakkari]] [[Van]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[Mersin]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[İstanbul]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0066par0827	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0065par0828	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0066par0831	As the Peace and Democracy Party Group, we have announced to the Parliamentary Chair that under Article 20 of the Civil Code, we appoint our commissions to the Parliamentary Commissions. We also recommended our Şırnak MP, Selma Irmak, to the Women's and Men's Equality Commission. As you know, Selma River is a arrested MP. But he's not a prisoner. The law of the prisoners and the law of the condemned are separate. It is possible for arrested MPs to participate in Parliamentary legislature activities. What's important here is that there's an administrative savings in the face of a decision to arrest him as a measure of judicial action. That is, the Parliamentary Presidency and the Ministry of Justice should have completed the oath ceremony under the Civil Code... which was four months from now, and since there was no ruling in the Civil Code on this matter, I'm afraid the Parliamentary Presidency has not completed this oath ceremony on eight arrested MPs. It's not because of the arrested MPs, it's not because of the Party for Peace and Democracy. Also, as you know -- I'm going to talk about the legal process -- any person who is under arrest under Law 5275, under the law of permission, can again be granted a leave of absence -- not by an administrative decision, but by an administrative decision -- and in the right reasons required by the warrant -- this has happened recently, in the funeral ceremony, in the case of different diseases, in the case of natural disasters. Now, the House can't participate in legislature activities because eight members of the House can't perform this oath ceremony. They've been chosen, they've taken their prisoners, and there's both rights and liability. The House is locked up at this point. Our friend, who is in charge of this commission, even under arrest, has the right to use parliamentary control routes, even in prison conditions. What is this? The motion for questions, the motion for research, general discussion, the geneor, or to present reports to his own commission, not to offer suggestions. Now, there is a very serious lockdown on both the legal and national will's status of the arrested MP if the oath has not been taken within four months. In this regard, we would expect the Speaker of Parliament to come to us with an answer -- which I had written to the Speaker of Parliament -- that he might say: "We can't put Mr. Selma, whom you elected to the Commission, to the General Assembly's vote, but for this reason... For what it's worth, I'm saying this: I mean, when the Parliamentary Office is in the position of obstructing law enforcement and making the wrong decision, it's also an administrative issue because it's an administrative savings. What about administrative judgment? If we receive a negative answer against this wrong decision, both as a group and as a member of parliament have the right to apply for a halt to executive justice. If this does not result, the European Convention on Human Rights shall apply for an individual application due to violation of the free elections. Now, this is the People's Assembly. We've been elected by the will of the nation... and it's been four months, not a short time. All the parties talked about it, we talked about it. We say the obstacles to the will of the nation must be removed at once. In this regard, we think the position of the Speaker of Parliament is wrong. We'd like to open a procedure discussion under Article 63. The opinion that the four party groups in the General Assembly are going to form on this issue... so this isn't a voting event. I don't think that any of my fellow lawmakers, elected by the will of the nation, would be unable to vote so that the arrested MPs wouldn't be sworn in. But, Mr. President, if you'd like to call the four-party group representatives of your presidency in the back of a short negotiation, we'd have a solution. And what about the sworn-in situation of these fellow inmates? They can't even get their rights. He can't inform the secretaries, consultants. Parliamentary studies can't be sent. Maybe they're watching us in prison, live, from Parliament TV, because it's not seven o'clock, Mr. President, the attitude and the decision you're going to make. I think it's unnecessary to bring this as a subject of tension, of debate, and I think there should be a solution in terms of the principles of universal law in which there is no openness to law, legitimacy and the Civil Code. I believe the Ministry has some work, and I know that the Parliamentary Presidency has some work, but a consortium is a matter of understanding, and I demand a meeting with four groups in your room in the back, with a five-minute negotiation. And I don't feel the need to argue this way, you've already given me plenty of words. Thank you for listening to me.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0067par0838	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0068par0839	Don't you want to discuss the procedure?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0066par0840	I don't want to, I'm making demands. I've asked our president to take initiative to see if his friends in the four groups could have a brief discussion with our president and open a front-row seat on this matter.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0067par0841	Mr. Kaplan, I understand your request and your explanation. However, you said that since the House opened, the issue of this Constitutional oath has not been fulfilled, it has not been done, it hasn't been done, it hasn't been done, it hasn't been done, it hasn't been done. Now, rather than being a traditional practice, I agree with you, if we accept it as an application of today since the House opened. It's got to be resolved, but I don't think it's going to work out with five minutes in the back or the group talk, honestly, I mean it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0066par0842	Mr. President, it's a shame for the Parliament that Mr. Cicek, if necessary, Mr. Cicek will form an agreement with the President, and the MPs of these four groups, to evaluate Mr. Cicek, and to have a radical solution to this problem, so it's a shame that eight of my fellow lawmakers here can't do the legislature work here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0069par0843	Mr. President, this is a matter of 15 minutes that Mr. Group Vice President has been trying to express in the Presidential Court. So we have to state that the capital of this Parliament has not been saved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is what we're discussing, what's not in the General Assembly, what the Council of Parliament has made, what we're doing is wrong. I assume he's made his point, and I demand that we conclude it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0067par0844	Mr. Kaplan, indeed... now, look, you've made your record. And I promise you, Mr. President, I'll pass along what you said, but you'll appreciate that there's nothing here that can be handled immediately.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0066par0845	All right, Mr. President, then I'll make one more point. This matter I'm about to present is of great interest again in the matter of the Speakership.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0070par0847	Mr. President, on what grounds does Mr. Group Vice President present this? Sir, we're doing what's not in the Civil Code here.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0071par0848	Let him finish now, sir. He started a saying, let him finish it, and I'll pass right away. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0072par0850	Mr. President, as you know, at the opening of the House, the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0073par0851	Mr. President, let's discuss the procedure and we'll discuss it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0074par0852	Sir, this is no time for a formal discussion.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0072par0853	...the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr. President, has been given a single membership in our group under the 20th Amendment in a Council of Counsellors they disagreed with. So only the participation of AK PARTY and the DP... was divided into 26 (AS/TK) commissions when they were 25 (AS/TK); the 3 (HP) of the CHP (CHP) was given us one-on-one membership. For the following independent MPs, there are six independent MPs -- there are no seats left in any commission. Now, in this regard, there is a two-group Council of Counsellors on the four-group Parliament. Commission membership has been selected at an advisory council with CHP and BDP not participating.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0075par0855	There was no band then, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0072par0856	It's just because the Plan Budget Commission and the Public Economics Commission are legally set up, we have a two-way membership here. We'd like to open a legal debate on equality, justice and freedom -- the equality of these commissions -- on this decision of the Presidential Court, because it's a decision made when we're not on the Council of Counsel. According to 63...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0076par0858	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Kaplan, I've listened to you, but here's the thing: you didn't come to the House during that decision, and you didn't swear. So, now that you've submitted your application, he can reevaluate the situation after the oath. I think we should leave him there because you weren't in Congress at the time, when he wasn't in Congress, when he didn't swear, of course there was a meeting with the existing groups, but let's report him. Please...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0072par0859	When we're not in Congress, because we're not, we have 35 MPs, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0076par0860	You're right. Sir, this request of yours, since you've come and joined...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0072par0861	There are three members of the group, 53 MPs, six members with 135 deputies.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0076par0862	Mr. Kaplan, since you've come and joined, this request will be delivered to the presidency. They sit down and reassess. It's not what we're going to talk about here because you weren't really here then.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0072par0863	The Speaker shouldn't make those mistakes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0076par0864	I'm sorry. I mean, I'm really sorry. There's another commissioner's election. Ağrı MP Mehmet Kerim Yıldız has been nominated as a candidate for the 1 membership of the Justice and Development Party Group, which is empty in the Human Rights Review Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0077par0870	Mr. President, we also had proposals for international commission membership, so we had assignments. Why don't you guys...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0076par0871	They're voted separately, not here.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0077par0872	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0076par0873	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0077par0874	So we've given the European Karma Parliament, NATO...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit01spe0076par0875	So are the others. We'll talk later. Under the decision taken, we'll move on to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Jobs from the Commissions, but in the meantime, I'll take a half-hour recess, and then we'll reconvene. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 5th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We can't start negotiations with Army MP Ihsan Sener and Kopeli MP Azize Siegel Gonul, who have been taken to the 1st place of the agenda, who have been withdrawn by the Commission on the 8th Amendment to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0007	Mr. President, how can it be withdrawn? It's on the agenda. On the agenda...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0076par0008	The commissions can always pull something that's on the agenda.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0009	After you've been put on the agenda, the General Assembly... read the law of reading, read the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0076par0010	I've read the Civil Code and so on.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0011	No, Mr. President, I mean, when you say something like that, it doesn't work. Read the Civil Code, read it!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0079par0012	Article 75 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0013	Once it's on the agenda, it's by the General Assembly's decision. It's been put on the agenda, the Council of Counsellor's decision...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0080par0014	Please take your seat, please. I'm reading, sir: The original commission, or the government, may request that all of the proposals or proposals be returned to the commission once or for all.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0016	But we haven't started negotiating yet.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0080par0017	He doesn't say that, sir. I read it, I read it, I read it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0081par0018	Read also Article 75.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0019	If the 75th article is on the agenda, the General Assembly has decided...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0080par0020	I'm reading the next sentence: this will be met without discussion. ▪ Do you have anything else to say?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0021	Mr. President, sir, after he starts negotiating with the General Assembly, the commission or the government may withdraw...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0082par0022	There's no record of that.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0078par0023	They're giving you some bad information. Would you read the 75th article, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0083par0024	There's no such thing, sir. I'm rereading the item.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0084par0025	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0083par0026	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0084par0027	Regarding the proposals of the law, the decision of the General Assembly must be made according to Article 75, because it has been raised.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0028	It's been taken.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0084par0029	Let our friends consider it that way. After the proposals of the law were put on the agenda, according to the Civil Code of 75...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0086par0030	That's 75. That's what it says, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0031	No, there's another sentence there, Mr. President, and I take it upon myself, I take it upon myself, sir. He can take over the parliamentary office for further negotiations on the proposal.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0087par0032	No, sir, you can't do that, not if the commission's pulling.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0033	There's no commission, brother.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0088par0034	The commission's pulling in.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0087par0035	If the bidder wants it, you can take it upon yourself.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0036	I get it, but I mean, which one is it?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0087par0037	The commission's pulling in.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0038	There's no commission. The commission hasn't even started negotiating yet.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0089par0039	There's no record of that.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0087par0040	Here we go, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0041	It didn't start, dear.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0090par0042	The Council Council of Ministers has voted...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0091par0043	Excuse me. See, I'm reading Article 75: The government or its bidder can take back the bill or proposals, provided the General Assembly is given information before they are brought up. There is no commission here. There's a commission here, sir, a commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0044	Sir, there's no Commission yet!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0091par0045	It says here the government or the bidder.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0085par0046	Mr. President, there is no Commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0092par0047	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0091par0048	Just a minute... please... just a minute...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0093par0049	Mr. President, what you're doing is correct, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0091par0050	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0094par0051	No, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0091par0052	Wait a second...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0053	If the bidder withdraws his offer, he won't go to the Commission if he asks the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0091par0054	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0055	The Commission is withdrawing its talks to continue in the Commission, as the Commission is currently withdrawing them.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0091par0056	It's obvious. It's obvious.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0096par0057	No, Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0058	The Civil Code is drawing according to 88, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0096par0059	Look, the Commission hasn't sat there yet. Mr. President, I don't...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0096par0061	Let's talk about the truth!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0097par0062	One second, sir, one second...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0063	Just give us a minute, and we'll talk.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0096par0064	You don't know that.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0065	You know too much! That's where you're wrong. Mr. President, the government may request to withdraw according to Article 75, or the bidder.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0096par0067	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0068	It means the government or the bidder doesn't want this to happen. If in any way the bidder or the government can ask this to be discussed, any member of parliament can claim it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0096par0069	Well, okay.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0070	That's what our friend here said, but the Commission wants to reevaluate this issue in the Commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0098par0071	Yeah, that's the point.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0095par0072	If the bidder wanted it, it meant he couldn't be seen.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0098par0073	That's right, that's what we're doing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0099par0074	No, our friend is giving false information.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0100par0075	It's not false information.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0099par0076	The commission hasn't been authorized there yet. If he doesn't want to negotiate the commission, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0101par0077	Mr. Young, just a moment...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0102par0078	It comes out because I know everything. You're messing with his head.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0099par0079	Just a minute, sir. Look, there are two things: the commission, once again, hasn't sat there, it hasn't started. Therefore, if it does not sit down, the negotiations are already postponed.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0101par0080	Okay.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0099par0081	To get the commission to take it back, he's going to sit there first, he's going to negotiate...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0103par0082	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0104par0083	For God's sake!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0099par0084	...will be asked to return after that, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0103par0085	There's no such thing in the charter.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0099par0086	The Commission has no authority.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0105par0087	Mr. President, this Civil Code must be changed immediately.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0106par0088	Wait a minute, this is Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0107par0089	Mr. President, the 88th article, in fact, is a clause in the framework of discussing the bill and proposals in the General Assembly when it is systematically considered.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0106par0090	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0107par0091	Thus, the General Assembly needs to be processed according to Article 75 regarding issues that have not been discussed. It's not the will of the commission, it's the will of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0106par0092	No, no...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0108par0093	Mr. President, you don't need the General Assembly's will, you can only do this, but what you're doing is right.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0107par0094	That's not true.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0108par0095	The commission and the government are not in place. Since you said, we'll move on, but the President of the Commission is here.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0109par0096	But you can't pull back.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0108par0097	The President of the Commission has submitted his petition, and I want this to be seen again in the Commission. He said, "The Civil Code will be called upon to vote according to 88.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0110par0098	Let the Commissioner sit here and draw the text.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0108par0099	No, sir, is that all right? According to Article 88... don't, don't!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0111par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0112par0101	Yes, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0113par0102	We draw the text. It says, it's over.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0114par0103	Mr. Vural, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0115par0104	He might want it in writing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0114par0105	He's making a written request.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0115par0106	He asked for it in writing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0116par0107	This is not the place for the President of the Commission's pleasure, it must be addressed in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0114par0108	We're just talking to him. Article 75 of non-disclosure requests...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0116par0109	If you weren't going to see him, why did you seek the decision of the Speakership?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0117par0110	You're interfering, you!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0114par0111	Mr. Young, you need to study some more! You've got 30 more years to work!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0117par0112	Negotiation is mandatory according to Article 88.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0118par0113	A return of an offer, according to 88, by the signature of one person, I take it back. The system is not possible. For one thing, the commission will sit here, the negotiations will begin, negotiations will begin, when the negotiations start, that commission will be enough, not enough, the commission will have to sit there, there will have to be enough of the commission. If that can't be done, then we'll have a facto situation here...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0114par0114	Mr. President, if you're going to open a formal debate, you're going to vote or you're going to proceed with your decision.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0119par0115	Now, my dear friends, very clearly, the President of the Commission is sending a letter to the President, saying that according to Article 88 of the Civil Charter, we withdraw the entire Commission's proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in the 12th place.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0120par0116	He can't.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0119par0117	I respectfully present your message.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0120par0118	Sir, he can't, even if he writes 50 articles, he can't, the General Assembly is here! Is the will of the Commission above the will of the General Assembly?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0121par0120	Don't do it, Mr. Vural! (Voices) If the Commission does not sit there, the General Assembly will not form its will.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0119par0121	Now, sir... no, no, nothing like that, please sit down.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0122par0123	Mr. President, open a formal debate on Article 63.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0121par0124	Mr. President, are you having a formal discussion, sir?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0119par0125	Sir, wait a second, let's have a formal discussion if you want.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0122par0126	I want a word, then, against it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0121par0127	Mr. President, we want it in favor.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0123par0128	It's in favor, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0124par0129	In accordance with the decision of the General Assembly, I am taking it off the agenda. It is an attack on the authority of the General Assembly. Is that even possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0125par0130	What happens when the Commissioner doesn't sit down?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0126par0131	It'll be postponed.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0124par0132	Yeah, it'll be postponed. UNAL RUNNING - So?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0127par0134	Now...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0128par0135	It'll be postponed, but it won't get it back.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0124par0136	He can't take it back, it won't happen.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0129par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0130par0138	Sir...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0131par0139	Mr. President, let them evacuate the House, and if the decision is not enough, let it be closed again.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0132par0140	Don't let him make any decisions.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0131par0141	There's no commission now, no minister, they'll put it off anyway. If the AK PARTY people don't want to meet, they withdraw, they evacuate, the General Assembly. If there's not enough...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0132par0142	Mr. Mustafa, let the negotiations begin, let them film.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0131par0143	But not this system.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0132par0144	What an unnecessary argument!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0133par0145	Mr. President, we've already done enough time to discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0132par0146	What a waste!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0134par0147	Not everyone talks.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0133par0148	Open a formal debate, put it to a vote, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0135par0149	Yeah, that's not a vote.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0136par0150	No, it's a violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0133par0151	Sir, what you're doing is correct.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0136par0152	It's not a formal debate; it's not a procedure!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0137par0153	Now, sir, look, we've got two ways: we've started the practice, we'll continue this or we'll open a discussion of procedure, one of the two. We'll go back to whatever Congress wants.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0136par0154	Mr. President, I mean, you can't change the Civil Code with the procedural debate.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0137par0155	We're not changing the Civil Code. Who says we're changing the Civil Code?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0136par0156	For what it's worth, it's a change. Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0137par0158	There's a law to be negotiated, sir. There's no commission, no ministry right now. You're gonna knock him out, so...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0138par0160	Call the commission, Mr. President. Call the commission first. Or you'll have to postpone. Call the commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0139par0161	Postponing is one thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0140par0162	Mr. President, call the commission first...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0138par0163	Call the commission, you didn't call the commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0141par0164	Call the commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0142par0165	Excuse me... Commission?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0143par0167	Commission!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0142par0168	No.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0144par0169	Then it's been postponed.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0143par0170	Government?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0145par0171	Mr. President, are you having a formal discussion?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0143par0172	No, no, no... call the commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0146par0173	Postpone it, sir. Postpone it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0145par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0147par0175	Now, just a second, sir...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0146par0177	What a meaningful argument!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0147par0178	We said, "Don't take it back according to the 88." Our friends say, "This is not in order."
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0148par0179	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0147par0180	There you go, the procedural debate... I'll give you my word in a row.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0149par0182	Sir, it's in favor.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0147par0183	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0150par0184	Mr. President, no, you haven't called the commission yet. Call the commission and the government, you can't open it yet.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0147par0185	In favor, I'll promise against it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0151par0186	Mr. President, one man in favor, one man in favor, sir. Lehte...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0147par0188	Lehte. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0152par0190	Against...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0153par0191	Against...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0154par0192	Your Honor, he will speak against you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0155par0193	Mr. President, you can't. You invited the commission, no commission. You said you can't open it yet.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0156par0194	No commission. He didn't say that.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0157par0195	I've got it, sir. I've got it. You do what you have to do, I've opened it. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0158par0198	You can't open it.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0157par0199	Who's speaking against you?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0159par0200	We've made a promise against him, and he needs to be spoken against first.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0157par0201	Okay, on the contrary... please...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0160par0203	Mr. President, you can't have a formal discussion. Mr. President, you've invited the commission, you've invited the government, you can't open it yet.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0157par0204	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0161par0205	Mr. President, the speaker in favor will speak first.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0162par0206	My friend, Mr. Elitaş, haven't you learned? First we're going to speak up, then you're going to speak up.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0161par0207	Mr. President, he's making another error in procedure, first he speaks in favor.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0162par0208	We haven't been able to teach you, Mr. Elitaş!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0161par0209	Mr. President, he's making a misdirection, first he speaks in favor.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0163par0210	Here you go. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0164par0214	You think we're calling it a lesbo, but it's not like that, guys. Look, we're talking about something very serious here. For the first time, a matter concerning the Civil Charter came to the attention of our female representatives. Dawn Pavey, in the eyes of our brother, her smiling face has imposed such a law in this House. We didn't take part in this proposal as commissioners yet, and if we had, we would have had different suggestions, but we realized that we had made a motion to the Speaker of Parliament regarding this proposal of the law. In this motion, we asked for the removal of the tie obligation, and in accordance with their beliefs, we made a motion that our female representatives could wear a headdress. Here, the government is trapped here and is taking maneuvers to get the offer back, which is wrong. Look, we've decided on the Council of Counsellors according to the Civil Code of 19. He came here, was he voted? It's a vote. Has the General Assembly agreed? He did. Has the General Assembly put it on the agenda? He's got it today, so I'll see him now. We're looking, there's no minister, there's no land; there's no commission, land! I mean, that's your offer, and why do you guys refuse to see it here, to discuss a proposal that's been agreed upon by the Commission? We can come up with different suggestions, you can make different proposals, we can argue. There's nothing more embarrassing in this House than the fact that we're still in the 21st century discussing militant uniforms, black clothes, pants or skirts, and now we're in the focus of the ancient debates. If this Parliament can't discuss it, and unfortunately, it's against the Civil Code to take it back, if it intends to bring in a law proposed by the Commission and take it back instead of delaying it. Here, members of the AK PARTY, you'll evacuate the hall, there won't be enough decision-making, it'll be postponed, we'll come back tomorrow. If you don't like it, you'll give me your reason to take it back, your minister and the majority of your Commission, but there should be a majority of the Commission... Yeah, we can't co-sign laws here, in Parliament, by running, as a land. It's shameful, it's shameful, it's sinful. I mean, the will of this House can't be played so openly. It's not right to argue about a proposal you just agreed to yesterday in the House, it can't be undone, it can't be postponed.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0165par0219	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. We promise two friends in favor and against. Mr. Kaplan has spoken against you. In your favor, Mr. Gardendoor. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0166par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have just taken a stand in favor of the decision taken by the Presidential Court, and I will speak. The Constitutional Commission, which was the main commission, withdrew the proposal while discussing a proposal for amendments in the Civil Charter 12 a few minutes ago, and Mr. Chairman's Court declared that it had made this arrangement in accordance with Article 88 of the Civil Code. We agree because Article 88 of the Civil Code states that the Commission or the government can withdraw all or all or certain articles of the bill or proposal. It is the savings of the principal commission and the government. In this practice, the principal commission, the Constitutional Commission, has done so.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0167par0226	Not if the commission doesn't take over, which it doesn't. Not until the commission is in place, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0166par0227	However, some objections came from the opposition ranks, saying the 75th article must be implemented. The 75th article says that the government or its bidder, before the bill and its proposals are brought up, is an application that is valid when the 75th article, the bill and the proposals are not on the agenda, but the 88th article is a mandate given to the government and the principal commission after the proposal is put on the agenda. That's what the Commission used. We're going to vote in favor of the presidential court, and I'd like to give you our opinion that it's in your favor. Yours truly.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0168par0230	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0169par0232	Mr. President, I asked for it in the first place. Anyway...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0168par0233	I gave it to the vice president of the group. Your time is three minutes, Your Honor.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0170par0235	Mr. President, in these matters and the Civil Code, the members of the group must be given priority, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0171par0236	Mr. President, dear MPs, first of all, I give you my regards. It would have been nice if our House hadn't really started its work with such an argument. With very good intentions, very sincerely, this bill has been drafted to legalize a necessity, and all groups have supported it, and so has the Commission. However, whatever happened today is being tried to withdraw the law to the Commission for reasons they have not told us, possibly for reasons they do not know, according to the 75 ▪ or according to 88. It doesn't matter. The important thing is to question that intention. Why are you filming? I'll see you tomorrow. Thanks. I'll see you tomorrow, but why are you taking it to the Commission? Now, we've come together for the sincere legalization of a necessity, a necessity. For a very special reason in a brother's life, let's make it possible for our female deputies, our women's deputies, to wear a coat, or pants, but today, something else has come up. Let not the tie be worn, let it enter with the head covering of the General Assembly. Dear friends, are we going to eat grapes, or are we going to beat up the farmer? What's the use of arguing, creating tensions, getting involved in this senseless friction by mixing the problems of other areas into other areas? Is that true, fellas? Now, the Commission... I don't know who the Commissioner is, our new National Education Commission...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0172par0241	Burhan Lamb.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0173par0242	From Burhan Lamb...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0171par0243	Burhan is from the Lamb.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0174par0244	Because Burhan Lamb doesn't do wrong, we call it right.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0171par0246	Ah Hajji, oh my beautiful Master, if that's the right thing to do, we'll have a hard time. Dear Hodja, if any of your rights are to be discussed like this, it's wrong if this council is to be challenged. So it's not right to start a discussion like this on the first day that we've come to terms with cooperation, very sincerely, no matter what your motive, and really, truly, society... As the National Movement Party, our children's problems must be solved because they have their head covered in higher education. The nationalist movement party stands by his proposal. Let's change the Constitution again, let's fix it, but if you try to use this obligation, this support, in another field, you'll have to look for other intentions. Teacher, that's what's wrong. So, I'm the president's... of course, he's being misled: 75? 88? So, why did we put together the Board of Counsellors? Why did we decide? Why do we have an agenda? Does the Commission have the right to disrupt a specified agenda? It's not right, it's not useful. So I don't think they have the right to interrupt a negotiation without the commission meeting there, and it's not legal. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0175par0251	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Yeah, in favor of... Here you go. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0176par0255	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In fact, during the recent recession of the General Assembly, we discussed it with our group's co-chair friends. Let's talk about the general, and then he'll put it on the commission's agenda, where he'll make the evaluations. What should we do in this process? We sent some of our friends because we weren't going to discuss the international contract in our previous meetings. Are we going to discuss international contracts with friends? Some of them said, "I don't have a speaker. They're leaving." If you don't have friends who talk, let's take this offer off the agenda, and we'll discuss the international contract, the six contracts that are on our agenda. Mr. President, before we take a break, we've assessed this while he's taking a break. And then we said, let's not do the debate on the gene. We need to technically make an adjustment. This technical arrangement... in fact, we'll bring Mr. Commissioner here, we'll talk to him, he'll sign it, he'll ask for it. Our friends in those Laws said it should be asked and arranged according to Article 88. There is no difference, legally, between the commission being here and asking for it, sitting in the lines of the Commission, and signing a petition. Look...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0177par0259	No, he needs to sit down.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0176par0260	Look...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0177par0261	He needs to sit down, we need to see him.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0176par0262	Dear friends, allow me.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0177par0263	The pilgrims were also voting.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0176par0264	Mr. Kaplan, excuse me.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0178par0265	Mr. Kaplan, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0177par0266	He should be sitting here, the Commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0176par0267	Mr. Kaplan, excuse me.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0178par0268	Mr. Kaplan, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0176par0269	Look, Mr. Kaplan, you just became Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0179par0270	By God, you got the pilgrims to vote.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0178par0271	There's no such thing. There are so many different things, don't make us talk.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0180par0272	Please... Please...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0181par0273	You may be a lawyer, but the laws of the House come from experience. You just said: "Read and learn, come, first spoken against and then in favor." If you had read or heard the 60th article, if you had given yourself in full during your four-year term as a deputy, you would have known that you would have spoken in favor, then against it, because it was the 60th article.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0182par0274	There's a discussion of the procedure, Elistash, the one who opens it will speak.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0181par0275	Now, look, dear friends, what does item 56 say? Turkey organises the disguises of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and members of the Grand National Assembly General Assembly. Last semester, there were two women...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0182par0276	You're going to say woman.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0181par0277	...our female friend has been elected Deputy Speaker of Parliament. They had problems with fraks and vests, and the Presidential Court, along with the deal of all groups -- the 56th Amendment -- solved this issue without needing a change of the Civil Code. Now, the 88th article on this issue... a friend of ours is saying something about the 75th article, he says that if he takes it, only the owner or the government can take it. If the bidder is pulling it, I don't want to be interviewed. If someone says, "I accept this," and adopts, the negotiations can continue. The 75th article is all about this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Article 88 is the commission's statement that I continue with my will, that I want to discuss it, that my will continues in the same way.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0183par0281	Elitaş, tell me why you put it in reverse. Why don't you tell us why you're pulling back, so we can figure it out.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0181par0282	I express that the implementation of the presidency is correct, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0184par0284	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0183par0285	Don't tell us a story, tell us why you're pulling it back.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0181par0286	You'll find out tomorrow at the Commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0183par0287	Why are you pulling back?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0181par0288	The commission's pulling, the Commission's pulling.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0183par0289	General Board, report to the public, speak properly.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0181par0290	You'll find out tomorrow at the Commission.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0185par0291	Dear MPs, the Civil Code 88 says the government may ask for a withdrawal of a number of articles or all items of the bill or proposal, only once. Our attitude was in this center, and since there's been no change in our attitude, the commission...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0292	Mr. President, you run the House very happily. Open the records and see who wants the first word against you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0185par0294	It's in the transcripts, too, so I'm going to ask you to sit down for a second, please, I didn't promise you anything, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0187par0295	Mr. President, this is an insult to the Speakership, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0296	You guys are so fun to run!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0185par0297	Please, have a seat. Ask for a word first. It's inadmissible in Congress, written or spoken for. Ask for a word first. Please...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0298	You just sat here yesterday, running this coven so happily. We won't let you sit there when you're in the mood.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0188par0299	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0300	Who ordered the hungry reports, the starving reports, to speak against them? I'm the one who wants a word against you first.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0189par0301	It's in the transcripts... see item 75...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0188par0302	Mr. President, this person is insulting the Speakership! Mr. Group Vice Presidents, Mr. Group Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0303	I'm the one who wants to say something against you first.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0189par0304	No, there's a lot of applications in the transcripts I can show you here, let them show you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0305	Let's open the records...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0189par0306	Okay, please, please...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0307	You're such a fun guy.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0189par0308	No, it's not about the mood.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0309	You don't have the right to promise what you want. Run the coven right!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0189par0310	I've tried to apply 88, you've opened it, and I think what I'm doing is right.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0311	Is that independent? Is that independent?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0312	It's none of your business!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0314	I'm not talking to you.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0315	Who are you to interfere with my Group President?
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0316	I'm talking to the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0317	Go sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0319	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0320	Don't talk about things you don't know! You come intern with me.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0191par0321	Please... please... Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0322	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, I assume you're responsible for not hearing.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0186par0323	Let me give you some information. Let me teach you some information!
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0191par0324	Please, take your seat.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0325	Mr. President is insulting the Speakership, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0191par0326	Please take your seat.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0192par0327	Don't talk about things you don't know.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0328	He's insulting the Speakership.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0192par0329	I mean, I want the first word there, so let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0330	Mr. President, continue the procedure.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0192par0331	I want the first word, you're giving it to someone else because the AKP Group is uncomfortable with my speech. I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0193par0332	I'm sorry, but if you talk like that... we didn't promise you anything.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0190par0333	Mr. President, proceed with the procedure, sir.
tbmm-2011-10-11sit02spe0193par0334	Now, sir, we will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's government and the Iranian Islamic Republic's government between Kapaköy and Razi Kara Border Gate Joint Use of Controversial Controversies Act and Foreign Commission Report. [[Continue]] Commission? No. Government? No. It's been postponed. Since the next talks have shown that the Commission is absent, it is 15 o'clock on Wednesday (October 12th 2011) to discuss verbal questions proposals and proposals to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
