tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 21st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes, the speakers' five minutes. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Sitkuk Güvenç, who wants to mention November 22nd Day of the World Dentists. Here you go, Mr. Truster. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have taken an off-the-book commitment due to November 22nd Dentist Day and the week we're in is Mouth and Dental Health Week. I'd like to start by paying my respects. The practice of dentistry, as with many professions, dates back to ancient times. The history of dentistry is almost as old as human history, no doubt due to the importance of oral and dental health. In addition to aesthetics, funding, and chewing functions of teeth, it also has a very important role in overall health protection, because health begins in the mouth. The defect of the mouth and teeth, which are the entrance to our body, becomes a focus of infection, affects not only the mouth, but the whole body. The breath of the mouth prevents you from being social, it disturbs the people across the street. It also causes many systemic disorders - joints, kidneys, and heart problems. For a quality of life as a society, we must be concerned about oral and dental health. The most important priority in the life of all mankind is to maintain health and health. Dental disease can be prevented, controlled, and treatable by behavior, and disease can be prevented from forming, with measures to be taken. For healthier generations, training our children and young ones and even setting a positive example of social responsibility is one of our most important tasks. Toothbrushing, flossing, organizing nutritional habits, providing regular dental habits are extremely important for dental hygiene. It is extremely important to brush effective teeth in the morning and evening, to floss in the teeth to clean interfaces. The baby's teeth are extremely important to the children. The wrong idea is that baby teeth are unnecessary. The milk teeth are also guided by chewing functions that will constantly come out from under them. Therefore, it must and must be preserved in the mouth until the teeth come out from under it. Like all over the world, dentistry is growing rapidly both scientifically and technologically in our country. Previously, dental care has become a separate chief of medicine in public hospitals, while dental care has been provided as well as oral dental care, while our Ministry of Health has expanded oral dental care. With the spread of oral dental centers, dental care has been increased, and at the same time, therapeutic and protective health care has been accelerated, improved, and spread. In the past, the USSR and the green card can't get dental prosthetics and canal treatments, but new regulations have allowed everyone under social security to get all kinds of dental care. In the words of a member of parliament, they try not to be let go. It is important to reduce the intensity of oral dental care and to receive private services for free-working dentists. In our talks with our Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Security, private services are welcome. We hope this issue will be resolved at this time, given the approval of the Turkish Medical Association. In ADSM, each physician receives a dental fee, and working environments are improved. With the opening of schools, fluorine practice in the first and second classes is presented to each student with oral and dental training and toothbrushes. The Flor application has been facilitated by incorporating ADSM into performance applications. These are of utmost importance to protective medicine. If home care has been initiated, needs are needed, if they can't come to oral and dental centers, prosthetics and fillings have been started at home. The ADSMs provide 24-hour oral and dental care with post-work clinics and night shifts. Patients are no longer charged for metal casting. These practices are extremely important in the development of oral and dental health, but in addition to therapeutic services, it is very important to develop protective medicine and create a public consciousness, awareness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I, with these feelings, honor the day of dentists and dentists of all dentists who we work with under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, celebrate and pay tribute.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Trust, your time is up, sir. Thank you very much. The second non-responsive statement belongs to our Elazig MP, Enver Erdem, who wants to speak about the problems of Elazig Province. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to address the issues of Elazig Province. The province of Elazig has come from the past to the present as an important centre. Both commercially and socioeconomically, Elazig has always been an important attraction in the region. In the 1960s, during the 1970s, during the history of the republic, many factories were built in Elazig, almost all regional institutions were established in Elazig. Elazig has started to lose a great deal of its current achievements in recent years. Current factories are either shut down through privatisation or disabled through privatisation. However, the district administrations were not established in Elazığ, and the establishments were somehow closed down. According to state planning agency data, our province ranked 32°th in 2002, while in 2010 it was ranked 46. Again, in 1995, according to the State Planning Agency estimates, the population, which was supposed to be 750k in 2010, was unfortunately left at 550,000. So our Elazig province has become a largely migratory province. According to the Exporters' Assembly report, exports have been reduced by 50 per cent during this period. In recent years, Elizıg was ranked number 64 in the first of their training. Almost none of the newly established regional organisations have been established in Elazıg. State Railway Regional Directorate, State Statistical Institution, Foundations Regional Directorate, Development Agency, and Discriminal Courts have not been established in Elazıg. In recent years, Elazig has been sort of abandoned to its destiny. Elızýğ is having serious problems. They have expectations about being a city, they have earthquakes, they have problems with unemployment, they have problems with education, they have problems with the University of Firat, they have problems with investments and funds, they have problems with the villagers and the farmers. In this context, the Kuzova Watering Project, which has been under way for 20 years in Elazığ, has not yet been implemented; the Uluova Watering Project has been completely disabled by cutting power to the Eyupbags Watering Association. The Elizig Candy Factory is now in the process of shutting down. Today, the Sugar Factory, which has been assessed under privatisation, as you all know, will soon be privatized and then shut down. Approximately 550 employees are employed, and the factory's annual operating damage is $5 million. Instead of closing this factory, which directly or indirectly concerns 60,000 people and contributes to the 75 million-dollar-a-year economy, however, it is important that its privatisation be immediately halted, expanded its capacity, enhanced by technical personnel and given the use of the region's people as technology. Dear MPs, the Department of Meteorology, which has been in Elazığ for 32 years, has been shut down. Here is the son of one of our former ministers, Ali Riza Septioğlu, who was also among you and was made a memory of him. It is also important that this Regional Directorate does not be closed in Elazıg, because it is important that it is in the infrastructure, in its direction, in the direction of its building, strategically among the 15 district managerships which will be opened in Elazig. Some projects remain in hand, one of which is the Bridge of the Network. It started in 2002, but over the past nine years...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0005par0044	Your Grace, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0004par0045	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0005par0047	The third unscheduled statement is from İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, who asked for the appointment of 22 November World Dentist Day. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0006par0051	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, today is the 25th year of the foundation of our union of Turkish Dentists. In addition, November 22nd week of the Istanbul Faculty of Dental Medicine, founded a hundred and three years ago, is celebrated as the week of Mouth and Dental Health. The word "congratulation" may seem strange, given the practical conditions of our profession and the problems of our people's mouth, dental care, but the organizations of dentists' components are another system, because health is an indispensable phenomenon, and they never give up hope. During the week, our colleagues continue to voice their continued problems and solution proposals from all sides of Turkey on a more intense agenda. There has been a rapid process in the field of dentistry in recent years. During these arrangements in the field of health care, healthcare units and their bases have been criticised by different negative reviews of their public gatherings, which are filled with thousands of people, whose opinions have not been considered, their proposals not taken into consideration. As you know, oral dental health is an integral part of general health. Health begins in the mouth. In our country, tooth and tooth problems include 75 percent of the population. Dental and dental disease, which initially causes heart and vascular disease, high risk, and many other diseases, is considered preventable by preventive medicine. The struggle to improve the oral and dental health of the Turkish Dentist Corps since its establishment is an inextricable part of these demands. In this public struggle, the practice must be used as well as the public. Buying services from freelance dentists will ensure that this struggle is sustainable. The public's oral and dental centers, which should provide intensive service to protective dentistry, age 0-18, over sixty-five years old, and mental and physical disabled, have turned to unfair competition with 17,000 free-working dentists, only to treatment and aesthetic prothesis without an example in the world. Free-working dentists, who cost our country and their families a great deal of economic cost, are increasingly struggling with unemployment. A national wealth of practice is being thrown out. Modern countries do not just determine the planning of manpower based on population. The criteria, such as the needs of society, the demand for service, the course of disease, and the variety of diseases, are also considered. I regret to inform you that with no infrastructure, new schools that have been opened with populism are too much for the need, and the work of physicians is becoming increasingly worthless. Our colleagues, forced to work in the public, are underpaid and labored by a low performance system, with low equity rights, 4/B. Education in the faculty has become more and more business. The members of the teaching have been thrown before the community, and they have been scattered between layers. The quality of education is getting smaller in our schools. Public health care institutions are being created into businesses based on profit. Prepares are being made to be transferred to large capital. Instead of a qualified service, profit accents are so prominent that our fellow technicians at the prosthetic labs, which won the tenders for open reductions, are suffering from slicosis from overwork. Many labs suffer unemployment, unemployment increases. Members of parliament, in our country, the share of health care is around 10 per cent. Only 2% of this share is reserved for oral dental care. Here, I take your attention, 2% of the 10 percent are reserved for oral dental care. In our country, the frequency of going to a dentist is 0.9 per cent, while in EU countries, 5 per cent, so it exceeds 5 times that. Toothpaste and brush use are also high at the same rate. Our problems don't stop counting. Instead of resolving problems in dialogue with professional troops, the government has imposed new restrictions on the powers of the troops, in accordance with the legislation issued by parliament when it is open. I celebrate today on behalf of my valued colleagues, who, despite all negatives, have all the ethical values of their profession, and on behalf of the fight that my professional organization, which I have served for many years, will continue tirelessly, and end my commitment by saying that with the right investments in dental health, a better dental policy is possible. Dear lawmakers, after having this conversation about my profession, I regret to inform you that perhaps my friends may not have a say in the matter of the raid on the city of İzmir at six o'clock in the morning, on behalf of our group. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0007par0065	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear lawmakers, with the evaluation of 59 and 60, we have friends who want to speak according to Article 60, I can't promise them. So let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The MPs, Mr. Ömer Dinçer, Minister of National Education, wanted to answer questions on the agenda of the agenda, including 1, 20, 21, 33, 41, 45, 53, 53, 83, 85, 92, 93, 95, 103, 155, 156, 160, 167, 189, 194, 201, 260. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. Now, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the Islamic Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Foreign Politics and National Security Commission, as guests of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was granted a formal visit to our country from November 16th to November 19, 2011, with the presidential Court's decree November 14, 2011 and 9th. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the General Assembly's information on the matter. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly With a delegation, TBM Foreign Commission President Volcano Bozkır received an invitation from the Italian Senate Foreign Affairs and Migration Commission to visit Italy on November 10, 2011, and was adopted in the General Assembly's merger of November 10, 2011 and 17th. Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly The names the political party groups have reported to form the delegation in accordance with the clause are presented to the General Assembly's information. Volcano Bozır Ahmet Berat Çonkar == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Congressmans, Diyarbakır 7. Diyarbakır MP Şerafettin Elçi has been notified of the second article of Article 83 of the Constitution, which has been filed against the People's Court on 31/10/2011 and 2011/249. It's for your information. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0008par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0007par0099	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0008par0100	You have just stated that you do not approve of the requirements for the 60th Amendment. And as a reason, when you interpreted the 59th and 60th articles of the Civil Code together, you stated that such a result had arisen. We were gathered last week as group presidents of all political party groups in the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We have discussed how these talks, which are being held within the framework of Article 60, could be made in the context of what our lawmakers in groups need to say, and we have concluded that because this is the new Turkish Parliamentary Assembly, because the parliamentary era has just begun, we have come to a conclusion that the need for our MPs to make promises may be too much, but in the future, it will be in line with the purpose of the matter in the Interior Chart. For now, we have come to an opinion that it will be unnecessary to limit this issue. More or less the political party groups, except maybe the ruling party, we met at that point. Now, you said you don't promise according to Article 60. For example, I would like to make a statement on this subject according to Article 60. I need a speech expressing the feelings of the Republican People's Party Group because of the death of the filmmaker Omar Lütfi Akkad, but suddenly you cut those rights and went on the agenda. I don't think that's true, sir. We're asking for the rights of speech.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0009par0104	Thank you. Now, as a result of our meeting at the meeting of the Presidential Court -- four Vice Presidents and Mr. Speakers -- the decision was also focused on this, and I believe there are three others, except for one of our friends -- the decision was made not to be given in accordance with the statement of the 60th article, and in particular 59. Then our other friend went along with it. This didn't happen in our practice, and then a friend of ours gave it to us, and if you notice last week, our friend who ran it, with a comment that I said, "The 60th article can't be so broad," and in cases that it's necessary to give information to the Parliament, it's already been given a time limit of five minutes, and that's not an answer to a question, and that's how I interpret it. We're prepared to act according to the decision of the Speakership or the groups if we're informed of such a decision, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0010par0107	There is a decision.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0011par0108	Now, Mr. President, Article 60 arranges the president's commitment to a member who has a very short request for a word. Now, he's entitled to a commendation, and there's a clause that regulates a very short request of words as a right. Now, I'm not going to let you use this right without considering any of these demands. It doesn't suit the purpose of the 60th Amendment. That's the first one. Secondly, a meeting that aims to seek consensus among groups headed by the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not in line with the traditions of this Assembly, which is that when we speak to Mr. President that day, the climate emerges after the budget, and the demands are reduced. Of course, the 60th article does not regulate a right to be used for question-and-answer purposes. It's a clause that allows our friends, who are demanding word to contribute to their parliamentary work, to express their words. This clause is used from time to time by ruling, opposition, all political party groups. It is the day of salvation, the day of salvation, the day of one's death, the day of martyrs, the day of death. There's nothing more natural than the groups expressing their views on the matter. Mr. President, that's why I'm the 60th...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0012par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, I'm reading the 59th article once again: "The president has the right to give his word in an extraordinary hurry to be announced to the General Assembly of Parliament. " ..in extreme haste.... be careful, I've listened to you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0011par0112	This isn't about 59, sir. It's about 60.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0012par0113	When you do the same thing directly to 60, it expands the contents of the 60th article. In the 60th article, when any subject is discussed, when our friends are discussed, they may want to speak according to 60, and we evaluate it, but we are increasingly adding something in the 60th article, which is five minutes each, five minutes at a time of extreme necessity. Such an app does not exist in the past. So that's my appreciation, and I apologize. If a decision comes to us from the Speakership, we will, of course, obey him and respect the will of our groups. But there's nothing I can do right now, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0011par0115	Mr. President, if you continue to behave like this, I'm sorry to have to argue about your attitude.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0012par0116	You will, sir, of course, off the agenda...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0011par0117	If you'd like to take a break, let's consider the matter, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0012par0118	No, sir, I apologize. You can open it, please.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0011par0120	Then I want a word against your attitude.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0013par0121	Lehte...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0014par0122	I want it against you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0015par0123	Here's to our friend who's in favor first. Mr. Canikli, please. Your time is three minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0016par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. As all of you have followed, a very different practice has begun to come up in the last few days regarding the requests under Article 60 of the Civil Code. As our Deputy President has just stated, in very urgent situations, this arrangement, thought of as a channel to be briefed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in very special cases, has opened up a very unusual and urgent way of discussing this arrangement, and has been transformed into a very lengthy question-answer mechanism, and there is absolutely no such application of the 60th article in past applications.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0017par0131	Mr. President, I want word in favor.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0018par0132	Mr. President, I want a word against you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0016par0133	The 60th article of the Civil Charter is not in the past to be promised in the form of a minute in practice, as a brief statement to the MP who asked for the location. In recent months, this has begun to be used in a way that has never been thought or predicted in the Civil Code, except for its purpose, and, of course, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has begun to have a negative effect on its work. I mean, we definitely don't want him to get out of here, so let him talk as much as he wants, we don't have any objections to him as the AK PARTY Group, but of course, there are rules, there are procedures, we have the Civil Code, we need him in this frame. I mean, a system without rules is unthinkable, and the text with the rules we have to follow is our Civil Code. Therefore, no doubt we must follow the procedure of this, whatever method has been set up there. In almost all of the situations that Mr. Hamzacebi has just said, we're already having private talks and conversations with the group's joint participation. I mean, you know, God forbid, when it comes to our martyrs or something like that, very unusual, special, it's already being spoken for in groups.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0019par0135	No, it won't be done anymore.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0016par0136	I mean, we're talking amongst ourselves, we're agreeing, we're reporting to the presidency, and in this frame, we have the opportunity, the opportunity, to express our meanings as much as we want. So, in a way, to break the rules... which, of course, is a good intention, to share a thought, an opinion, within the scope of the 60th Amendment, but it's starting to come to a point where it's far beyond what the Interior Charter says, and more and more. Each day is increasing, and sometimes 30 - 40 speakers or even more speakers try to express their meaning from where they sit, taking the words from here within the scope of the 60th article. It's not a system, guys. I mean, when we're outstripping any rule, we start violating it, we can't get ahead of it, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Such violations can bring up other violations. So Mr. President's attitude is correct, it's appropriate. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0020par0142	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Hamzacebi, here it is, against you. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0021par0146	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Mr. President, stated that when we interpreted the 59th and 60th articles of the Civil Code together, it was not possible for him to make a commitment based on Article 60, the 60th article has made an amendment to the continuation of matters in Article 59. I certainly don't agree with the president's opinion. Article 59 arranges non-responsive speech and organises the government's extracurricular talks here in extraordinary situations. Note the first joke of Article 59: "In an extraordinary hurry to announce to the General Assembly, three people can be promised out of the agenda by the president's discretion. I have been in Parliament for nine years, nine years every day, except on exceptional days, three people speak out of the agenda. What does the item say? What is extraordinary, dear friends, as long as it is limited to extraordinary circumstances that are required to be announced to the General Assembly of Parliament? But there's a tradition that goes on and on. The second joke of matter is the government's speech here in extraordinary circumstances. Subsequently, the 60th article may be associated with 59, 59 other frames, but the 60th article contains an arrangement regarding our friends who are demanding word of speech on the agenda of the Assembly. The Speaker can promise the member that he has a brief request for a word. It's a very short request for words. It's meant to contribute to the work of Congress. It sits in a tradition over time, there are extraordinary days, there are events, there are deaths, there are deaths, there are anniversaries, so groups, MPs, they have a say, they have a speech not to go past a minute. It's an established tradition. How the first joke of 59 is limited to extraordinary circumstances, but it's one thing to have three people speak out of the agenda, to all who demand it, or rather, three people who are here off the agenda, so the other one is sitting down. Yes, Parliament, Parliament is new, and now our new friends are demanding a lot of words, but I think it's natural. This will sit in time, it will sit in its place, and I find it against democracy to say it from the beginning, and when we sat down as political party groups as chairman of the Parliament, we agreed on an arrangement that allowed Mr. President to implement it. This is also against the will of the Speaker. Mr. President, we're against your attitude, and I don't think that's true. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0022par0150	Thank you. I have to tell you this. Last week, this practice was done the way I did, Mr. Hamzacebi, and I want you to know that. Mr. Ahmet Aydın, second speaker in the Polish language, Adıyaman. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0023par0155	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the position of the Presidential Court has been made in favour of you, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, this is the first day that Parliament's 24th Year of the Second Legislature began today -- in fact, it was a long time ago -- that we accepted it as a true -- and it was also shown to our Interior Charter, and it was imposed as an exceptional sentence -- unfortunately this year, there was a lot of violations, a lot of abuse, from the beginning of this year of law. A right must be used in good faith. Honesty rules are universal laws, and we all have to obey them. Besides, he mentioned tradition, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, yes, such a tradition had already been established in the past period and the previous period. In very exceptional and very special cases, our friends were making such a statement on special occasions to take a brief statement, but to use it as a form of abuse to disrupt the work of 40, 50, 60 people, and to be asked questions to the ministers rather than just to explain them, to be insulted. The Civil Code is open, folks. The Civil Code is the constitution that we all abide by during this General Assembly's work, and we all have to adhere to these rules, and it's already a matter of the opinion of the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. It's in the President's discretion that special times happen when there's a special occasion. It also says: "The president can give the member permission to speak at his place, which he has a very short saying. " He does not say "Verir" or "must give." And that, dear friends, please, has been abused a lot, we are now living in the Year of the Second Legislature, and in the future, what you are, is going to come up with important plans, there will be offers, there will be offers, there will be a lot of things on our people's agenda, and we as a ruling group are trying to do what we can to do to run this Parliament. It's not just our responsibility, it's yours. The government, the opposition, we all need to run this Parliament in the best possible way, work here in a way worthy of our people, and we all need to work out the issues of our people on the agenda here. Here, in bilateral dialogue... we pay attention there, most of the time, even without asking for a word, standing up, teasing, coming all the way here, walking... Please, friends, style is very important, style is very important, and we all have to continue to work on this style, this style, and this Civil Code, and in that sense, I, in favor of the position of president, to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0024par0162	Thank you. Second word against Sırrıyya Önder, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0025par0165	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. The statement is human with the same statement. It is true what the Speaker of the EC PARTY said. E, the statement is the same, but it mentions that this mechanism is not being used honestly, and its members are using the bench in an dishonest way. If we could just ask them to explain. When we think of the dishonest method, we remember the MPs who were taken away from this bench in our close memory. Other than that, members, you may not know this, but this right to talk is called democracy. It may not fit your point of view, but it's not your group hall, it's the seat of the general public. You said it was more comfortable last year. Well, didn't it ever occur to you that last year, televisions were giving these sessions the way they were? This year, one voice outside of power, oh, God willing, you've restricted the televisions so there wouldn't be another sound, you've blocked the broadcasts of the commissions, you've limited the voice of the opposition as a whole. Now you've come to think of that, to introduce the 59th article to 60. As far as you're concerned, there's nothing in the Civil Code that can stop you from taking someone else's place by doing a flip on any substance, but there's also a spirit to these things. What is to be based on your soul as a place of the will of the people is democracy. The inevitability of democracy -- perhaps you should write it here, you forget too often -- is opposition. I'm going to continue, forgive the language, but you need this, for the opposition to express the inevitable. Even if you don't like it, they call it democracy. You're not used to it, and you don't seem to get used to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0026par0170	Thank you. Mr. Shandir, two minutes from your position, please.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0027par0172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, no one should support the abuse of a right. As the National Movement Party Group, we would like to ask the Parliamentary General Assembly to work in an orderly fashion. I have also expressed that the use of 60 ▪ has lost its measure, and I have expressed it. But, dear President, dear fellow lawmakers, we're here to talk. We call what we do a combination, we are here to discuss a matter together, and we are here to sit down and negotiate. It would be wrong for him to be afraid of the MPs' speech. Let the MPs talk; let's make common sense together. No abuse, but talk. It's called the "democracy." Of course, by saying different things, maybe that's how we'll find the truth. For him, we've expressed the use of 60. We've expressed it at the meeting we've had with the Speaker, but it must be arranged. Therefore, I don't think it's right that you started a procedure today without expressing it or expressing it properly. Such a rule, unfortunately, is the abuse of a right to make rules, so the ruling party group, with its numerical majority, can make all the rules. It's not like that; by setting a reasonable, acceptable, balanced rule, we should even encourage the congressman's speech so that we can create common sense here, we can do our duty to the nation. I demand and respect for myself and my group the use of 60 ▪ in a measured manner. And thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0028par0180	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0029par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0028par0182	Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0029par0183	Mr. President, can you turn on the microphone?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0028par0184	What do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0029par0185	I have a brief request.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0028par0186	Two minutes, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0029par0188	Mr. President, I don't think your assessment of Article 59 and 60 is absolutely correct. The theme of Article 59 is that the spirit of 59 is completely different from the spirit of 60. You're trying to add two independent substances to each other, and you're trying to make a special comment on the two of them, but that's not true. I think what you're doing, Mr. President, is you're trying to shut up the opposition in a shortcut and a shortcut. An opposition MP's comment also stated: "Avert abuse of rights." But if the abuse of rights, the use of democratic rights in this Parliament is considered abuse, I'd like to remind you how he abused the rights and duties of an executive officer on the stand a week or ten days ago. In this regard, I think your assessment of 59 and 60 is against the law, and you can clearly tell us that the 60th article, especially when it comes to the use of the right of appreciation in the 60th article -- why don't you say it, and why don't you say it -- you might say: I use my right of appreciation in this way. And you're not saying that, Mr. President, you're saying that I'm thinking about 59 and 60, and that's exactly how I'm commenting. It's certainly not legal. I wanted to remind you of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0030par0193	Thank you. Let me make this clear right away: We are the ones who argue that the 59th article should not be mixed with the 60th article. I mean, there's no such thing as taking a moment's notice in Article 59, Mr. President. So, he talks about non-responsive substances, the 59th article, but he always wants to speak according to the value of the 59th article, the precious lawmakers. This is how we will always use our right of appreciation in making promises according to 60. I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0031par0195	Use it for democracy!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0030par0196	At another time, we give it to lawmakers who want a word based on 60, but the final applications show that after 59, there is no mention of it at 59, there is no mention of it in the 60th article. We didn't mix it up. It's the same. Second: This was applied here last week, and for the same reasons -- our friend read it -- he didn't give anyone an additional minute, according to 59. Therefore, I feel that my attitude is in accordance with the Civil Law, so we continue. Congressmans, there are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Shortly after the release of the S.E.S. results in 2011, students who have succeeded in the examination and have earned the right to place are sought by people they don't know and are trying to convince them to prefer a number of private student dorms in terms of housing. A. The privacy of private life Article 20 - Everyone has the right to ask that their privacy and family life be respected. The privacy of your personal life and family life is untouchable. [[Multiple sentences: 3/10/2001-4709/5 md.]] (Change: 3/10/2001-4709/5 md.) The national security, public order, prevention of crime, protection of general health and general morality, or protection of the rights and freedoms of others, depending on one or a number of other reasons, unless there is a written order of the law-appointed authority, which is still a problem in its delay due to these reasons, no one can be searched or confiscated. The decision of the authority will be submitted to the judge in 24 hours. The judge will announce his decision within 48 hours of confiscation, otherwise the seizure itself will be lifted. (Episode 12/9/2010-5982/2 md.) Everyone has the right to ask for the protection of personal data about themselves. This right also includes information about personal data related to the individual, accessing these data, demanding that they be corrected or deleted, and learning whether they are used for their purposes. Personal data can only be processed in the cases prescribed by the law or by open consent of the person. The fundamental and methodical protection of personal data is regulated by law. The Right to Information Act No. 4982 Article 21 - Information or documents that will create an unfair intervention in a person's privacy and family life, honor and dignity, professional and economic values, are within the scope of the privacy of private life, in which circumstances are permitted to remain hidden. In the cases required by public benefit, personal information or documents can be explained by institutions and organisations on condition of being given written consent by the person concerned at least seven days in advance." In our current legal legislation, the most important legal regulations concerning the protection of personal data are listed above. According to these regulations, information or documents under the confidentiality of private life, such as information or information, which, at the same time, will cause unfair interference in a person's personal and family life, honor and dignity, and professional and economic values. Again, according to our constitution, personal information is guaranteed by the state, and these information and freedoms cannot be interfered with unless there are reasons written in public order and constitution and laws and without a judge's decision. The examinations organised by the CSI and any procedure to be conducted based on these tests are primarily protected by the state. These protection examinations include all kinds of information in these documents, as well as all kinds of paperwork on placement. Students who will take the exam will remain confidential and third. They write their most personal information on examination forms and relevant documents with the assurance that individuals will not receive it. The fact that all of this information is under legal protection of the state, and it's obvious that after it's announced the results of the deployment across the country, students can be called by people who give the impression that they belong to a certain congregation, the phone numbers of students, and the parts they've won before students can be reached. The third unsupervised student's personal information. To find out how individuals got their hands on this information, whether it was used in other areas than this, the Constitution is 98th; the Constitution is 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Manisa]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 7) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] 15) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There have been many problems with transportation in Istanbul for a long time. In recent years, however, traffic has become impossible and has become a serious problem for our citizens living in Istanbul. A 45-minute traffic jam costs Istanbul over $2 billion a year. Unplanned and riveting insights seem to condense the city day after day. Traffic density in Istanbul is due to the taste of plans, despite the negative opinion of the relevant institutions and shootings. Istanbul is being slaughtered with the taste of this plan. As long as Rant access policies continue, transportation will be a problem. An understanding that opens up green areas, permits multi-story buildings across Istanbul, creating huge shopping malls all over the city can't solve problems in traffic. Because this understanding itself is the source of the problems in traffic. So far, various solutions have been offered to solve traffic problems. These are proposals such as visa application, one-two plates, a pay-per-view transfer to Rim. But none of these are measures to reduce the intensity of traffic. It's known for its advanced city squares. In Istanbul, the existing squares are sacrificed for the runt. In an effort to determine issues and measures to be taken in Istanbul, the Constitution is 98. And 104 of Turkey's Parliamentary Council of the National Assembly. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental inquiry. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Salt Lake is the second most salty lake in the world, with a 32.9% salt ratio from Lake Lut in the inner Anatolia region, where the borders of Ankara, Konya and Aksaray counties cross. Since 1915, academic research has indicated that 85 per cent reduction has occurred at Salt Lake and that the Salt Lake will face total extinction in 2015. It is known that important work has been done in the field by the President of the Special Environment Protection Agency (ECHKB) and the protection of the step habitats. 1) To determine the extent to which the protection measures for key habitats and species protections have been achieved as a result of these studies and to address the shortcomings, 2) Increasing efforts to prevent loss of water, habitat and species in Salt Lake, 3) Identifying the number of escaped wells available by the DSI, 4) The work needed by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism to promote modern techniques such as the transition to the low-fat product pattern and drop-watering, in special fragile areas such as the ESCB, 5) According to the terms of the contract with Tuzla enterprises under the Prime Ministerial Privatisation Administration, the public is informed whether or not the clauses containing the decision and measures to maintain the ecological balance of this area are added to the contract in the process of privatisation of salts in the naturally special Salt Lake Basin basin. 6) Investigating the latest situation in the industrial waste project for household waste and heavy metals launched by the Iconian Metropolitan Municipality on the integration of wastewater into the Salt Lake, For the purpose of our Constitution, 98. Article 104 of our Civil Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. 02/08/2011 Yours truly. Salt Lake 1st in 1992. Degree Natural Site was declared "Salt Lake Environmental Protection Zone" in 2000, which was 7.414 square miles [7.414 km] by the Council of Ministers' decision. It's the largest Special Environmental Protection Zone in our country. According to the RAMSAR Convention, Salt Lake, a class A wetlands candidate, is one of the most important natural areas in the world with endemic plants and animals. It hosts thousands of pairs of flamingos each year. The Salt Lake, which houses Turkey's largest natural saltscul step area, meets about 60% of Turkey's salt supply. The Salt Lake faces significant threats as a result of the government's wrong policies and negligence. In what researchers describe as "Salt Lake to Salt Desert," the threats are as follows: 1) The lake field and the salty step swamps have decreased by about 40% in the last 30 years 2) A rapid decline in subterranean and above-ground water reserves 3) Escaped wells [[About 20,000 of them.]] 4) Heavy sugar beets production 5) The prevalence of traditional irrigation techniques 6) Mixed with salt and fresh water 7) Opening step and mera fields to agriculture 8) Salt Lake and nearby salts and businesses' attempts to open with new salt 9) Consolidating the channel carrying wastewater and threatening salt production and flamingo breeding sites In an effort to determine the problems of Salt Lake against the threats mentioned above, and to explore the solutions, to maintain management of businesses and to establish legal regulations, our Constitution is 98. Article 104 of our Civil Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Tekirdağ]] 5) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 9) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 16) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, there's a motion for a gene question. The motion has been printed and distributed to the members. The summary of the motion will be read now, since it has more than five hundred words to read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the Journal of Tutorak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the wake of devastating earthquakes in our Van province, in the failure of public resources and capabilities to provide adequate efficiency and coordination for the citizens of our nation's aid, in the delivery and management of public executives related to the earthquake, in the conflicting comments and statements of public officials about the earthquake and the consequences, in the development of confusion, in the development of the security of our citizens in the area of the earthquake, in particular in order to ensure that the loss of their lives by the second earthquake be brought to the citizens, and in the absence of political responsibility of the loss of public administration and due to due to the legal process, we propose that the Prime Minister of Emergency and the Prime Minister of Emergency be granted an additional action on the basis of the 10th Amendment, especially on behalf of the Constitution, and on behalf of the 10 points of the Constitution and on behalf of the Constitution. MHP Group Deputy Chairman of the MHP Group On October 23rd and November 9, 2011, in the quakes in Van, 644 of our citizens lost their lives, thousands of our citizens were injured, buildings were destroyed, our people were left homeless. The events and developments after the Van earthquake increased the cost. "There has been a failure for the first 24 hours," the prime minister said, referring to the difficulties caused by the first earthquake in Van. After the earthquake, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar said, "As of today, Van and Ercish are the most reliable at the angle of the earthquake." In the second earthquake following the declaration that "prelimal damage studies have been completed at 95 per cent, that the main goal of preliminary damage detection is to identify heavily damaged buildings and houses that cannot be entered, to determine the need for tents," people have lost their lives this time after the second earthquake "our citizens may enter low-damaged homes." On October 26, 2011, the governor of Van said on TV: "Look, all the hotels in the city are occupied. We can't find a place. The press from out of town, usually due to the earthquake, stays with research rescue teams. They have no worries. They enter buildings and live in 7-8-story hotels." Two weeks after their announcements, the "7-8 stories" hotels mentioned by the governor were destroyed as a result of a 5.6-year-old earthquake, and 40 of our citizens were killed. (x) (11/5) is included in the full text of the main number of Gensoru Prescription. In the Van earthquake, there have been inadequacies in the supply of tents needed for temporary housing, lack of coordination in distribution of benefits. Still, lacks in distribution of these benefits have not been provided for the needs of such aid, as is on the agenda of the media and the citizen. Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay has admitted that search and rescue teams have been held to see our own potential. Mr. Atalay at the TBMM said, "At this time, the homes of the people are not available because it is colder there. He said, "The house of the governor will not be used here, but he was later seen in this region that his homes were established and that the President visited them. The second earthquake occurred on November 9, 2011, after the report of the Van Earthquake, released by AFAD, November 3, and November 5, 2011, when the Van Earthquake Reports said that preliminary damage detection had been completed, and the homes and hotels were destroyed and lost. Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar said on November 15, 2011, "We didn't say, "Don't enter those buildings, we didn't say, don't enter them." That's what he said. "We, of course, will run the legal process here. No matter who it is, whether it's from the university community or the AFAD, we'll start the legal process on these things, whoever gave you something that could be sitting here." "For those who have been neglected, there will be an administrative and criminal account." In addition to the fact that the Prime Minister's statement should, in fact, be carried out by prosecutors on their own as part of the mission, it must be completed politically, as well as by Mr. Prime Minister's commitment to accountability from those responsible. In this regard, it is the duty of democracy and law to answer to those who have parallel political responsibility for the legal process that preceded the Van earthquake. 61. "In the government, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay is responsible for the Presidency of the Disaster and Emergency Management. Clearly, the deputy prime minister in charge of disaster and emergency and coordination in the Van earthquake has political responsibility. In the wake of devastating earthquakes in our Van province, the public's ability and ability to provide adequate efficiency and coordination in providing our nation's aid to citizens, the public administration and administration of the earthquake are responsible for the political responsibility of the Van earthquake and its results in conflicting comments and statements of public officials, the reduction of the confidence of our citizens in the area of the earthquake, especially the loss of lives in the second earthquake, and the loss of public officials due to the loss of their lives, and due to the lack of political responsibility of their administrative and legal process, in the development of the Van earthquake and in the emergence of the Prime Minister of Emergency Management, the Constitution of the Prime Minister of Emergency and the Prime Minister of Emergency and the Constitution has been given the basis of the 10th Amendment in the 10th Amendment and the Constitution. Congressmans, you have been briefed on the gene question. The day of the motion's meeting will be determined later by the Council of Counsellors, which will be put to your votes. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A parliamentary delegation of members of the TBM Foreign Commission is scheduled to make an official visit to Germany at the invitation of President of the Foreign Affairs Committee of Germany, Ruprecht POLENZ. The parliamentary delegation's visit to Germany is the 6th edition of the 3620th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the General Assembly's approval.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0032par0422	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit01spe0030par0423	I'm going to put the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to ask you to make a decision, and I'm going to ask for the number: those who agree, those who don't. There's not enough to decide, so I'll take a five-minute break.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 21st Union of the Grand National Assembly. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted, there's enough to decide. Congressmans, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, under Article 19 of the Institution. On 17 October 2011, the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to determine the events in the Karliova District of Bingol, was proposed by Bingal MP İdris Bauken and his friends (87 rows) to be read and held in the same session of Tuesday's session, before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Congressmans, I will make a promise to two people in favor and against the group's proposal. The first word is Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0033par0019	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion to investigate the grave events in the district of Karliova, Bingol Province, in July 2011. I'd like to begin by welcoming your committee. First, I'd like to give you some information about the events that took place on July 28, 2011 in Karliova. On that day, in the centre of Karlıova district, we know that the ranger Hadji Alan, from the village rangers of Taşlıçay, died by an unidentified gunman, and that afterwards, the guards of the village of Taşlıçay met together to create a total terror in the district of Karlıova, along with the relatives of Hadji Alan. I was out of the province on account of a schedule that day, and we met with Mr. Hakan Güvençer on the phone call from Karliova district. During our meeting with the Governor of Bingöl, Governor has stated that all of the district's streets and exits have been blocked by police and there is no problem. In the same way, we delivered the situation to the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Interior through our Group Vice President, and he said that the situation is under control. We, of course, wanted to have confidence that after we received such assurance from these officials of the state, there would be no more serious incidents, but we were told that five minutes after these phone calls from the headquarters of Karliova County, homes and workplaces were being set on fire at Karliova County headquarters, people were at risk by random crossfires in the streets, people's lives and property security was threatened by the Peace and Democracy Party's borough agency and the Karliova County President's homes. After this reported phone call, we interrupted our program and returned to the province of Bingol, and in our investigations that we had done, we learned that the village of BDP had been completely destroyed by the fire by the fire of the BDP party building, that Mr. Shemsettin Özen's house had been completely destroyed, and that municipal employees had been held hostage for four or five hours during the day. In the same way, we found that the Paris Clothing Center, which had nothing to do with our party, was set on fire in the middle of the market, that it was destroyed by weapons, and that it was attacked by the automatic crossfire when women and children were inside, while our councilman Nevzat Azak was inside with a gun. I just want to show you pictures of Paris Clothing Center, which had nothing to do with our party, in order to show you the critical extent of the attack. My dear friends, dear lawmakers, there's been a fire at this workplace for four hours, and there are fire crews who want to intervene. These fire brigades are being blocked by police teams, and in the grim picture, a business is completely incinerated. I'd like to present to you here a picture of his house after the fire. As this fire continues, the wife and children of our district president are inside, and to save them, residents are forced to make a very intense effort, regardless of security forces. It is a photograph of the house of Nevzat Arak, our councilman. He's been on a crossfire with automatic weapons for exactly five minutes, and there's women and children inside, and there's security forces just six feet away from the rangers who fired the gun. The town's people are telling us that the security forces are taking the security measures necessary to make the guards do their job comfortable. Dear lawmakers said it was an emotional response, that it was necessary to empathize and to convince the rangers, as we spoke to the governor of Bingol during phone calls and then went face-to-face. So an armed crew of 30 people walking around the centre of Karliova County for five hours, firing randomly at workplaces, homes, and street passers, but despite being in the centre of the district of Karliova, the governor of Bingöl Police Director, Karliova Kaymakamam and Karliova County Police Commissioner were unable to calm these incidents. We think there's some kind of involuntary neglect here. Dear lawmakers, the day after the incident, we went back to the District of Karliova with a delegation from our party's headquarters, and this time we stopped by the Public Prosecutor's Office. As of yesterday, as of yesterday, as of the day before, we held talks with the Public Prosecutor to see if we could find the state of law hiding somewhere in Karliova. In the talks that we've had, 36 hours after the incident, we've learned that the Karliova Public Prosecutor did not order a person to be taken into custody, that the country's agenda did not go to the scene of a crime scene, that it did not keep a crime scene identification report, that it did not reach any material of evidence, that it did not apply to any person's testimony. The Public Prosecutor has told us that he expects the police to provide material for us to gather evidence with a weakness of his professional ineptitude, and that CCTV footage has to come in. In our meeting with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the esteemed MPs decided that even after 36 hours, the state of law was still hidden in Karliova, and then we went to meet with the sub-laws. During our meeting with Karliova Kaymakamı, we wanted to have an administrative investigation launched against him, about the rangers involved in the incident, and about police officers who were negligent, an administrative investigation into the police authorities, and we wanted to have the guards' weapons seized until the investigation was over, but in the same way, there was no positive response to our demands by Kaymakam. Look, after what happened that day, those taken into custody were taken into custody by Nevzat Azak, whose house I just showed his picture to have over 30 bullets in it. Umit Öz, owner of Paris Clothing Center Reza Karabağ, Erdal Sayak, Hicran Sayak and Coral Sayak have been taken into custody. A day later, the study of NGOs consisting of IZLUMDER, IHD and bars, and the reflection of these investigations to the public, valued lawmakers, we all watched. No official has ever been taken into custody and there are no rangers. Think of the district of Karliova. A county center is completely under fire for five hours, under crossfires, fires in houses, people's lives and safety is threatened, and there's not a single detention involved. Look, the governor says to empathize, and we want you to empathize. Imagine that this incident took place in Kızılay square in Ankara. Imagine a group of 30 armed men in the Red Moon square terrorizing a square completely, and four months later, there's no detention at all. No one of our citizens has ever been compensated for financial damages. So we are regardless of which party brought this incident here, we are looking for the approval of lawmakers to conduct a research proposal based on logic, on rationality, on common sense. We have friends from the MP, CHP, AKP, who know the area and are sensitive. We believe that if these friends go and examine the events here, the victims of our citizens, and the negligence or intent of these public officials, we will be able to eliminate a significant lack. As I approached these research proposals...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0034par0027	Mr. Baluken, thank you, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0033par0028	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0034par0029	Against the proposal, Eşref Taş, our Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Stone.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0035par0031	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the investigation of Parliament on 17/10/2011 by Mr. Idris Baluken, the Bingol BDP MP, who lost his life in an armed attack by members of the separatist terrorist organization in Karliova district of Bingol province on July 28, 2011. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens. Our district of Karlıova is registered to the village of Taşlıçay, where three children were born in 1969, while Hacı Alan was a temporary village ranger in the village of Taşlıçay, and died in an armed attack carried out on 28/07/2011 by members of an unidentified separatist terrorist organization. My dear friends, Haci Alan, who successfully carried out this mission for 17 years, was shot by a terrorist organization as he walked vulnerable on the busiest street in the centre of Karliova, where he went shopping on 28/07/2011. A few days before the shooting, a PKK member was shot in the village of Hasanova in Karliova district, and the PKK broadcast agency said that the terrorist had been shot by Hadji Alan himself. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that those who come to the centre of Karliova County with guns and shoot a man in the middle of the city who is vulnerable and unarmed will be aided and abetted in order to carry out this incident. Eighteen workplaces, including the mayor's office, have been damaged and have been broken as a part of a house and a workplace, due to the immediate reactionary events following the attack. Several reinforcements have been sent to the district within an hour and a half following the incidents. In order to prevent the incidents that have occurred, a mechanized gendarme commando team has been assigned to the district police department as reinforcements, with the request of the district's subsidiary. After all, three special operations teams of the gendarmes have been deployed from the province's headquarters under the governor's orders. In response to the incidents at the district centre, police riot squads and police special operations have been sent to the district center as reinforcements, and the surrounding provinces have been asked for reinforcements against possible incidents. Following the discovery, the Governor of Bingöl, the 49th Motor Infantry Brigade Commander, the Chief of the State Police and the County Police Director, have arrived in the district by helicopter. After the incident took place, a criminal investigation has been launched by the state's attorney's office and the preparation investigation is under way. Forensic and administrative investigation into the alleged interim village rangers has been launched, but due to the discovery of the legal dimension of the incident, forensic investigation is expected to prevent them from being indicted in advance. After this incident, those whose homes and workplaces have been damaged will be able to file a lawsuit against the anti-law enforcement agencies, which have caused the prosecution to suffer further damage. Dear members of the High Assembly, these people, who have been in the region together for years and have been ruled by fear, have not received any tangible investments or services before the EC PARTY period. With the AK PARTI administration period, these fears have stopped a little bit, and with hope in the region, some exciting investments have begun in the region, while on July 25th, three business machines have been burned down by the company that built the Diyarbakır-Bingöl leg of the highway connecting the south of the country, and one has been stolen and the work has been stopped. However, on August 10th, three of our citizens were kidnapped by a private company's hydropower plant near the village of Dereçay in Karlıova district of Bingley Province, Turkey. Then, on October 1st, terrorists who launched the rapidly ongoing construction of the airport and disabled 18 workers and then set fire to a prefabricated shed and a vehicle with the management offices of the company, also hijacked the workers' cell phones and computers and also undermined the construction of the airport.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0036par0039	What does this have to do with the events in Karliova?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0035par0040	Again, on October 29, 2011, in the live bomb attack in Bingol province...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0036par0041	We're talking about why there were attacks on civilians. You're misleading the House in a different way.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0037par0042	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0038par0043	Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0039par0044	...one of our women and three of our citizens have lost their lives and 21 of our citizens have been injured. In addition, in the last three months, there have been a number of misdemeanor traps that have been narrowed down from multiple abductions and catastrophes. Dear MPs, these actions and attacks targeting the innocent people of Zaza or Kurd who live in the region once again demonstrate that the purpose of the terrorist organization is not the peace, freedom, well-being, security or happiness of the Kurdish people. On the contrary, it is to achieve its own goals using the blood, life, peace of mind of the people of the region, and the rights that have been exploited so far, but our people have never been in this game, they will never come. Congressmans, our people are expecting a new constitution from this great House of Parliament. I believe the new constitution will strengthen our unity and unity, strengthen our brotherhood, reduce death, increase freedom. Dear President, and I salute all the worthy members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with my deepest love and respect.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0040par0049	Thank you, Mr. Stone.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0041par0050	Mr. President, I have a promise to make. My name has been passed and the House has been misinformed. I want to make a correction.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0040par0051	What's wrong with...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0041par0052	I believe the House has been misinformed in connection with the events.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0040par0053	I'll bring it in, sir. If there's a tease, I'll look into it. Now, in favor of the motion, Aytun Çıray, Izmir. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0042par0057	Mr. President, Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0040par0058	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0042par0059	Mr. Orator misinformation using our congressman's name.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0040par0060	So I said, Mr. President, I'll get the transcripts, see if I can get them, and then we'll make a promise. Now, if you'll excuse us.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0042par0061	Okay, look.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0043par0062	The AKP's deputy group president says there is no such application.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0040par0063	There's a lot of practice like this, I don't think you've been here before.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0043par0064	AKP MP Güldal Hanım was troubled by the AKP Group.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0040par0065	Please sit down, please sit down, sir. Listen. Mr. Cherry, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0044par0067	Mr. President, I'd like to discuss Mr. Idris Baluken's motion to discuss the events of Karliova. The congressman is complaining about unlawful conduct based on this motion. Now, the BDP has no right to complain too much about the illegalities today. Of course, before we get to the point, we got another casualty report today. I ask for God's mercy on this martyr, and my condolences and patience on his relatives, the entire Turkish nation. As I was saying, Mr. BDP lawmakers have no right to complain about unlawful conduct here today, because they embezzled the Constitutional amendment of the AKP, which would expose unlawfulness by boycotting themselves, boycotting the 12 September referendum. Look, today we're experiencing the consequences of all these illegalities. Today, Izmir pays the price for saying no to the September 12th constitutional amendment package. We're talking about democracy, we're talking about law, we're going to talk about everything in Congress, and if we can't talk about it here -- you shut us up outside -- where are we going to talk? There were many reasons, but one of them was very important, because this was the main purpose of the package. With their usual predictions, the Izmirians had yet to see the true purpose of the change that everyone now realizes. Turkey and the Turkish nation would face a black sack of lawlessness. What happened everywhere the law was destroyed, after the September 12th referendum, would have been a much heavier and heavier life in our country, which had already been entered into the system of lawlessness, because the purpose of the AKP mentality...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0045par0073	AK PARTY, AK PARTY!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0044par0074	I'm going to say "PARTI" and I'm going to say "I'll see your whiteness," but it's not white!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0046par0075	Not everyone can see!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0044par0076	With these changes, he has made the judiciary a tool for power to use as it pleases. My dear countrymen, the Izmirites, have foreseen the greatest disaster this country has ever seen. Every nation can cope with natural disasters, regardless of the consequences, with national solidarity and mobilization, even with the common feelings of sharing pain, can strengthen its integrity as a nation, but no power in the countries where the judiciary is in the service of power can repair the dissolution created in the souls through generations. That's what the Izmirians saw. They immediately identified their intentions of despotism hidden in the package with their bright eyes. They also noticed which socks would be knitted for Izmir (Izmir) and the Izmirites if this package was approved.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0047par0078	You're insulting people, 60 percent. Don't insult people.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0044par0079	Because Izmir was the only metropolis to draw AKP's charisma. The Izmirians knew very well that they represented Turkey's founding spirit, its open, innovative, its free spirit. In short, Izmir was a representative of civilization and modernity in this land. He had read the lungs of AKP executives and sensed their dark intentions. He predicted that the AKP mentality hated everything that İzmir had represented, and that they would even wear a priest's robe if necessary to get a rematch.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0048par0080	Mr. President, what kind of talk is that? Please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0044par0081	The Izmirans resisted to pay the price.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0048par0082	This is not fit for the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. President, let him take his word back, please. That's no way to talk.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0049par0083	Mr. Cherry, please come to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0044par0084	İzmir's economic veins were sought to be cut off, the values it represents are reduced to the media, which is subservient and in captivity. All of them resisted.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0048par0085	Let him take that back, Mr. President. That's no way to insult me. That's no way to talk, Mr. President. It's a shame!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0049par0087	Mr. Cherry, please come to the point. On the motion, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0050par0089	I'm talking about the motion. I'm talking about Turkey's issue in Izmir, not just Izmir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0051par0090	Let him take that back, Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0049par0091	I warned him.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0050par0092	I'm talking about Turkey's illegality and injustice in Izmir's privacy.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0052par0093	I mean, he couldn't see 60 percent, so you saw him!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0050par0094	They fought an honorable democracy that suited them. The AKP's mentality has changed tactics this time. They put the carrot and club policies into action, they did what they knew best, the team. Supposedly, they nominated an investor minister from İzmir, who was open to understanding the Izmirites. That was the carrot side. The bat is today's operation at Izmir City Hall. I'd like to point out the date of the operation: today was the first day of trial for an embarrassing trial by a court of law that had become the instrument and extension of power. Many journalists, writers, researchers were brought before the judge today almost ten months after they were arrested. We'll take you in, too, for no reason to black out this case and to the Izmirites.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0052par0095	Take that back!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0050par0096	We'll turn you into the same way we turned Turkey. They pressed the button for the operation in İzmir City.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0053par0097	Corruption has been committed.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0050par0098	I'm from Izmir. I am proud to have grown up with the civilized and modern values of Izmir. It is my greatest honor to represent Izmir. It is my greatest honor to serve Izmir, to serve all of this country, but today I admire and bow before the Izmirians once again before them. Because they were right about the September 12th referendum. Now, look, they've seen the mood on the cover of that magazine before anyone else. See the cover of TIME magazine? A photographer named Marco Grop took this picture. Like any real artist, it penetrates the spirit of its material, its true character.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0054par0100	Be proud of that photo!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0050par0101	In this photograph, he captured the dark gaze of our republic's founding leaders in order to defame what he had, to exploit them. See, this picture is a portrait of a violent spirit.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0055par0103	Mr. Cherry...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0050par0104	Mr. Grob, we Izmirians have seen this look and soul before anyone else. We will not surrender to the tyranny behind these dark gazes, we will not submit to tyranny. With the sun of law and justice, the Republic of Turkey will be reborn from the birth of Izmir. I give you all my love and respect, my dear friends.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0056par0108	Thank you, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0057par0109	Mr. President, the Orator who just spoke has made a mockery of the name of our group. Mr. Baluken will answer.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0056par0110	In a little while, I heard it, and I'll give it to you when I get back.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0057par0111	You'll give it to me when you get here.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0056par0112	Right now, Mr. Canikli is against you. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0115	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I'm curious about something. Some friends, they never drop the priest's robe or the priest's robe from their tongues. How much you love this priest's robe! How fond you are of the priest's robe! (CHP rows) This is a Muslim country. If you're going to give an example, give it from there. So, you don't know anything but the priest and the robe?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0059par0117	At least we didn't wear clothes and take pictures!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0118	Remember, not just them, but the municipalities, in their ads, in their minds, in their ideas, in their memoir, in everything, they have priests and robes. Pity! Shame, shame! (CHP rows) This is a Muslim country.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0060par0119	The priest, the priest, not the priest!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0061par0120	The priests are your friends!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0121	Dear friends, now, look, look, dear friends, we say it all the time, I want to say it again from here. There can be all sorts of criticisms and criticisms here, but any speaker, when he insults my President, my Prime Minister, is actually doing the insult to his president, and he'll be back just like that. So shall We return to it at least one like it. Oh, we're not gonna insult you again, though, but we're gonna hurt you. (CHP rows) If my president is being wrongfully insulted here, he, in fact, has just insulted Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who is actually the CHP speaker, who I'm going to tell you about in a moment. If he's doing something like this, he's not insulting us, he's insulting his own president, he's trying to make an attempt on his own president, he has a grudge. That's what that means, dear friends. Now, look, before you criticize my president, he has to ask his president for his account. We didn't open this door, and I'm telling you again, guys, look, no matter how severe the criticism, we have no objection, but we can't accept the insult, we can't accept it at all. Look, I'm going to give you some information, concrete information. First ask your president to account for this information, then say something about my president. Mr. Kilicdaroglu...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0062par0124	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0125	As a style, as a method, from now on. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu, the USSR...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0063par0126	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0127	It's not a threat, no. Exactly. We deal, we have the right to a reciprocal, we always have the right to a reciprocal.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0064par0128	Mr. President, is this relevant?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0065par0129	Sir, get to the point.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0130	The more loyal the speaker was, the more loyal I will be. In 1992...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0065par0131	Mr. President, what does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0132	What's the matter with you guys? Please, no one's sorry. In 1992, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, when he was director general of the USSR, in the form of an invitation, this is the same fact, none of which is insulting, not all of which are documented - he's giving the general construction of Istanbul Göttepe Hospital to someone, he's not tendering it, he's giving it to someone. Why? It's an invitational. Now he's not in our system, he's not in our bidding system right now. Many of our friends here know how to make an invitation. Look, in 1992, Istanbul's Göztepe Hospital doesn't tender general repairs for $21 billion and 304 million. He's giving it directly to someone with his own discretion. When? It's in 1992, dear friends.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0065par0134	Was there a Public Proposal Act then?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0135	Look, now, listen carefully. In 1992, he paid $21 billion. How long is the construction of Istanbul Göztepe Hospital? It goes on until 1998, completes in 1998, dear friends. It's all in the government's official records. What's the starting number? 21 billion. Can you guess the finish number? You can't. The final number is $466 billion, dear friends. So from 1992 to 1998, it was paid, paid, paid every year. How many floors? 21 times, 21 times. So we finish a hospital job in six months, my dear friends, in six months of our time. For six years... look, there's more interesting information. Who got the job, who got the job? You know who got this job, who's the guy? I'm speaking with documents, look, I'm not slandering, I'm not insulting. I'm speaking on paper, I'm talking with the document, and all I'm saying is that in order for you to be able to answer to my president, you have to ask your president to answer for it first. You're gonna get your check, you're gonna get your conscience at ease.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0066par0137	Congressmans, please do not interfere with the security.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0138	Look, guys, one more thing. They've paid 21 times, it's started at $21 billion, and it's been completed at $466 billion. It's been paid year after year, and the resources have been made to follow year after year. The person or the person who received the tender is also important, as important as the number and time that has been paid. Construction As Ali Özcan.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0067par0139	Who is this Ali Ozcan?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0140	Who's Ali Özcan? Mr. Kilicdaroglu's friend is a dear friend. For information, I'm just sharing information with you. Information, accurate information. So...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0068par0141	Tell me about the in-laws, the in-laws!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0142	I'll give you another one, if you want it so bad. We've got plenty of these samples. The construction of the Tunceli Health Occupational High School.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0068par0143	There's no need to go that far back; tell me new, new, new. Tell me about 2008.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0144	I can't replace it, why? Because whenever he's on duty, when he's using public access, public resources, of course, we need to look at his activities at the time. Isn't that right? Naturally. The construction of the Tunceli Health Occupational High School. I'll give you another one, if you insist. It begins in 1993, Mr. Kilicdaroglu gives it to someone with an invitation.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0068par0146	Canicli, last year you told a town in Giresun, where you lied.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0147	He's paying $23 billion. When? 1993. When is it completed? It's completed in 1997. Exactly the official figures of the state. The number, seen as a start-up grant for $23 billion, depends on $195 billion when it's finished, and the amount of construction is 195 billion. How many years? Four years. There are so many examples like this.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0069par0148	How many examples are there? Talk it all out.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0149	And the rate of increase is 747 percent! I have something very interesting to tell you guys, do you know who's being given to you again?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0069par0150	Let's remove the immunity and let the two general presidents stand trial.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0151	Coincidence, I mean, it's pure coincidence; don't look for anything wrong behind it. He's also being given to a Tunceli contractor, Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu's friend, Tunceli, a contractor.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0069par0152	Let this House remove the immunity of both general presidents, and they'll both be tried.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0153	Look, guys, all this stuff is in your records, the documents, the information. I don't comment, I don't comment.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0069par0154	Mr. Canikli, you're in dangerous waters, where you can swim.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0155	I'm just sharing with you a photo of Mr. Kilicdaroglu's administration as the sole official of the SEC General Manager. That's all I'm trying to do.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0069par0156	Mr. Canikli, let's remove your immunity and have both presidents on trial. Are you in?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0157	I'm not insulting you, I'm not saying anything else, I'm not talking about the priest, I'm not talking about the robe. Why are you so uncomfortable?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0069par0158	Are you in? Let them be judged.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0159	Look, dear friends, when can judgment theoretically be led by someone? What's been done for a change? People made that change. The talks just now, the criticisms, they're actually insulting people, disrespecting people. (CHP) Look, it was the people who made the decision, and the people gave the answer. What's done? A system previously determined by some 250-300 people in a very narrow area, 11,000 people, all judges, prosecutors and judges in Turkey, have been brought to an opportunity where they can vote.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0069par0160	Mr. Canikli, remove my president's immunity from prosecution.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0161	Now I ask: Is it easier to direct or manage a system set by 250 people, or is it easier for all judges in Turkey to direct and govern a system that prosecutors vote for? [[Noises from CHP rows]] We understand your discomfort, we understand your pain, the structure you call your backyard has been removed, and the people have removed it.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0070par0164	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0165	People took it away, so you may have a problem with it, but today judgment is no one's backyard. It's not yours, it's not any party, it's not part of any organ or structure. (CHP rows) This needs to be very clear, and it needs to be made public, dear friends. Look, one of the most critical reviews of our Party and our government since they came to power in 2002, sir, is the team. The AK PARTY has another thought behind its mind, which will bring it to life.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0071par0167	So what happened to union rights in the Constitution?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0168	Guys, we've been in power for nine years, so if they're in power, that's not gonna happen, when is it gonna happen?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0071par0169	What happened to judging the Kenan universe?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0170	We've been in power for nine years. No. In fact, it was forgotten, or rather it had fallen off the agenda, and it was understood that it wasn't real, but, unfortunately, again, maybe just a little while ago, there's this, maybe some people's approach could just be that way. I mean, their thoughts, their opinions, their pasts, they can be very prone to that, and that might be the basic pillar of their view of life, so they can't get it out of their head. We don't call him anything, but...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0071par0171	Not a clever speech, Mr. Canicli! It's not a quality speech!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0058par0172	We did what we said about it, we did what we promised people, we didn't have the slightest effort or the slightest effort to make sense of it. It's been nine years, we're heading towards it, so if we haven't done it by now, then we won't be doing it anymore. Therefore, there is no real validity, no value, dear friends, of claims like this, of any real value, of any kind. And the biggest proof of that is that until today, there is no action of the government and our party, which means the slightest amount of support. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0072par0175	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. The negotiations are complete. Now two...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0073par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0074par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0072par0180	I will, sir. Mr. Buldan, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0074par0182	Mr. Baluken will speak.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0072par0183	Here you go, sir. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0075par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I regret to inform you that this council bench has become a platform for election propaganda. We've come up with a research proposal that meets the expectations of our people about the Karliova events, and there's not a sentence here that shows any sensitivity to the situation in Karliova, which studies the situation in favour and against them. Bingöl MP Karliova seems to be talking about the incident, but he doesn't use a single sentence about the problems of civilian citizens in Karliova about terror that has been spread over the civilian population, where he's only engaged in anti-PKK propaganda, and Mr. Congressman has returned. Even when we met with Bingöl Police Commissioner, our Bingol Police Director told us that the victims of the people of Karliova should be examined more rightly and more egalitarianly, and that somehow the outcome should be made public. We need to use this platform here like this: we've made a research proposal, why are we afraid of this research motion? Let these events go through a commission commissioned by the House, investigate, investigate. If what we say isn't true, you come here and share his results. See, our main object here is: The number of children arrested for throwing stones in Şırnak in the last seven months is 53. At Erzurum, two 15-year-olds are currently on trial for forming and running an organization. In a country with such a judicial mechanism, all businesses, houses are set on fire, their safety is compromised, and no investigation has been conducted. This is where we object. I'd like to ask the House to offer a solution here in a way that meets the public's expectations of a solution. In particular, I would like to ask the members of the group to conduct an agenda in accordance with the research proposals brought in.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0076par0193	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Your time is up, please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0075par0194	I can also show them these photos if our friends from the AKP are not satisfied. It shows the damage done to the civilian population. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0076par0196	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, please... two minutes. Please, let's not be picky.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0077par0200	Mr. President, members of parliament, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, who was just speaking here, has made some accusations about Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu's practices in 1992 when he was director of the SSK. We have said this many times: If you accuse Mr. Kilicdaroğlu of corruption, come, friends, let us remove the immunity.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0078par0202	Rahşan has forgiveness, Rahshan pardon! It's a pardon for Rahshan.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0077par0203	Let's just remove Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0078par0205	The priest has entered your pardon. All those related to him were pardoned by Rahsan. With the pardon of Rahshan in 99, he was eliminated.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0077par0206	Yeah, well, there's no point in talking here. Stand behind your words. I'll give you an example. Once upon a time, there was a privatisation of Kusada Bay. An Israeli businessman named Ofer took this tender illegally. It's a headline to the press, to the public. In those days, the Prime Minister had three explanations that contradicted him in one day. He was asked: "Do you know Ofer? No, I don't. I may have seen him in the afternoon. I think I've spoken to him in the evening. We don't have such a president in our charge. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Canikli says we've never made the crown. The Grand Prime Minister has made the largest of the team today. Today... today... the Prime Minister said this on March 17, 2011... about the price of military service. Our offer was announced the day before. I can't take such responsibility as Erdogan. We set out as some of the orphans. There's no money, there's a weird guru. No soldier with money, no soldier without money. I'll take it to the referendum. He said. What did the Prime Minister say today? For 30 thousand liras to the man who has money, to the soldier who has no money. Good luck with that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0212	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0080par0213	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0081par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0218	Congressmans, I submit to your votes the Peace and Democracy Party's motion under Article 19 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0082par0220	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0081par0221	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0222	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0083par0223	Mr. President, before that, look, Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0224	We've got a roll call. Let's do it.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0083par0225	Sir, he must have insulted you. I have to answer him first, Mr. President, please, very clearly, Mr. Hamzacebi has insulted our party, our government, and our President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0226	I'll give you my word after roll call, sir. There's a roll call. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0084par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0230	You, too, sir. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Land, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Firat, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Demir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll give you three minutes to roll call. We're starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0085par0240	Mr. President, before we vote...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0241	I promise, sir. All those in favor... those who don't... are not accepted.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0086par0243	Mr. Zafer CaIan has agreed. I want him on the record.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0244	Now, Mr. Buldan, who will speak?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0087par0245	Ayla Akat Ata...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0246	Here, wait a minute, you were going to make a statement.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0088par0247	What do you say in a minute?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0248	Here, give me an explanation, just a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0088par0249	Two minutes, Mr. President, isn't that something?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0250	Wait a minute, because I've already given you two. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0089par0252	You're giving everyone two minutes, Mayor, why...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0253	I'll give everyone two minutes, one minute more, one minute, for him. He spoke for two minutes earlier.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0089par0254	Why should I add two different speakers pick on you twice?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0079par0255	Please sit down. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0090par0259	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. And thank you, Mr. Hatibe, for giving me a chance to explain again. The boycott attitude in the BDP's boycott process, in the September 12th referendum process, yes, it has been discussed a lot, but it has also achieved its goal. We were neither in favor of the continuation of the existing status quo nor in favor of false democratic rhetoric. When we received this offer, we said, "Don't drink our tea, don't go." We said, "Don't come." We sat down, listened very carefully, because we believed that Turkey needed a new constitution. We also believed that this should not be postponed with a new constitutional amendment package. We also gave our warnings about it. We've prepared our files, and we've added a number of arrangements for the current arrangement, which do not include regulation, but may lead to social peace and democratisation in Turkey. We put an urgent package of democracy on top of it. Because the right to a meeting and demonstration march, freedom of thought, freedom of speech, freedom of organization, which was guaranteed today in the Constitution for social peace and democratisation, were all eliminated by sub-law norms. The AKP has blocked all of this. Two days after we submitted the file... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's no democracy short of words, fellas.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0091par0263	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Movement Party Group now has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and vote on.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0092par0265	Mr. President, I had a request to make a statement, after the vote. You said.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0093par0266	It's over.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0092par0267	No, it's over or it's over, okay?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0094par0268	Well, please don't be so picky...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0095par0269	Just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0094par0270	Two minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0096par0271	Just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0097par0272	No more than a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0094par0273	Next time I'll do your bidding!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0098par0275	Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I salute you all. I'd have expected the events I just told you would not have happened, it's not true, I'd have expected him to be told. But the one who throws the ball to the crown is a bit of Sharq's cunning.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0099par0277	Whether the judgment is right or not.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0098par0278	Look, what's he saying? You're a judge. You can't be judged. Why? Because under the Law of Forgiveness, which was issued in 1999, which is known as the Pathan Afffifah, all these verbs of Mr. Kilicdaroglu are in the form of forgiveness, all of which are in the form of forgiveness.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0099par0279	Mr. Canikli, let us make a new law, and let him not take advantage of the Law of Forgiveness.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0100par0280	Where is Hüseyin Cos, Hüseyin Cos? Governor of where, just tell me.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0098par0281	However, what must be done... therefore, sir, since they know this, let us come and be judged... even if we are judged, he will not be condemned. The important thing is whether this is true or not, whether your conscience is comfortable in this picture.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0099par0282	He'll be a prisoner of public conscience. The ban on politics... we're counting on it.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0098par0283	The SEC is to determine whether the rights of the orphan there should be squandered. That's all that matters, dear friends. We expected him from you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0099par0284	Let's do it together. Why do you talk like that? How could you accuse us like this?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0098par0285	I'd expect you to say: "No, that's not true, Kılıçdaroğlu has not done such a thing."
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0099par0286	Mr. Canikli, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0098par0287	You can't, because it's all documented, it's all true, sir, let's just judge the bride.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0101par0288	Come on, look, he asked you a question, let's get the immunity out of here!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0098par0289	So it's all true. If your conscience is clear, I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0102par0291	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0103par0292	Mr. President, I'll just add one sentence...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0102par0293	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0103par0294	So, on the stand, Mr. Canikli, he's making a comment, moving from the unsaid. I've made a very strong claim, I've made a claim to a team, he's not responding, so he's taking it. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0102par0295	It's on the books, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0104par0296	Mr. President, look, I'm making it very clear that those who specialize in teams are known. In fact, it's been known to the public that I didn't want to bring it to this point, but what does it mean, Mr. President, and who was given it for, and for what reason? I'll leave that to your appreciation.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0103par0297	The Prime Minister's attitude today is very clear.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0102par0298	Thank you, it's in the transcripts, both of you. Thank you very much. The nationalist movement party's proposal... Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors has failed to vote at a meeting Tuesday (June 22,11, 2011), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of Drinks. Yours truly. On Tuesday, October 19, 2011 and 441 points, I would like to propose that our parliamentary research proposal for the purposes of investigating the Ways of Permanent Solutions, the fight against Violence Against Women, be held at the General Assembly on Tuesday 22,11,2011 (now) in today's Union. Yes, we will now promise two people in favor of this proposal and against it. The first word, in favor of Mr. Ruzar Demirelkin, is Eskişehir MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, sir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0105par0316	Mr. President, I have made a pledge as our Nationalist Movement Party Group in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate the ongoing solutions to the fight against violence against women. I salute you all. In parallel with social change and development, you also appreciate that our life habits are changing. Although changes often affect society in a positive way, unfortunately, we also observe its negative effects at times. Violence is one of those negatives. Violence against women is a universal problem that the world accepts and strives to prevent. The day goes by in our country, so we don't have to read any shocking news about it or see your picture in the papers, but we do know that this is, unfortunately, very few of what happened -- in a cliche -- the face of Aysberg on water. However, it is not right to describe some of these events simply as violence against women. For example, the case of the girl who was sentenced when she was thirteen years old to persuade 26 grown men in the province to be with her consent. It is neither violence on a child, nor violence on a woman, nor child abuse; it is a crime of humanity and a crime of law. Violence is seen in our society in a proliferation directed from strong to weak, from man to woman, from young to old, from mother to child, from child to child, from child to toy to friend. Although being a woman and a man are a biological framework, the woman's inequality in matters such as education, health, work, political participation is a social problem, and the same reasons are the source of violence against women. Even in our dictionaries today, if it is described as "beautiful," "beautiful," "beautiful," "gentleman." "We have much to discuss in terms of gender roles," "we have a lot to do, a lot to do, a lot of ways to go." Respect for man, equal citizenship, the concepts of equality of women, the Turkish nation, Haci Bektas Veli, has lived as the wealth of culture for centuries. With international agreements that we are on, the government pledges that with the responsibility of being the social law state of our Constitution, which comes from the 2nd and 5th Articles of the Constitution, it will base on the equality of opportunity, based on the social and economic perspective of all its citizens and on the equality of social gender in all plans and programmes. Although Turkey signed the Convention on Discriminalism Against Women in 1985, Turkey was only able to vote in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey during the 57th Government, when it was a partner in the National Movement Party in October 2002. One of the main tasks of executives and decisionmakers is to create legislation, and the other is to lead the implementation of legislation. From this sentence, I'd like to read a paragraph to you from the press: the chairman of the National Ministry of Education Education Education Board has renewed the program for Citizenship and Democracy Education, which has been taught in the 8th grade. The Minister of National Education approved the programme's arrangements on 3 August 2011. The International Convention on Anti-Semitism Against the United Nations Women, or CEDAW, has been removed from the new curriculum. I read this paragraph from the press. So, at a time when violence against women has been increasing in more and more different forms every day, I'm leaving it up to the discretion of the High Assembly when the relevant ministry in the government says they're drafting a law on preventing violence against women. We're in a process where some of us are legitimizing and concealing what happened by saying, "I love it, but some of us are justifying violence and teaching it with visual media. That's why we hope and hope that every step towards preventing violence will be part of the work that will be done for the implementation of positive policies of every species of media starting from television series to newspapers and websites. The government's work on the problem of domestic violence has not been developed to prevent violence from happening at the scale of what to do after the violence has occurred. For example, family counselling centres are opened to protect, support, and help solve problems. Theoretically, such centers will surely benefit, but one example of the work that the Justice and Development Party has started in the local government will refresh your memory with the words I'm about to say right now. A woman who stated that she served as a family counselor in the municipalities of the relevant party and identified herself as a guardian family counselor has already cheated 85 percent of men. In that case polygamy should be legalized. I think you all remember. I mean, Ma'am, in this expression, he insulted both men and women, but those in charge ignored them. If the Ministry is going to appoint family advisers to entrust our families to such advisers, I think it should review its plan once again, and, as shown in this example, the government is unable to determine the ways and methods for its goals, assigning false guides to it, such as the women I just gave its example to. We all know that violence is not limited only in the family. For example, violence at work, which is the problem of women with mobbing. This issue is hardly raised by the government at all, but pulling her out of employment does not yield results. I'd like to state a fact that came out in the last decree of the law. You know he's also going to provide health care for non-Turkish personnel. But there is another fact that you all know that education and health are the two areas where women are most employed. Therefore, you will all agree that there is also violence in unemployment or economic addiction, depending on the regulation of the law. Thus, we women are in accordance with the decree of the law that such violence is awaiting in the future. As the National Movement Party Group, we will undoubtedly be following every government policy that reduces social violence, and we will be on the side of every positive work he does. Education is a right, faith is a freedom, citizenship is a constitutional equality, and we are willing to stand by the law proposal that we made in 2008 to eliminate the psychological violence of our young girls, who are all over the age of 18, despite the changing rules of the Student Selection and Placement Centre, which are capable of making individual decisions, and we are ready to solve this problem together. We say again that we will take every step you take to ensure women's right to education and freedom of faith. At the beginning of November, you know the human development index was announced. Our turn in human development is, unfortunately, 92. The countries that were said to be bankrupt are ranked 29th. I want to give an example to see where Turkey is in human development: Armenia's 86th, Iran's 88th, Turkey's 92nd, Tunisia is 94th. So democracy, development, they're not just economic issues. The goal of the National Movement Party is a country of equals, and our basic approach, not just the balance of statistics, but the subject of women. The National Movement Party recognizes women as the basis of the country's development and democracy. Social gender equality is not about adapting to male values; gender equality means establishing new and equal relations based on equal rights, equal obligations and equal opportunities for men and women. As you know, November 25th is the day of the fight against the United Nations Women. Because of this day, our party will organise a workshop, and we have named our workshop after the Hand of those we love because we know that violence against women, unfortunately, is being done by people with many hearts or blood. Sadly, we are witnessing that the government is busy organizing the prevention of violence for women who are still capable of surviving after being violent. In this sentence, it is absolute that there is a need for a social mental transformation in combating violence. The priority of the National Movement Party is to contribute to efforts to reduce violence and prevent it, whether it is social violence against the woman or what will be done after violence. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0106par0333	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0107par0337	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to investigate the parliamentary research motion for permanent solutions to the fight against violence against women. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, violence against women continues to exist in our country as it does in every region of the world. Violence is an important problem that deprives women of their most basic rights and affects women's health in a negative way. Violence against women can also be seen in different ways - economic, social, verbal, psychological, and sexual. In any case, violence is a concept that resembles the times of ignorance, and all forms of violence are ignorance. I think Turkey gives the best answer to those who claim that some countries, some people, don't deserve democracy by dividing religion, culture, geography, for those who claim democracy is premature for some countries. To those who are trapped in their own inner worlds, to those who do not see the rest of the world's dramas, Turkey's voice is the best response to the cry of Turkey. Turkey's women in particular show the world today that Islam and democracy can exist together, that tradition and modernity can create a beautiful synthesis. Turkey is increasing its regional activity as a democratic, secular, social state, while Turkish women show the world their roles in their superior performance in every aspect of life. And because I have to look at it this way, I'm expressing these sentences. As stated in Article 17 of the Constitution, no one can be tortured or persecuted; no one can be subjected to a punishment or treatment that is incompatible with human dignity. We have domestic violence studies in Turkey, and 39% of women across Turkey have been subjected to violence at least once, unfortunately 15.3% of them have been subjected to sexual violence, 43.9% have been subjected to emotional violence. According to research results, violence against women is intense in families with low levels of education and prosperity, not only in Turkey, but in the world's reality, which is also expressed in research results, not only in poor families, but also in families with the opposite levels of education. I want to express in particular that the statistics of violence have not been kept, and since there are no real, real statements, are being presented today, until the date of the AK PARTY's arrival in power, as it appears to be increasing today. Today, however, all real statements about violence are ahead of us, real facts, and statistically ahead. I expect a responsible approach from the opposition and the media on this issue, and I think we can minimize violence by feeling solidarity and responsibility, not abuse. As a matter of fact, we set up a subcommittee last week on our Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission. On this subject and on this subcommittee will continue to work on the commission with the subtitle of Women and Media, which means a subcommittee study of the woman in the media. You know, another subcommittee study was also about the legal arrangements for the woman, about the Male Opportunity Equality Commission. In Turkey, it is a fact of public opinion that we are seeking to strengthen measures to prevent especially violence against women. In the face of urgent problems, we activate the mechanisms to protect our women, first by their own consent. It is a positive development that violence against women has been recognized by all segments that our country has a very important problem to deal with. This is really satisfying because all activities above parties are very valuable in that sense. I'd like to underline the fact that the media, our most important supporter for the creation of social sensitivity in preventing violence against women, should be more sensitive when expressing these issues. In that subcommittee, the subcommittee of the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission has therefore been the subcommittee of the Commission for Women's Opportunity. The establishment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy following the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission established in this Parliament during the EC Party rulings is also one of the key indicators of the importance given to women. Again, we do not favour the creation of the philosophical belief created by feminist thinking between women and men who make our view of women very different from other parties, from other parts of society. Why? Because we believe that men and women are inseparable and complete. Many political parties have women's quotas in their charters, but we don't have them in the AK PARTY. Why? We consider women's quota an insult to women. As known as Law 5840, the Grand National Assembly of Women's Opportunities Commission for Women's Opportunity, has taken on the subject of domestic violence against a woman who is a painful problem in our country, and has created several subcommittee commissions in this regard. Dear lawmakers, this has been on the stand for years. I think the outcome of these discussions is more important than the topic being brought up. At this point, I have to make it very clear that our government has brought in many practices that protect women's honor. That's why he's been putting up with women for ten years. For example, on October 1, 2010, the Prime Minister's General Assembly on the Proliferation of Women's Employment and Equality of Opportunity has strengthened women's socioeconomic positions, improving women's employment in social life to achieve their goal of social development. Not only that, many legal regulations for women have been signed, but many legal regulations have been made in the Turkish Penal Code to strengthen our women in both the Civil Law, the Law, and the Constitutional regulations, economically, individually. As a matter of fact, it is expressed in the motion referred to, but in the following instance, the setbacks in the application must be carried out. The thing about women is, the last thing I want to do is add up my sentences by saying, Another reason why we called this motion no is that the subcommittee of the Human Rights Commission currently has a subcommittee for violence against the woman in the presidency of the Beautiful Lady of Ulir. When we look back at the previous period of study, we can see that as a subcommittee for the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission, there has been another study of violence against women, and this study has been reported, and this report has given us a light. Finally, I would like to say that we will not support this motion, and I salute you all, for I believe in the policy of solutions that our Commission for Male Opportunity and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, established in this Parliament, which is extremely sensitive.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0108par0357	I don't understand why you're against it.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0109par0358	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Now, third speaker, in favor of Yalova MP Muharrem İnce. Here you go, Mr. Slim. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0110par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all, Congressmans. Violence against women, violence on the street, violence at school, violence in the House. I will now explain to you the political violence, judicial violence of a congressman. Seventeen days before the elections, I went to Pamukova district of Sakarya. When we were traveling there, we had a sound, a regular vehicle -- I improvised a call to the citizen. Now I'm reading you the police report...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0111par0367	Is it a man or a woman?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0110par0368	None of your business! None of your business! Behave yourself!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0112par0369	Please, Mr. Slim, continue.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0110par0370	I'm reading to you now the police report: on 25/05/2011, at approximately 1:45 p.m., CHP Deputy Chair Muharrem İnce, our district of Cumhuriyet Square, without prior permission, CHP district executives and members of the Sakarya MP candidates have been found to be critical of the power of the public gathered in the square until 2:15 p.m. and to be critical of the performances of power of the people gathered around the community, during the microphone, during the propaganda, during which their vans have affected traffic flow in a negative way, and only Muharrem Tent. (NV/TK) I blocked the traffic stream. I'm guilty! Now, according to this report, I'd like to congratulate you on the prosecutor who's prepared a trial and has asked for my immunity lifted.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0113par0372	Come on, let's get him up!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0110par0373	They've written a report that I'm a opposition, that I'm a critic of power. So, what was I supposed to do? Was I supposed to suck up to power? Now, in another indictment, I'm stepping up again, showing Turkish privatisation of land, factories, where it says: "Muharrem Tül is in the process of corrosive activities." Now, I call to the prosecutors from the stand: I don't want to wear down power, I want to destroy power. I want to change power, replace it with a new power. (H.P.) Write those indictments properly. Write down your indictments properly. What do you mean, he criticizes power, he undermines power? I want to destroy that power, to destroy it! I say, prosecutors, hear this.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0114par0376	It's a citizen's decision, and you can't afford it.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0115par0377	We thought it was the way. What are you gonna do when you can't get out of the trunk?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0116par0378	People have made up their minds.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0379	Now, it's my fault for the opposition. Now I have a file on the removal of my immunity. After nine years, I have a file. Who else do you have? If he accuses others of fraud in private documents, violation of the State Contraction Act, abuse of office, misbehavior in the tender, fraud in the document and fraud in public institutions, embezzlement, qualified embezzlement in public transport tickets, counterfeiting in official documents and records. Now, in my name, the names of these alleged crimes will be written in the same place. I need to get out of this embarrassing situation. I don't want to be on the same list as those people. Fezleke came to me on Friday. Right now, I want my immunity lifted in front of everyone on the stand. I'm saying: I'm writing a petition to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- I'm calling the AKP MP who has a heart -- and I'll leave this petition here, and you can put this petition in Parliament, put your fingers up, raise my immunity, I'll be judged, I'll get rid of it. That's the first one. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The second is the Office of the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of Pamukova, a statement sent to Parliament by the Bureau of Misdemeanor. I'm tearing up this debate from the people's stand, I don't know this kind of argument, I'm tearing up this debate. I don't know that kind of argument. What do I do when I don't criticize power? What am I gonna do, suck up to power? He is wearing down power. He says, "He criticizes power." He says, "His speech has been found to be critical of power." I'm talking to those prosecutors, and I've ripped that debate from this nation's bench, and I don't know that argument, so I'm telling you to do what you have to do. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] My dear friends, another subject: The Prime Minister is giving a speech in the next room today, saying: "The representative of the P.A.P.P., he means me."
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0118par0386	The Prime Minister won't take care of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0387	He says he doesn't even know Halife Abdulmecit and Padişah Abdulmecit.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0119par0388	You know, but he doesn't mean you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0389	That's because I said it here. I sent those invitations. The Caliph Abdulmecit or the Padişah Abdulmecit. There's an invitation. They're both Abdulmecit. But I'm telling the Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, do you remember when you mixed Faruk Nafiz Çamlıbel and Fazil Hüsni in the Turkish Language Convention? I'll tell the Prime Minister one more thing: it's okay for me to mix it up because I'm speaking from the heart, and you've confused two poets with glass, even though you're talking from the window, how about that?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0120par0392	Shame, shame.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0393	Now, another thing: My dear friends, look, we're dealing with another application of the AKP Powers in Izmir. Currently, there are 52 tax inspectors, 5 Court inspectors, 2 property inspectors and dozens of experts in İzmir. To take over Izmir, which you once compared to a dirty boy, you do this to take over what you call lzmir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0120par0394	52 people?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0395	You didn't get Izmir. You want to get Izmir. You want to get Izmir. You can take the police and the fascist methods and the Izmir municipal workers, but modern Izmir will never surrender to you. Now, I'm going to say what I did in the middle of my speech to you once again: look, Mr. Canikli, you've just come to our president, and you've said a lot of things here.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0121par0397	Is this about violence against the woman, Mr. Tünce?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0398	Look, there's a way, there's a way, Mr. Canikli. Look, I promise you on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Tomorrow, we will submit petitions for the removal of the immunity of 135 MPs to the Parliamentary Presidency. Do you have a heart? Do you have a heart?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0122par0399	Mr. Muharrem, he's not fulfilling his purpose. I'm saying something else. I say, is it comfortable for you? I'm telling you, is it comfortable for you?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0401	Look, in case you haven't heard, I'll bring in our president's petition tomorrow.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0122par0402	Ask Mr. Kilicdaroğlu if he's comfortable.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0403	I vouch for all my friends, 135 people.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0122par0404	He can't be judged.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0405	Look, here's mine. I'm here.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0123par0406	Let's give it to him now.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0122par0407	Rahşan has been pardoned, never mind, pass them.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0408	Now, now, all of us, together, will file all our immunity petitions.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0122par0409	So you admit that Mr. Kilicdaroglu did what he did, no matter what he did.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0410	Look, I know you can't do this. You can't do this, you can't do this for 550 people, you won't. I'll make it easy for you. Come on, Karma Commission, let's not be too busy here, here. If that's the case, you've got criminal charges.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0122par0412	He's on trial, he's on trial, he's out of time.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0413	Look, here's what we'll do. Look, here's what we'll do.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0122par0414	There's no statute of limitations, he's on trial, you know.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0415	Mr. Canicli, Mr. Canikli...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0124par0416	Please tell the House...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0417	You're the Deputy Prime Minister, and I'm Mr. Kilicdaroglu's deputy. Look, I'm coming out on behalf of Mr. Kilicdaroglu. Tomorrow I have the courage and the power to submit Mr. Kilicdaroglu's request for immunity to the Speaker of Parliament, do you?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0125par0419	What about Rahsan's pardon? Can you bring back the priest's pardon? Do you have the heart to undo the forgiveness of Rahshan? Can you get it back? Criticize! Why don't you say no, deny what you're saying?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0420	Well, Mr. Canikli, we're both deputy group presidents. Look, we're both deputy group presidents. The D.A.'s making fun of the House! The D.A. is making fun of Congress! You're suing an MP, an opposition MP for criticism of the government.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0125par0421	No one can interfere with the judgment!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0422	Who's that prosecutor? Who's that prosecutor? I criticized the government, didn't insult it. He wrote there, too. Look, I want to be judged. Look, you're my co-chair friend. You're the vice president of another party, and I'm different.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0125par0424	Mr. Muharrem, wait until the end of the semester. Be patient until the end of the semester. The statute of limitations isn't over, there's nothing missing!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0425	I'll leave my petition here. Here, give this to the Speaker.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0126par0427	Mr. Slim, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0117par0428	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0126par0430	Congressmans, yes...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0127par0431	Mr. President, the speaker has made grave accusations against myself and my group. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0126par0432	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0127par0437	Dear friends, look...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0128par0438	Come on, come on! Come on, let's see your heart!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0126par0439	Please, please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0128par0440	Mr. President, you're the Speaker...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0129par0441	I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0126par0442	He hasn't started yet, brother. He hasn't started yet.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0128par0443	Get out of here!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0126par0444	So you're the one who's always going to talk!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0130par0445	Mr. President, are you running an elementary school?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0128par0446	Head of the House!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0131par0447	Why don't you get in there! Why don't you interfere with the AKP!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0132par0448	Come on, sit down!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0128par0449	You're the President of the Independent Assembly! Don't be a lawyer!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0132par0450	He hasn't started yet! Oh, shit!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0133par0451	Dear friends, I'm still...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0132par0453	Gentlemen, my dear friends, you shout as your friend speaks, you shout when the other side speaks.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0134par0454	Why don't you get in there!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0135par0455	Head of the House!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0132par0456	Please listen in silence. Especially when you're yelling every day! Every day! Every hearing! Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0135par0457	Are you uncomfortable?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0136par0458	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0132par0460	Shut up and let's hear it, please... if you're going to speak to the stand, please... please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0136par0461	Dear friends, look, I'm asking Mr. Encel a very clear question from here: can you tell me that the events of the time when Mr. Kilicdaroglu was a general director of the SEC are not true, that the truth is not true?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0137par0462	We'll say.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0138par0463	I will.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0139par0464	We'll say.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0140par0465	Yes, we do.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0141par0466	Not a peep. They can't, dear friends. Look, I'm saying something else, Mr. Slim, and you're saying something else. So, since not all of the friends here who are currently having a fezleke are working on the statute of limitations, you know, the moment they get here, the files don't process the statute of limitations, they're not literally immunity, they're being tried when the term is over, when the parliamentary power of attorney is over.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0142par0468	Don't teach the law, do it.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0141par0469	Look, the bottom here needs to be drawn again: it's impossible to get results here, and it's all going to be acquitted when he goes to trial under my earlier statements.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0143par0470	Let's just say the statute of limitations doesn't work, Mr. Canicli. ▪ The statute of limitations does not work. Let's put something there.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0141par0471	Why? Because, after the events took place, after the events took place, there was a kind of amnesty that would cover all of them, dear friends, all of them, potentially all of them. So come out here, sir, remove our immunity, and we'll be judged. There's no point in saying it, there's no validity.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0144par0472	You too, then.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0141par0473	What matters is your conscience, Mr. Slim, your conscience. I trust your conscience. Look, I'm telling you, I'm telling you. Can you just come out here and say...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0145par0475	Mr. Canicli, do as you must.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0141par0476	I won't criticize you again, I won't bring it up again. Mr. Kilicdaroglu did not have these actions at that time, and they are not true. He didn't give the contracts what he wanted, he didn't go 23 times. The right of a Soviet pensioner has not been defeated. Say, I will take back all my words. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0146par0479	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0147par0480	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli has made a mockery of the President of our Group, our President. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0146par0482	Mr. President, where is this going?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0148par0484	You promised him, give him this too.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0147par0485	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0146par0486	Wait a second... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0149par0488	Promise me, I'll talk on the stand.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0146par0489	Mr. Group Vice President would like a word, please have a seat. Here you go, two minutes, please. Please, let's not be picky.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0150par0493	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Canikli, there's no bread for you, so don't bother. Now, you didn't answer him here. Now, Mr. Canikli knows very well that Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu had nothing illegal during his term as General Manager.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0151par0496	I know the opposite.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0150par0497	Yeah, nothing happened to him.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0151par0498	I know the opposite; he's been pardoned.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0150par0499	You have the government, you have the inspectors. You can always go and investigate them, you can always do that. You can find new files, but you can't. Don't you say it's the years of inflation? Aren't you saying that the numbers have been worn out for years?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0151par0501	Look, the document! What else do we have here?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0150par0502	Year after year when the numbers were worn out. You guys go check the High Control Board reports. Look at the invitationed tenders received by a travers company, Mr. Prime Minister's relatives, the travers company.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0151par0503	There's no pardon!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0150par0504	Look at the tenders, free of contract, without competition. On the agenda of the CSI Commission, you are preventing any discussion. Look, I'm coming back to what Mr. Slim said and what I just said. Such potential corruption files are out of the question. There are motions for the prosecutor's office that has arrived at the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey about Mr. Prime Minister, the various MPs in your group, the ministers. Consistent corruption files, allegations, of course.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0151par0506	Look, one of them's a major city secretary. The legislature is over. He's been acquitted.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0150par0507	Embezzlement, conflict, counterfeiting, fake ticket.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0151par0508	You know very well they've all been acquitted.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0150par0509	Look, they're very strong claims. I mean, if you guys think you're living with these allegations, if you're digesting them, I have nothing to say. The period of Mr. Kilicdaroglu's SSK General Directorate is a period of all corruption, very transparent, very decent General Manager. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0513	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0514	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0515	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0516	It's about you, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0517	Sir?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0518	It's about you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0519	What do you want to talk about me?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0520	Just now, on the Internet, while I'm talking, your microphone is on, and we can't tell from this crowd, but the audience is watching your speech... there are dozens of comments on the Internet right now.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0521	Talk about what?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0522	It's about you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0523	Please tell me.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0524	What you used to say there was a conjecture, and that was...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0525	No, no, it's not like that. No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0526	Wait a minute... now I've got the footage coming in.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0152par0527	Let him come, sir, there's also a record. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0528	Mr. President, look, even the columnists in the big papers are commenting on this on Twitter, on Facebook.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0154par0529	So soon? Already?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0530	Did you just...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0155par0531	Are there any records?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0154par0532	It hasn't been five minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0533	They may not have been able to track you down because you're an unknown congressman.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0155par0534	Let's look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0154par0535	Already?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0536	Right now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0537	Mr. Slim, just a second... if there's a record, I'll...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0538	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0539	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0540	Mr. President, now, I've ordered the footage.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0541	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0542	Now, our friends, our stenographers may not have heard this, but you can appreciate that the person watching TV is hearing a lot more clearly than we are.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0543	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0544	Yeah, well, we all know that, and all the lawmakers know that.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0545	Yeah...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0546	It's coming out of your mouth, from very different provinces, from very different sections, from the Internet. I'm bringing this to your attention. I hope you didn't do that.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0157par0547	Are there any records?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0548	I hope so, too. If that happened, I apologize, I don't think I did it, I apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0549	No, Mr. President, I hope you won't do anything like that, but if you did, it's not like you're gonna end up with an apology.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0550	Yes, sir, yes.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0153par0551	And I'm bringing this to your attention.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0552	When he comes, you do what's necessary, if you're going to execute him.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0158par0553	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0554	No, I have nothing to offer you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0158par0555	I want a promise. You took the gavel, you attacked me from there.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0556	Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0158par0557	I want a word, Mr. President. I want a quote from the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0558	Right now, sir, we're having a conversation. In this interview, the promise is 10 minutes, against Mr. Sebahat Tuncel.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0158par0560	You took the mallet, you attacked, Mr. President, and I give you my word, according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0561	Then tell me if you want to speak according to 60.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0159par0562	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0563	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0159par0564	Now, the Deputy President of the Republican People's Party Group, during his speech, has made a claim at the point where reports have been blocked by the CSI Commission. I'd like a word as head of the CSI Commission.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0156par0565	I'll give it to you in a minute. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0160par0570	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the motion made by the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. In fact, in this discussion here, in the debate of violence against women, we would like to express our discomfort about the society of Turkey, especially the main opposition party, which is women's great expectations, turning the agenda into something else without saying anything about this agenda. It seems that -- knowingly and willingly -- the AKP and CHP have agreed to cover up the issues that came up today, and they're both actually having a good duel about the motion that our group has just presented, and now about the violence against the woman, not to be discussed. It's like there's a class and a bunch of naughty kids in class, and they're doing things from here that they can't solve, and I want to start by criticizing it once again. As a result of Women's Violence Week, women's organisations today are struggling to prevent violence against women in many environmental streets, which are sensitive to women. Through this struggle, significant changes have been made in this Parliament regarding violence against women. Sadly, these legal changes have not brought the solution to the problem, and there are still serious problems with implementation. If violence against women during the AKP government is still arriving at 1,400 per cent, according to all legal regulations, according to Mr. Hatibin's boastful regulations here, if women are still being killed, if there is no obstruction of violence against women, there is a problem here. The problem right here is the painting, the painting we just saw, the male dominant mindset. In fact, from where men stand on this platform, how can they leave this matter out of the agenda today, how can women argue about their own agenda, how can we not discuss it here, how can we eliminate the policies of equality? So we have to start here. If there were no equality between men and women, real violence would continue in this country. The point of inequality is violence. It's got a lot of things going on, it's happening in private, it's happening in public, it's happening on the streets, it's becoming political violence. For years, feminists have struggled with special areas of politics. They have struggled to make the issues in the private area visible, and today it has come to an important point. Again, political violence, we see here, as well, that our group lives every day, but politically, political violence against women is mostly living in the opposition of democratic, left, Kurdish women politicians in this country. More than 400 female politicians are currently in prison in operations under the name of the Turkish Cypriots. Two of our elected women today are still in prison. Prof. Before the indictment was prepared, Büşra Ersanlı was even declared guilty by the AKP on this stand. And that's where we're at in the political field. In fact, that's why women's policy is not visible in Turkey. There's a change of mind about that. Look, we joined a program in Sweden with lawmakers from all the parties in the group here. There were AKP, CHP, MPP, and so were we. There we saw how important violence against women was to women's equality policies, how important it was to the prosperity level there, the level of women's development, the amount of violence against women in the work of 3 percent. For that, you need a change of mind. But how can a government that doesn't believe in the equality of men and women, who does its policy to do so, again, about quotas -- again, on this stand -- who doesn't believe in quotas, who doesn't want quotas to be legally guaranteed, take steps towards violence against women about the equality of women? No way. That's why we have these problems with the application, so we can't stop the violence against the woman. Every day, he's subjected to male violence by his wife, by his girlfriend, by someone I don't know. There's another level of violence aimed at LGBT organizations. You can't even talk about it. Everybody knows how homophobic this thing is. Every day, trans individuals are slaughtered. Why? It's about the traditional approach. The only way to eliminate violence policy is to ensure the equality of gender and to combat it. We can't fight this on the stand. We as women of BDP know how difficult gender equality policy is, we know from our own experience. I'm sure the female paralegals at the political parties here are having the same problems as their boyfriends and male surrogates. Because men don't even give women a say in their traditionally dominant, self-righteous approach. You're a good woman if you fit that frame, if you're not, you're bad; you're what the Prime Minister of this country calls a villain. That's what women used to call them. Now how do we change these policies? With the theater scene here! We have to change the mindset, otherwise, as long as we don't live in real equality policies, we'll be fine here. That's the problem with all of us, above political parties, especially us women. Where do we live most of all? So we live in factories, we live in streets, we live in Van earthquakes, we live in areas where we do politics, we face segregation policies everywhere. We're fighting against it, and we're gonna keep it going. This struggle is also the cause of the Day of the Battle of Violence Against the 25th November woman. Because they resist fascism, because they insist on their own equality policies, their freedom, the resistance of the Mirabel sisters in the Dominican Republic, we have taken over them today, so, of course, we will resist monogamous, sexist, nationalist approaches, we will ask for equality policies to live. Look, there's been an important development these days, a contract called the Istanbul Convention will be signed. We hope that power will sign without hesitation to the commitments there and bring it right here. This is an important step. We call the good one good, but there are things that aren't good. The mentality here isn't good, the separatist approach isn't good, the monogamous approach isn't good. Look, people have just been made fun of by their beliefs on this stand. It's a matter of non-Muslims. In fact, there are things being done on this platform that suggest that we are Zarathustrasts; is this appropriate, that you rule Turkey? There are all people in Turkey; there are women; there are young people; there are Muslims; there are non-Muslims; there are Zarathists; there are Alevis. Now, how can we accept this segregating attitude here against him? It's not acceptable to even lay ground to it. And we women certainly don't accept the approaches to this nationalism, to this non-nationalism, to one another, to another, to another belief, to another belief, to insult anyone else over it. We'd like to say that we've rejected this from here once again. Again, members of lawmakers, we are the painting of Turkey. We're going to solve our problems here, we need to discuss them to solve them. The reason for the research proposals is to investigate the problems that exist in Turkey, to discuss the consequences, to produce the policies Turkey needs in accordance with its results. Unless these policies are produced, unfortunately, this thing will continue here. I don't think it suits Turkey. We don't think it suits Turkey. We've got bigger problems here. Look, we're looking at a new era of Constitutional debate. We, as women, also care about the Constitution because we care about guaranteeing the equality of gender in the Constitution, not just one clause, but the equality policy of all its articles. Again, we want the quota to be constitutionally guaranteed because these are the opportunities for women to express themselves both in politics and in social life, in social life, in economic life. It is not possible to deal with the 5,000-year-old male system without positive discrimination. And how are we supposed to do that in an environment where we're already so low that we're trying to cut our voices down with other agendas? In the face of this, everyone's position at their own parties, leaving the partisanism -- the party doesn't get us anything -- needs to focus on that. For example, the National Movement Party says we don't stand side by side with the BDP because every motion we make has given BDP. We don't say that, but if the National Movement Party did, and he's right, it's an important issue, it's not a matter of standing side by side, we can stand apart politically, we may not like your policies, but we have to work together in common, otherwise democracy doesn't develop. There's nothing more here than fighting, insulting, insulting each other. As women, it's especially important for female MPs to use a new language here. I say it is our duty and responsibility to use a language that is truly sensitive to gender equality against the male dominant language, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0161par0581	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0162par0582	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0161par0583	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0163par0584	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0161par0585	Now, the nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0164par0586	Mr. President, do I still have my word?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0161par0587	Can I have a second of your time after the vote?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0164par0588	Let me make a brief statement, Mr. President, if I may.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0161par0589	Okay, here you go. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0165par0591	Mr. President, I have a two-minute request on this matter.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0161par0592	I'll give it to you, okay.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0166par0593	Mr. President, I asked before Mr. CSI Commission President.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0161par0594	But he'll explain.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0167par0597	Respected President, my fellow congressmen, when I begin my words, I salute you all with my most heartfelt feelings. During the speech of our friend Akif Bey, the Deputy President of the Precious Group, he has just spoken a few sentences on the bet, since reports have not been discussed by the CSI Commission. I honestly say that our commission is doing its work schedule and sending this program to all of our fellow lawmakers, and all of the audited institutions are being audited by our Commission yearly. By the way, our commission has made it clear to the press that due to a block from the Petroleum Act, the Turkish Petroleum Association and BOTAŞ have all the talks except for their account and transactions. I won't go any further. But all of our fellow lawmakers, especially Mr. Group Vice President, with their power and opposition, if any of you have any doubts about the work of the CIT Commission, please take some time, please, let us welcome you to our Commission, follow our commission's work. I want you to witness firsthand how democratically we work, how transparently and publicly we talk about everything, and how they can bring up everything that our government, opposition, all of our fellow lawmakers have hesitated about. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0168par0604	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0169par0605	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0168par0606	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0170par0607	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0168par0608	I'll give it to you. Here you go, two minutes, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0171par0610	Mr. President, I actually wanted a word to share my sorrows. The issue of violence against the woman is a very important problem in this House and society; it's growing every day, it can't be prevented. I regret the discussion between the ruling party and the main opposition party during the meeting of our motion demanding the establishment of a parliamentary commission to determine the measures that must be taken against this. I consider it at least disrespectful to the woman that a meaningless and inconclusive discussion was brought here by digging up the past, regardless of the subject of violence. In other words, we bring to the agenda of the General Assembly a matter that we consider important as the National Movement Party Group. It's our right to expect you to respect that. So I would like to invite our groups, the valued lawmakers who are speaking here, to actually stick to the issue, to express their opinions by sticking to it, because this group's proposals are an internal charter that the government does not bring to the agenda, but is used to address the important issues of society, but if we put it in the context of discussion between us, it would be abuse, abuse. I express my regrets again and invite everyone to be sensitive about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0172par0615	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0173par0617	Mr. President, there are some flaws in the CSI Commissioner's statement regarding the CSI Commission. I want word on article 60.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0174par0618	What's missing? If you love God, what does he lack?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0172par0619	Okay. I'll give it to you after the friend. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0175par0622	Mr. President, Congressman, I'm saying, Mr. President, I don't want to drop the courtesy again. I also condemn your attack with a mallet just now. We'll have the reports in a minute. We also know that you said an unspeakable thing with the microphones on. Therefore, I would like to invite you to come to discipline without breaking the same level of discipline. For once, you're supposed to be an independent president, you're supposed to be directing the House independently, but you're acting like you're going to hit us over the head with the words thrown out of another group while you're ignoring the words thrown out of the AKP Group. I condemn you. If you're doing this because of your illness, it's even worse. I'm speaking to the AKP Group: If he's really ill, please let the Deputy Speaker of Parliament step down, get himself treated, and then speak from this bench.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0176par0625	Speak with respect! Don't talk like that, be respectful!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0177par0626	This isn't coffee!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0178par0627	Please, let's not cross the line of discipline. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0179par0628	On behalf of the AKP Group...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0178par0629	Mr. Speaker, please let's not cross the discipline line.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0179par0630	I'm not over the line of discipline, but, Mayor, you're over the bench, you're over the line of decency. Please, I'd like to invite you to come up with some manners. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, Mr. Canikli has repeatedly spoken to our past from here. Mr. Group Vice President has come out of his heart to remove the immunity of 135 MPs here. If you can afford it, if you can afford it, come and get it. We'll give it to you right now, we'll give it to you now. Yeah, come on, let's go!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0180par0633	People already have, people have!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0179par0634	What is it? Sir, it's expired. We'll make a law, we'll break the statute of limitations, don't worry. If you can afford it, if you can have it, we can make it happen. My head of the C.E.C.C.E. has said things here that have nothing to do with it, but we're all living together on how it's been covered up.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0181par0636	What's wrong? Tell us one thing we're wrong!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0179par0637	I'll give you samples. You approve that a member of an audit board is a general manager, and you say that this is wrong when you evaluate the next OSCE. Let's get the transcripts, let's read them together, let's all read them together.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0181par0638	What's that got to do with anything? Did we limit your speech?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0179par0639	Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0182par0641	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0183par0642	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0182par0643	Could you wrap it up in a minute, please?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0184par0644	What's the matter, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0185par0645	Mr. President, who did I pick on?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0182par0646	I'm just going to make a design. You said it, so that's enough.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0185par0647	No, why did I pick on you? What's wrong with me? Please let him say it. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0182par0648	Tell him, sir, tell him. Calm down.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0185par0649	Then I want a word in advance, and I want a word in advance, whatever he has to say. That's not gonna happen! For God's sake!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0182par0650	Here you go. One moment, please...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0186par0653	Mr. President, the most important problem we have in our audit studies as members of the Public Economic Initiative Commission is that, unfortunately, lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party interrupt our talks when a tender with the Prime Minister's family, which we think is illegal in its own business life.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0187par0655	What contract? What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0186par0656	That's not why I'm mad at them. What I'm saying is that no matter what president is, if he's got the general president's in-laws as a bargaining contract, this nation has to answer for it, that's my job. We'll all ask together. If I have a president, we'll ask him.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0188par0658	If you have a document, speak up. If you have a document, speak up.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0186par0659	But that's why I'm Republican People's Party. My president-in-law's in-laws won't be in this tender, his son won't be in this tender. That's why I'm Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0188par0660	If you have a warrant, speak up.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0186par0661	We'll come back here and show you the same. Let's remove your immunity and ask for the rights of the undamaged orphan. Do you have any heart? No matter who does it, no matter who's President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0188par0662	If you have a document, speak up. If you have a warrant, speak up. If you have a warrant, speak up.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0186par0663	I have a document, the Court wrote it, so what else? The institutions under your command, what else? What else do we do? I give you my regards.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0189par0666	Mr. Erdoğdu, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0190par0667	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0189par0668	Please, before you start picking on me again, in one minute...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0190par0670	Mr. President, I regretfully followed the words of my congressman friend. Look, an institution that belongs to us doesn't write these reports, the Court, which is a constitutional institution, writes these reports. If you do not know that the Court is bound to Parliament, that it has been audited in the name of Parliament, then take the stand first, knowingly.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0191par0672	It says the Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board. Do not speak if you do not know.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0190par0673	When a claim is made about the Prime Minister or anyone else, we're just saying that whatever you're talking about, please, the press is here, the public is watching, bring your document, talk to the document. We said, we said nothing else.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0192par0674	You're shutting them all down!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0190par0675	If you have a document, please speak with the document, and do not swear in the dark.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0193par0676	It's a document!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0190par0677	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit02spe0194par0679	Thank you. Dear MPs, talks on the nationalist Action Party group proposal have been completed. Now, I'm going to put it to your votes, and I'm going to ask for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor of the nationalist movement group... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break, as a lunch break.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0194par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the 19th Amendment, which I'll have you read and vote on, but during the meeting just now, in the debate, I actually listened to the tape, it's not clear there, but it seems to come out of my mouth that there's something in the transcripts that doesn't fit in the House's hammock, that doesn't suit me personally, and that we can't fit any of our friends. I would like to declare to my friends that I would never do anything like this to anyone or to any of my friends or to any group, really, willingly or intentionally. After all, even if there was no direct contact with anyone in this mess, even if there was no direct contact with a group, such a statement should not have come out of my mouth. Really, if any of our friends were taken from this or a group was taken, I apologize to my friend in public and to that group. Really, something like this, my word never...
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0195par0006	The TV broadcast's gone, but... the TV feed's gone, and you wait till seven!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0194par0007	No, that's not... Really, I listened, and then I looked at the records, and it turns out that something that shouldn't be done here came out of my mouth. Therefore, on behalf of the House of Assembly and on behalf of this Presidential Court, I apologize for my sincere desire to do such a thing to any friend or group. Appreciation is of the High Council.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0196par0010	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0194par0011	This is Deputy Director Muharrem Ence.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0196par0014	Yes, Mr. President, I can't say, Congressman, I salute you all. Now, first of all, it's 19 o'clock. I blame you for wanting to shut down a disgrace that was done here, waiting for the end of Parliament TV broadcasts. Secondly, I'm warning the House bureaucrats. I gave my speech, I sat down. And then there's the talking. This is Mr. President speaking, Mr. President speaking in a manner of speaking. At that moment, the phones are working, they're calling me, we didn't hear it in that noise. Twitter, Facebook, the Internet is going to hell; people are writing the President's curses. People go crazy, texting. In the meantime, I say: "Bring the prisoners. " They don't bring the papers. I'm having the House TV Director call it in. Parliament TV Director turns off his phone, runs away from his place. Now, I warn those bureaucrats: Look, you precious bureaucrats, you are not an officer of the AKP, you are officers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you are obliged to serve all of us. Know your place, don't be afraid, be brave.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0197par0018	Celebrate the stenographers.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0196par0019	I also celebrate stenographers, of course. They'll write down whatever's in there, write down whoever said it. This isn't the inn. Mr. President, this can't be solved with an apology. It's not a promise that one congressman told another MP with that anger and tension at the time. This is the first time on the presidential bench. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk sat on that bench. When he sat on the bench, he led a war, this Parliament, war. There's one law being passed: CHP's, MP's, AKP's, BDP's proposals are being discussed; there's been a slight tension, and the President's mouth has been spoken out with that tension! When the voice of the enemy artillery was heard from Poletlı, the rulers of this assembly did not say so. Is he out of your league to say such a thing? Even in the tensest moments of running that coven, that didn't come out of their mouths. A week ago, you're going to push the speaker on the stand, and a week later, you're going to swear at the House Presidential Court! This person cannot be president of this House! (CHP clapping in rows) He can't do it! On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I call all my deputies to this stand. Here you go, fellas. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, as long as he's sitting there, we're not leaving this bench.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0198par0025	What the hell!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0196par0026	Here you go, my friends. Here you go, my friends. Here you go, my friends. Here you go, my friends. Here you go, my friends. Here you go, my friends.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0198par0028	Shame on you guys!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0199par0029	No way!
tbmm-2011-11-22sit03spe0200par0030	Dear friends, I'm taking a break from the merger. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-22sit04spe0201par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There are no clerks. Since the Presidential Court does not support the decision, it is Wednesday (November 23rd 2011) that we discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Wednesday (November 23rd 2011). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
