tbmm-2011-06-28sit01spe0001par0001	Honourable members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I am opening the First Amendment of the First Legislature of the 24th Legislature of Turkey under the 3rd and 8th Articles of the Supreme Assembly. Respected members, we have a majority. At the beginning of my words, I consider it my duty to honor and cherish all members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey who have served from April 23, 1920 to today. Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the institution that concreteises the sovereignty of our nation unconditionally. I'd like to stress it in the belief that I'm an interpreter to your thoughts and feelings. In any of the past legislatures, swearing ceremonies were not incomplete due to the arrests of candidates who had won the title of MP. Today, eight of our MPs are deprived of doing what our nation has given them. In the face of history, I'm recording my belief that such a situation is contrary both to the glorious past of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and to the level of development that our democracy has reached. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've left behind a busy, exhausting, occasionally offensive campaign of choice. In the beginning of this election, the Justice and Development Party, which came out of its own power to form a government, celebrates all the parties and you, one and all the honorable members, and I wish that the authority we receive from our nation be crowned with your services. Ladies and gentlemen, 50 years ago, I was one of the youngest members to serve under this sacred roof, and now I stand before you as the oldest member and interim president. At that time, the Founder's Assembly had made the most democratic constitution in our history of law and politics. Fifty years later, your grand coven, gathered today, begins its mission to build a new constitution, just like him. I wish our new constitution to be made with a genuine understanding and a genuine compromise of the fundamental values of the founding philosophy and fundamentals that cannot even be offered to change the republic. As a friend of yours who's given his life to journalism, I want this constitution to contain assurances that will put an end to communication and freedom of expression and press debates in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to share with you some of my observations on this day when the Supreme Assembly began its mission due to its new legislature. We're a great country created by a great nation. This fact puts us, especially in the countries around us, in charge of setting an example. We've given this important mission the right to democracy in our country so far. We're the only country in the Islamic world who can do that because we're the only ones in the geography who have the charm of living democracy. The secular order is the name of this talisman. I'm sure the High Council will protect this important truth as a sacred value, especially when it comes to drafting a new constitution. Honourable members, our President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Applause]] [[Invasion March]] Congressmans, as I have just stated, we are a great nation created by a great nation. This fact puts us, especially in the countries around us, in charge of setting an example. We've given this important mission the right to democracy in our country so far. We're the only country in the Islamic world who can do that because we're the only ones in the geography who have the charm of living democracy. ▪ The secular state order is the name of this talisman. I'm sure the High Council will protect this important truth as a sacred value, especially when it comes to drafting a new constitution. Honourable MPs will now perform the oath ceremony according to Article 81 of our Constitution. Swearing is the exact reading of the text in this article, in a loud voice. An oath is an inextricable condition for the elected MP to be able to serve in this capacity. That's why I have to take the oath first as interim president. Other members of the Court and other lawmakers will be called to swear in alphabetical order, according to the last name, when the name of their electoral circles is read. Now I'm carrying out this mission: I swear on the rule of law, the democratic and secular Republic and the Ataturk principles and the teachings of society; on my honor and honor, that everyone should take advantage of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the sense of peace and national solidarity and justice, and that I will not be separated from the country and the Constitution. [[Applause]] The honorable members will begin the oath from Adana, and will continue in alphabetical order. I'd like to make an important request as the Presidential Court to ensure that our work is completed without causing a waste of time. According to you, the commission lines on the left side of the court are empty, as you can see. The MPs will please step up from their seats and sit in the commission desks and wait their turn here. I'd like to ask members who have a medical condition or who want to take an oath without waiting their turn for a reasonable excuse to apply for the presidency. I find it worth attracting the attention of the audiences who have come to watch today's merger before they take the oath. Listeners must quietly observe the work of the General Assembly as part of the Turkish Parliament's Interior Charter, and those who do not comply will be removed from the General Assembly hall by the officials. Finally, honorable lawmakers, I would like to ask all of you to help the President's Court to do its duty in a way worthy of the character of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, we continue our vows from the province of Adana. Murat Bozlak... no. Omar Steel. Ali Demirçalı... Turgay Develi... Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç. Fatosh Gürkan. Ali Halaman. Ali Littlea morning. Osman Faruk Logoglu... Hope Ozgim... Necdet Ünuvar. Muharrem OARLI. You looked it up, Yilmaz. Salih Frak... no. Ahmet Topstone... no. Halil Aksoy... Ramis Topal... no. Honourable MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a beautiful tradition; while every legislature takes its place at the beginning of the legislature, when it comes to Ankara, a moment of silence is held in the spiritual presence of our country's Bani and our nation's devoted, faithful act, the mumtaz face of the human ideal, the unique hero Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I invite you on this sacred mission: [[Respect has been held]] God rest his soul. We now resume the oath ceremony. Suleiman Senser Ayata... no. Sinan Aydın Aygün... no. Ayþe Gülsin Bilgehan... no. Izzet Cetin... no. Levent Gök... Good morning Gökhan... Mehmet Emrehan Halici... Bulent Kuşoglu... Aylin Nazliaka... Emine Ulir Tarhan... Gürkut Acar... Deniz Baykal... Arif Cloud... Mevlüt Sergeant... no. Osman Captain... The Starburst... Ensar Öğüt... Ugur Flagtutan... Osman Aydın... Metin Lütfi Baydar... Bulent Tezcan... Ayşe Nedret Akova... Haluk Ahmet Silver... Namik Havutça... Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya... Ayla Akat Ata... Bengi Star... Idris Bauken... Husamettin Zenderlioğlu... Tanju Özcan... Ramadan Kerim Özkan... Ilhan Demiröz... Kemal Sokci... Aykan Erdemir... Sena Kaleli... Turhan Tayan... Ali Sarıbaş... Mustafa Serdar Soydan... Flood Köse... Ilhan Cihaner... Adnan Keskin... Nursel Aydoğan... Emine Mirror... You have, Ambassador... Golden Tan... Leyla Zana... Kemal Milldereli... Recep Gürkan...
tbmm-2011-06-28sit01spe0002par0248	Mr. President, alert the audience, sir, the audience is applauding.
tbmm-2011-06-28sit01spe0001par0249	I asked our citizens who came to watch the merger not to cheer in any way. Our members have been warned that such events have occurred. If our viewers, our viewers, break down the peace during the talks, the officers will take them out. I'm warning you again. Thank you. Moving on. Muharrem Light... Badii Suheyl Batum... Kazim Kurt... Ali Serindağ... Mehmet Sugar... Salaamtin Karaahmetoglu... Assad Canan... Salaamtin Demirtaş... Fair Wolf... Hasan Akgöl... Mevlüt Dudu... Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu... Refik Eryılmaz... Pervin Buldan... Ali Haydar Proposes... Sabat Akkiray... Engin Alan... Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu... Aydın Agha Ayadın... Ihsan Gunpowder... Ercan Genghis... Süleyman Çelebi... Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu... Celal Dinçer... Aykut Erdoğdu... Haluk Eyiborn... Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi... Kemal Kilicdaroğlu... Osman Taney Kurkurk... Sedef Small... Melda Onur... Hope Oran... A Remembrance of the Mighty Sky. The secret is the leader of Durarya... Ali Original... Ihsan Ozkes... Dawn Pavey... Müslim Sarı... Fatma Nur Serter... Bihlun Tamayligil... Mahmut Tanal... Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu... Gursel Tekin... Binnaz Earth... Erdogan Earth... D. Ali Torlak Faik Tunay... Sebahat Tuncel... Abdullah Levent corporate... Erdal Aksinger... Mustafa Ali Balbay... Musa Pine... Aytun Çiray... Birgül Güler (Ayman)... Hülya Trust... Mustafa Moroglu... Thank you, Güldal Mumman... Oğuz Oyan... Mehmet Ali Sesame... The Fertility of Love... Reza Mahmoud Turmen... Alaatin Ascension... Stewy Truster... No Mr. Trust, sir?
tbmm-2011-06-28sit01spe0003par0429	He'll be here in a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-06-28sit01spe0001par0430	No. It's stopped, Özbolat... One on the property... Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu... Turgut Dibek... Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu... Haydar Akar... Hursit Sun... Mehmet Crescent Kaplan... Attila Card... Veli Agha... Hasan Ören... Sakine Öz... Free Special... I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 1st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the vow ceremony where we left off. Erol Dora... Ahmet Türk... Gülser Yıldırım... The Moonslayer... Jesus Sky... Ertugrul Furci... Ali Riza Ozturk... He chooses Vacay... Omar Suha Aldan... Tolga Chandar... Nurettin Demir... Iron Steel... The secret is Sakık... Born Dawn... Idris Star... Engin Özkoch... Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan... Ahmet Haluk Ram... Gültan Kışanak... Engin Altay... Malik Ecder Özdemir... Ibrahim Ayhan... Ibrahim Rider...
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0004par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0001par0105	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0004par0106	Mr. President, the swearing-in ceremony is not in order.
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0005par0107	Mr. President, those under oath may speak, sir.
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0004par0109	Then those who do not swear should not speak in the rear. Mr. President, there's no such thing as an audience clapping in the House.
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0006par0111	Mr. Tünce, I've called the officers upstairs before, at the beginning of the session and in between, to do their duty. This is the President's order. I can't do anything else right now. I've asked the officers there to do their duty before, and it's customary for them to do so. Moving on, sir. Selma River... Hasip Kaplan... Faysal Yellow Star... Emre Bridgel... Faik Öztrak... "Glory to the Heart..." Orhan Slept... Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu... Hüseyin Aygün... Kamer Young... Dilek Akagün Yilmaz... Kemal Aktaş... Nazmi Gür... Aysel Tugluk... Özdal Threeer... Muharrem Tül... Mehmet Haberal... Ali Ihsan Kokturk... Congressmans, at the beginning of the merger, when they were in the General Assembly Hall and their names were read, I stated that the MPs who didn't swear were not here. I'm reading the names of the members of the law that I have stated were not present when they were present:
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0007par0170	What's the point?
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0006par0171	Ahmet Topstone
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0008par0175	Yes, but, President, why are you reading?
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0007par0176	Is that necessary, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0006par0177	Süleyman Yansar Ayata
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0008par0178	Why are you reading this? There's no such thing!
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0006par0179	Sinan Aydın Aygün
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0008par0182	Mr. President, why are you reading?
tbmm-2011-06-28sit02spe0006par0183	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, for your information. Members of lawmakers, when their names are read, I will have them read the names of lawmakers who have not been found and have not taken oaths from lawmakers who have asked to be sworn in, and I will invite them to take an oath. Members of parliament, members of parliament who have not taken an oath in this merger, will be sworn in at the beginning of their first merger with the General Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. No. : 1 Date: 28/06/2011 At a meeting of the advisory council on Tuesday (28/6/2011), the additional proposals were approved by the General Assembly. 1 - Turkey's Grand National Assembly continued its work on July 1, 2011, without taking a vacation, according to Article 5 of the Council of Turkey. 2 - It's 14 a.m. Monday, 4/7/2011, to vote for the president of the Grand National Assembly of the TBMM. The meeting at 00, the continuing work in this merger until the President is elected, It's recommended. Congressmans, those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The next merger will be the election of the President of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In accordance with Article 94 of our Constitution, candidates for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be announced to the Interim Presidential Court within five days of Tuesday (June 28th 2011) when the Assembly meets. According to this, presidential candidates, Saturday, July 2, 2011, 24 p.m. It can be reported by 00. According to the decision you've just made, the President's election is scheduled for Monday (July 4th 2011) at 2:00 p.m. It will begin at 00. Turkey's Grand National Assembly President's election is scheduled for Monday (July 4th 2011) at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
