tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0001par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the Third Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, following yesterday's elections, I have the honor and excitement of starting a sacred mission, such as Parliamentary Presidency. I want to thank you all once again and thank you for the kindness you've shown me. I wish the new era to our country, to our nation, to all of us again. Honourable lawmakers, I would like to point out that during my term in office, I will take the utmost care of becoming an impartial Speaker under the Constitution, the Civil Code and the law and in accordance with the rules of our Parliament. I will make an effort to ensure that the legal and constitutional regulations that our country needs can be carried out under this roof within the environment of reconciliation. From now on, I will be guided by your support, constructive warning, criticism, and contributions. This Parliament, which rules our Liberation War and declares our republic, has guided the fate of our country from its foundation to today. Our country, which is the symbol of our independence and freedom, led by our Parliament, has taken great distances in the 90 years we have left behind. Our great Assembly, in the case of our democracy, modernization, the greatest power of development, has always been the hope of our nation by acting with a sense of high responsibility. Turkey has become one of the world's leading countries today from a situation that struggles to exist in poverty. Our Parliament has a great share in Turkey's coming to this point. Our House, which has enlightened our country from the shadow of captivity to independence, is the only institution that will find the most realistic solutions to all our problems that exist, to the benefit of our nation. This institution, the heart of our democracy, has always been successful in creating a way that opens the way for our nation and our country. As long as our parliament maintains its ability and power to create solutions, the progress of our democracy, the radicalization of our freedoms, the efforts of our country's development will continue. The way to overcome the problems of democracy is to effectively and efficiently run our House. And the way to do that, once again, is to do an effective and efficient work with the participation of our lawmakers who have not been sworn in by the Supreme Court. It is our duty to find the right solutions for our nation, together with its power and opposition, and to open the way for our country. In democratic maturity, we can discuss every problem of our country here. The only way to overcome any problem that arises is to make our coven work harder. Our people don't expect us to work harder in terms of tension, crisis, mutual resilience, but rather in terms of understanding the solution to problems. As Parliament Speaker, I invite all my fellow MPs to do our nation's best to participate in the work of our Parliament and to solve our problems together. Respected lawmakers, after a high turnout of 83 per cent in a democratic environment, our nation's superior will has been reborn under this lofty roof through you. Our nation, which once again showed the success of running democracy in these elections, has provided the formation of our Parliament, which has a high representation rate of 95%. As a result of the democratic choices made by our people with great maturity, our House has been greatly renewed, our number of women MPs have reached the highest point in the history of the Republic. Again, the number of young and disabled lawmakers has increased under this lofty roof, where each section of our people, each group of professions, is largely represented. The new structure of our parliament is, in fact, a very important opportunity for us to solve our country's problems that have been gangrene for years. This puts every member of parliament in our parliament in a separate position of responsibility to our friends and groups. We don't have any excuses anymore. With such a high rate of representation and a variety of structures, there is no problem that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can't solve, no obstacle it can't overcome, as long as we're together in a goodwill effort. As the majority renewed, renewed 24th-century Parliament, the main goal in the future is a new constitution. It is imperative that this Constitution, which bears the scars of its time, is behind the pace of our country's development and its social demands, should be changed. The content of our constitution is full of law mines that act as we step on it. The moment we feel that everything is going well, the thrill of our democracy's development, our country faces new legal problems, constitutional crises. The situation that has caused us to waste our social energy is both tiring our country and our nation and delaying us in the race of modern civilization. Complaining about problems and not being able to come together for solutions also weakens the trust in the political institution. Our coven is not only a place of complaint and criticism but also a centre of resolution, we will find this solution together. Therefore, I would like our Parliament to continue its activities by showing us the common sense and consensus that is expected of us in the coming process, not by searching for the separate points, but by searching for the possible points. Again, it is our duty to find solutions to the terror problem that has caused our people great pain since the past. Yesterday, just after I was elected Speaker, I attended the funeral of a martyr in the Mosque of Kobytepe. Today, sad news has come from Hakari, Ankara. We've all been through this together with our nation before we could have the happiness of being elected Speaker of Parliament. I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. All these painful events, the martyrs who have been given the undivided integrity of the country since the past, have also increased our responsibility to resolve this painful problem. Our Parliament is the only institution that will lead to solving terrorism with social common sense without leaving democracy. A climate of tensions and prejudices instead of democratic dialogue will not benefit our country and no one. As Speaker of the House, I urge everyone to be discreet about maintaining social peace and peace on this grand bench. My fellow lawmakers, with the power of the 24th-century Parliament, I truly believe that you will do important work that will be remembered by our nation with appreciation and gratitude for your valuable contributions. In that understanding, I'm sure our Parliament will bring about the best solutions for the benefits of our country and our nation. As Speaker, I would like to be known that I will make the effort to establish the necessary grounds for the reconciliation of the basic arrangements our country needs. I have no doubt that we will continue our work in mutual love, respect, and respect for each other's law. With these feelings, I thank you once again for the trust you've shown me, and now I move on to the issues on the agenda, and I salute you all once again.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0002par0018	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0001par0019	Dear lawmakers, according to the Constitutional Court, MPs must take an oath before they take office. I will now call to the stand the members of lawmakers who have not taken an oath in this joint. Yes, if anyone wants to make an oath... not that I understand.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0003par0022	Mr. President, about the procedure...
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0001par0024	Now, the Prime Minister's office has a thesis given according to Article 92 of the Constitution, which I will read and process first and then submit to your votes.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0003par0025	Mr. President, I'm saying something. The House shouldn't be working today. ▪ To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... Just a minute, sir... Now, Congress, look, he can't do legislature today, because he didn't thank the Presidential Court, sir. On 11 August 2006, the Security Council of the United Nations approved... Mr. President, wait a minute, I'm saying something.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0004par0035	I'm on the agenda, and we're bringing you up to speed on the agenda. Yeah, let's keep reading.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0003par0037	No, sir, it can't work unless the House thanks to the Presidential Court, sir. In accordance with decision number 1701 (2006) and Turkish Parliament's 5/9/2006 resolution 880, Turkey has contributed to the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) with the elements of the Armed Forces. The Interim Presidential Court's mission is over. Mr. President, look, we're saying something serious here. What you're going to do... you can't run the House today as Parliament Speaker. The Court didn't. You can't work with those temp clerks! The deadline for this permit has been extended by September 5, 2010, dated 24/6/2010 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, don't you hear what we're talking about here? You can't run it. The Presidential Court didn't. Read the 8th and 11th articles of the Civil Code! With its contributions to the UNIFIL ground operation and the naval task force, Turkey has effectively carried out an important function in the implementation of the peacekeeping operation, thus improving its appearance within the United Nations system, both on a regional and global scale, and amplifying its status. Turkey's participation in UNIFIL has contributed significantly to the continuation of its policy to maintain peace and stability in the region. UNIFIL will end its mandate on 31 August 2011 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after 31 August 2011. The political environment in Lebanon and the security environment are thought to be appropriate for our military elements in the country to continue their duties. In light of these issues and the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and the security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate, I will allow the provisions of Turkish Armed Forces, which will be determined by the government, under Article 92 of the Constitution under the United Nations Security Council's Decision No. 1701, and under the principles determined by the decision of the 880 TBMM, to participate in UNIFIL operations for another year from September 5, 2011, and to carry out the necessary arrangements on this issue.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0005par0049	Dear MPs, I'm going to hold a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. Now on behalf of the government regarding the thesis, Mr. Vecdi Gonul, Minister of National Defence. Here you go, Mr. Heart.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0006par0053	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as I speak, I wish the 24th Legislature to be good for our country, for our nation, and I sincerely congratulate our Speaker of Parliament on his new post, and I wish the Turkish Grand National Assembly a new era of success. Mr. President, we've lost two sergeants today, I'm afraid. These are Adana Kozan, 1986-born Infantry Sergeant Murat Özkanoğlu and Kayseri Pınarbaş 1985-born Marine Sergeant Yahya Karakaya. These two sergeants were shot to death at very close range when they left their homes in civilian clothing around 7:00 this morning. I wish them mercy. I hereby declare this abomination, this murder, and I would like to express my belief that, as Mr. President just stated, the purpose of our martyrs, the unity of our country, the glory of our state, and that these sacrifices for the welfare of our people will be well appreciated by our House. We also had a car crash in a military convoy headed for Şemdinli district of Hakkari. Eight of us were injured. I wish them a speedy recovery. Mr. President, members of the United Nations' Interim Task Force Unit -- still found -- is at your disposal to announce the grounds of the High Council when the UNIFIL Council warns on Article 92 of the Constitution. The Middle East, which has rich natural resources and the potential for a prosperous future, has been in turmoil and conflict for years, unfortunately. Of course, it is not possible for us to be indifferent to the developments in this region because of our political, economic and historical, human and cultural ties with the Middle East, as well as the reflections of regional developments on our domestic and foreign policy. In the same way, peace, security, stability and prosperity have an absolute relationship in countries in the region, especially our neighbours, and Turkey's national interests are being defended and improved. In this direction, Turkey prioritizes the dialogue and reconciliation of problems in the Middle East, instead of conflict, it aims to dominate solidarity and co-operation culture. Our country is acting in its effort and effort to meet its obligations through peaceful, primitive and effective foreign security policy through its international institutions, both as a single force and as part of them. As for our relations with Lebanon, lawmakers, our relations with Lebanon are extremely important in terms of the peace of the Middle East. Basically, Lebanon is a key country in the stability of the entire region. As you know, Lebanon was again exposed to blood, tears, and great destruction in 2006, when it was a relative recovery period in the early 90s. In this framework, Turkey has made intense efforts to end the Israeli-Lubnan War (Israel-Lubnan War) and to bring an end to a large area of expansion and serious dimensions in the summer of 2006, and has played an active role in establishing an international security force in Lebanon, according to UN Security Council Resolution 1701, which took place on August 11, 2006. In this scope, Turkey has contributed to the relief of humanitarian problems in Lebanon, continuing its urgent humanitarian aid to the people of Lebanon and Palestine. On 24-25 July 2006, the relief unit from the personnel transport evacuated our citizens from Beirut to Mersin, who had no life safety due to the conflicts in Lebanon. During this period, the return of 2,000 citizens from Lebanon to Turkey and the release of more than 10,000 third citizens from Turkey. In addition, the TCG Bafra (F505) corded off to Beirut-Lubnan, on July 30, 2006, for humanitarian aid. The most important outcome of this decision is the United Nations Temporary Task Force of Lebanon, which is now the subject of the thesis. The mission of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) was generally determined to end the conflicts and monitor the ceasefire, to deliver humanitarian aid to civilians, to help prevent borders from being secured and weapons entering the country without the government's consent. The United Nations member states have been asked to allocate additional troops to support UNIFIL elements in order to meet the tasks set out in the decision. I would like to remind you all once again that the United Nations has decided that armed elements in the UNIFIL area will not be used in any mission, including deletion of weapons. The political climate in Lebanon and the security environment are also considered appropriate for our military elements in the country to continue their duties. Given the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and the security situation in the region, at the request of our government, the Supreme Assembly has approved the participation of Turkish Armed Forces elements, which will be established by the government on September 5, 2006, with decision 880. In this framework, the troops and ships, which we have contributed to UNIFIL's naval and land forces, have been deployed in the region since 2006. Turkey is contributing to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force with a frigate or a corvette or an assault boat, given the seasonal conditions. And what we've already contributed is an assault boat. In the village of Co-host in the city of Sur, 261 personnel and construction units have been deployed. In addition, we have a total of 4 headquarters officers, including 3 and 1 in the Naval Task Force, at UNIFIL's Nakura headquarters in Lebanon. The port of Mersin was announced as the designated port for the use of countries participating in UNIFIL under UN Security Council Resolution 1701. In addition, Alexander's Port has been used to provide logistical support since the end of August 2008. The Turkish construction company has completed 14 border stones on the Lebanon-Israel line with 221 projects, including the restoration and maintenance of main supply roads, heliport construction and maintenance, implementation of infrastructure activities, reconstruction of existing buildings and structures, construction of new structures, building shelters, construction of 221 projects, as part of missions carried out by UNIFIL since 20 October 2006. Our Turkish construction company has also earned the recognition of the region's citizens in its civil-military cooperation activities, which UNIFIL has carried out in addition to its duties. In this scope, 27 generators were delivered to schools and municipalities in the village, Sur headquarters, 14 children's playgrounds were installed, 13 computer classrooms were opened, 130 computer facilities were available to use in five classrooms, women's education centers were set up, the village and village roads were expanded, and nine constructions were performed in nine areas. More than 5,000 civilian patients have been examined in a school conference, theater, health screening. As a result, 105 projects have been implemented in civilian-military cooperation. Mr. President, the valuable MPs are not just the activities of our military unit that Turkey has helped this region. TİKA has built a hospital in the city of Sayda with a closed space of 14,000 square metres, and the equipment of this hospital is fully covered by Turkey. The money here is over $17 million. In addition, it has traveled three cities - TİKA, 40km of water supply and 2,300 meters. In addition, TİKA restored the Tripoli Mevlevihane and the Clock Tower, offering an ambulance to Al Burah Municipality. The 2010 development aid is more than $26 million. Our construction company and the U.N. Secretary of the United Nations signed agreements and aid letters to pay the costs of our marine troops. In this framework, the costs of our military elements are covered by the United Nations. That includes additional fees paid to our troops. Turkish Armed Forces continue to contribute to peace in the world and in the light of Ataturk. In UNIFIL, about 12,000 personnel from all countries, including Turkey, are serving in Turkey, as well as countries that contribute power to the UNIFIL.: Belgium, Bangladesh, Denmark, Belarus, Serbia, Brazil, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Nigeria, Brunei, China, Croatia, El Salvador, France, Macedonia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, Malaysia, Portugal, Qatar, Korea, Sierra Leone, Spain. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are an undeniable fact that Lebanon's sociopolitic fabric is based on delicate balances, that the parameters of the local conjunctural conjunctive and Lebanese internal policy are complex and difficult. The current problems between Israel and Lebanon, the Lebanon Special Court process, and especially the events in Syria, have a potential force that will dramatically affect the progress of current developments. Maintaining peace, calm and stability in Lebanon is more important than ever in such a national and regional conjunctive. Therefore, UNIFIL is needed to continue its mission, which UNIFIL has successfully carried out so far. Mr. President, lawmakers, security and stability on the Lebanese-Israeli border and in the region are still under way after the implementation of UNIFIL (United Nations Security Council Decision No. 1701) and the deployment of the expanded UNIFIL (UNIFIL). The parties have followed the ceasefire under Resolution 1701. The Lebanese army was deployed to southern Lebanon and continued to contribute to the maintenance of peace, security and stability under UNIFIL's concept of action and the rules of engagement. Lebanon has not attempted public movements that affect many countries in the region through its own social structure and functioning constitutional system, but has succeeded in establishing government even in this complex environment within the region. Thus, in order to produce permanent solutions over time through dialogue and reconciliation, the stability of these problems must be maintained with the contribution of UNIFIL. It is important not only for Lebanon but also for the region. The destabilisation of Lebanon is stable from previous events and experiences that will also affect the stability of the region. Mr. President, members of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 and UNIFIL have been temporarily appointed as a year's term, which has been decreed to be extended every year if necessary. UNIFIL's mandate, which has so far contributed significantly to stabilisation on the border with Lebanon and Israel, has been extended regularly every year. The mandate is expected to be extended by the United Nations Security Council for another year, starting on 31 August 2011. In light of these assessments, the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and the security conditions in the region have been taken into consideration and the UN Security Council has decided to extend its mandate of UNIFIL and the amount of Turkish Armed Forces, which will be determined by the government by the government, under Article 1701 of the United Nations Security Council and Article 880 under the principles determined by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0007par0075	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will now promise the party groups regarding the Prime Ministerial thesis. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first word is Mr. Mehmet Şandir. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0008par0080	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Prime Minister's thesis on allowing Turkish Armed Forces to join the UNIFIL operation for another year as of September 5, 2011, under the UN Templar Task Force. First of all, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the National Movement Party, we will first vote favourably for this government thesis. At the request of the people of Lebanon, we will support the Turkish Armed Forces to serve in Lebanon for another year if the UN's Temporal Task Force UNIFIL will decide to extend its mandate. Dear MPs, I'm about to present to you the reasons for this decision by the National Movement Party's Parliamentary Group, but if you'll excuse me, I would like to first express my wishes and wishes at this opening session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. First, I ask that the 24th century bring good results to our nation, to our country, to our Parliament, to our political parties, and to you precious MPs. I also wish for the work of our nation and democracy to be done in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The elections are complete. At the end of many plays on our party, our nation has served as opposition to our party for its own reasons. First of all, we respect our nation's appreciation. With the work we're going to do here, we're going to try to be worthy of the task our nation has entrusted us with. I want you to know that our opposition mission, first of all, is the national position of compromise, tolerance, open to dialogue, not creating problems, but contributing to solving problems, but in the future of our country and our nation. We're going to put it on the table. Once again, I wish you the best of luck to our new members of parliament and to all the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, I congratulate you on being elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 24th term. Our council group applauded our congratulations on your election yesterday. As you said in your thank-you speech, I believe you'll overcome a very honorable mission in the lifetime of a mortal, the Parliamentary presidency, and I wish you success, and may God not embarrass you. We also made an unnecessary start in the 24th century, which was actually a difficult period of our country, which was meant to be transformed, especially under pressure from events and projects in our region. I hope that this process, which is called the Boykot and the Vault crisis, will be a source of hope to overcome this difficult process in front of our country, beyond the overcoming of the crisis of your effort and positive outcome to end it as soon as possible, and I want to remind you, as our Parliament Speaker, that we have the obligation to overcome this crisis as soon as possible to ensure everyone's participation and contribution, because as you've expressed, the problem is that we will be able to overcome this problem in order to regain its credible, reliable, prestigious image, and I want to remind you that we will be responsible for this crisis, or everyone's participation in this crisis. My dear President, although you have been nominated and elected by the proposals of the Justice and Development Party members, as your founder, I would like to believe that you are now the President of the People's Assembly, and that you will act accordingly. I want to believe again that you will show an approach that allows every part of our nation to express itself freely, that you will lead the House with equal understanding and justice with the representatives of the members of the group presidents of the political parties, whose group is in parliament, by the provisions of the Civil Code and the Constitution. And I want to believe that, especially without surrendering to power and abundance, on behalf of the nation, you will adopt positive discrimination towards opposition parties and, more importantly, the smaller one as a democratic style. You know that democracy and law are a way of life where the right of few, few, contrary is protected from power. The use of public authority by the government will be supervised here by opposition parties. I want to believe again that you'll give it opportunity and opportunity. Mr. President, I'd like to remind you that on this first day, I don't mean as a criticism and accusation in the 23rd term of our House, I'm not doing anything to make a statement, but I'm saying that the quality of living in the 23rd term of our Parliament has been very important. Legislature has experienced a real lack of quality, what our new friends will understand in the coming process. The way the bill and proposals were written, language, Turkish, order, commissions and the General Assembly, despite all our objections, has not been put in order. Is 20 pages long a single item, Mr. President? I'm asking your legal identity: would it be democratic to pass hundreds of substances under the name "Fikra," "alt bent bent" (in the form of the basic law), without discussion, without discussion, without negotiation, without discussion, without negotiation be passed? In the middle of the night, he was given special motions and legal proposals, and he was given the reason for his compliance with the Civil Law. I hope that such practices will not take place at this time in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which you lead. Mr. President, I believe we're not going to be lawmakers here, we're going to be lawmakers. Unfortunately, however, in recent times, the House has been law-breaking. It's not my diagnosis or that description, it belongs to a dear friend of yours. I hope that this Congress, which you will be running at this time, will establish the legal infrastructure to address the problems of our country and our nation, because in your own words, this Parliament is a heroic parliament. In this parliament, our ancestors founded the most advanced state of the age upon law, led the national struggle, won the war, and established the institutional law of our state. The 1924 Constitution and the Lausanne Peace Accord are the work of this Parliament. It's the first quarter of a new century. As in the first quarter of every century, our nation is forced to be transported by candle ships from the sea of fire again. Again, global forces have launched their global projects in our region. In the name of change and transformation, in the name of a new constitution, we are dragged into a very dangerous process to develop freedoms. Our government's institutional law is being changed. First it is necessary to recognize that we are forced to divide and divide our nation by identifying some differences, and then to tear down our national state through political means, as a policy, to build a legal infrastructure for this policy as a demand to establish a law infrastructure. After a national struggle, we will defend this country, which we have paid for with the blood of our ancestors, and the institutional law of our state, the unity of our nation, and the identity of our nation, I hope, here in your presidency, on every basis and in every sense, together. And I hope again that we'll do it together here, by conciliating our new constitution to fulfill it. We will make a human-based, modern constitution based on human rights, expanding the rights and freedoms of the individual, protecting the citizen, not the state. As the National Movement Party, we will never support the desire to change the institutional law of our state and the founding law of our nation. To us, if there is no state, without people, without people, there is no state; in fact, the state is the nation. It's historically stable that if you change the state's corporate law, you'll destroy the state. In your thank-you speech, you have determined the new constitution as an honorary duty, as a promise. The Prime Minister has expressed his desire to establish a common mind in this matter with the National Movement Party. Looks like we're gonna be busy with this this summer. I would like to put it this way as the National Movement Party, and we would like to change the Constitution of 1982. However, everyone should know that the State of Turkey, which finds its meaning in the First Amendment of the Constitution as a party, is a Republic of Turkey. From its statement, it is an indivisible whole with its country and the nation, defined by the principle that the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular and social state. His language is Turkish. The flag is the white moon star flag, the shape of it in the law. The national anthem is the Stistical March. His capital is Ankara. We will never compromise his historical determination and the identity of our nation, and we will not back down. Mr. President, at such a time, I would like to finish with the words of the great Ataturk. I know we're on a historic mission, and we're on a historic mission, and God help us all. In the 100th year of the founding of our Republic, I believe that we will make our country at least a global force in its territory. In fact, we claim that the Nationalist Movement Party will be the 21st century Turkish century. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I care about this opening statement or this opening statement. Because from now on, we're going to work together, we're going to work together, we're going to work together, we're going to work out the issues of our country and our nation's agenda, we're going to build a law on solutions. Each of us, each party, each group, considers our position and position on these issues, which we consider to be very important for the future of our country, and are imposed as a global project, necessary and valuable to express without any obvious, clear, complexes, without any special meanings. As the National Movement Party, we, as part of our nation's mission to defend our nation's rights, its law, its future, its identity, and the founding law of the state that it has established, we believe that you are in that sense of duty, we want to believe. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as I initially stated on 11 August 2006, the United Nations Security Council adopted Decision 1701 (2006) and the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey dated 5/9/2006 and authorized for 880 by the United Nations Temporate Task Force for a year, as well as by the conditions of that day, it has been considered and accepted as a historical responsibility for Turkey. This mandate, given in one year or another, must be renewed each year, at this time of year. As Turkey, as a country of this region, it is not possible for us to remain neutral in the events of this geography, as part of our historical acquish and responsibilities. Therefore, we feel it is imperative that after recent developments in this geography, especially after the recent developments in Syria, the continuation of the political and security environment in Lebanon, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and Turkey, we, too, be careful or contribute or fulfill our responsibilities. In light of these issues, we find it necessary and correct that the Turkish Armed Forces -- within a year or so -- will be appointed by the government -- should participate in their mission in Lebanon, and in that case, we will vote positively as the National Movement Party Group, which the government has submitted to our General Assembly today. Dear lawmakers, we are obliged to assess the events we live in within our own reality in the Middle East's own reality. Our friends who were here in the past period will remember that on April 6, 2011, I gave a speech on the international contract brought in to enforce the Protocol of Co-operation between Turkey and Syria in the Battle of Terror and Terror Organizations, and I said at the time: We are obliged to predict the future of events in Syria, and we are obliged to get what we need in time and sufficient as Turkey, because Syria is not Libya, it is not Egypt, it is Yemen; it is not Yemen, it is not Egypt. A spark in Syria will become a fire, and Turkey will be deeply interested, and we need to do so in time to protect ourselves from this threat and danger. At this point, I invited Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, Syrian officials to do what needed to be encouraged, to warn the Syrian authorities at the point of measures that needed to be taken. Dear lawmakers, today, Syria may have reached an irreversible point. As Turkey, we have all lived together to see that our telling the truth from here does not produce a very effective and beneficial result. In this geography, Turkey has a very fundamental responsibility to the people living in this geography in the context of historical, geographical, political, belief, in the cultural context. No matter what they're up to, we can't say. It was a necessity in Syria to show the sensitivity we showed in Lebanon, but today, in Syria, there is a lot of blood. We're not responsible for this, we're not responsible for Turkey, but watching the next-door fire could cause our own home to face this threat and danger. That's why I say the sensitivity we show in Lebanon... 31 times now, Turkey has been involved in the negatives, conflicts in other countries outside of Turkey, sending Turkish Armed Forces, contributing to the United Nations, but today, as President of the Syrian Friendship Group, it hurts me, it hurts my heart. I care deeply about the political power that governs Turkey, the political power that takes responsibility to rule Turkey on behalf of the nation, the AKP's power to be more sensitive about these issues, and the fact that geography, history, is acting on its responsibility. Again, I see the need for a more sensitive approach to these issues, an approach in the light of more regional facts. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we wish the government's thesis to contribute to the Turkish Armed Forces, Turkey's position in the region, to its foreign policy, and to the protection of the troops from any accidents and trouble here. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0009par0106	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Istanbul MP Volcano Bozır. Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0010par0110	Mr. President, I'm here to share with you the opinion of the EC PARTI Group regarding the government's decision to extend the authority of our Parliament to send troops to the United Nations forces in Lebanon. I salute you all. Mr. President, first of all, my sincere congratulations on your election to the President of the High Assembly, and in my faith that your success will continue, I wish you the best of our House, our country, and our nation. I wish our House success in the efforts that would allow our country, which reached the most powerful point in the history of the republic during the 24th Legislature, to go further in every way. I also ask God's mercy and patience for our beloved brothers and sisters who have died in the cause of their homeland today, and for their families and for our whole nation. Developments in Lebanon are of interest to Turkey on many levels. In this regard, Lebanon is not a country that can be ignored in Turkey's interest in the Middle East and its sensitivities throughout the region. With Lebanon included in the already complex geopolitical equation of the Middle East, relations of interest and ongoing conflicts in the region have become unbearable. With its geographical location, complex interior and external connections, developments in Lebanon affect the entire region. The 2006 Lebanon war once again brought Lebanon to the forefront of Middle Eastern policy. The crisis in Lebanon today arose both by the political struggles in Lebanon's internal policy and by the mutual effect of regional, international conjuncture. Lebanon can be described as a unique country as its social structure. It is possible to base Lebanon on three elements: First, the people of Lebanon are divided into twenty-two sects of Christianity and Islam. The second element is that the social structure is based on a complete feud, and that the people of Lebanon are clustered around the derarchs and the arabs, who are outside the religious sects. The third point is that political parties are shaped according to these features of the social structure. Thus, the structure of political parties was first shaped by family, zaim, and then replaced by sectarian and political ideas. From the 20th century on, the population of Lebanon diaspora, mostly Christian Maruni, migrated to various parts of the world due to internal conflicts and the search for material wealth, is estimated today from 10 to 14 million. This diaspora is the source of the wealth of Lebanon, a population of 4 million. In Lebanon, a nation has never developed a state phenomenon, and the Lebanese have adhered to their religion and their sects and their leaders, which they belong to above all else. The division, based on the religion factor in the country, is one of the origins of internal conflict. While fundamentally religious division is divided into two groups of Christianity and Islamism, the struggle between sects between the two groups must not be ignored. As a result of historical development in the Christian wing, the Marunis have always been strong and leading sects, but in the 19th and 20th centuries, radical changes in numbers and power have shown itself. By the 20th century, the powerful group of the Dürzilers was militaryly active, but in the 20th century, the Sunnis appear to be the most advantageous sect after the Marunis in political power. In contrast, in particular in recent years, the Shias have become the most weighted group in the Muslim wing, under the influence of powerful militias. Lebanon's political system is based on the 1943 Misakimillî (Agreement of Taif) and on the 1989 signing of the Treaty of Taif. According to this, the president's Maruni, the prime minister's Sunni, parliament speaker's Shii, vice-president of parliament and deputy prime minister must be Orthodox. A possible instability in Lebanon would lead to a general instability in this region near Turkey. More importantly, Lebanon is part of the struggle for the future of the Middle East region in general. Turkey's presence in Lebanon will also be affected by all these developments. It is important that Turkey play an active role in ensuring regional peace and stability, primarily considering its own interests, with historical, regional and cultural depth when conditions permit. A state with regional power such as Turkey cannot turn its back on such a close geography. Turkey is a country that is very familiar with the region, and has very close historical, cultural and relative relations with the peoples of the region. We can't just watch the developments in a country like this from a distance, as if they were happening on another continent. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I would like to give you a brief report on the establishment and construction of UNIFIL. In July 2006, the expanded UNIFIL (UNIFIL) decree issued by the United Nations Security Council 1701 was issued in order to end the Israeli-Lubnan war, ceasefire and restore security and stability in Lebanon: Observing the cease-fire, To oversee and support the deployment of Lebanon's armed forces to all South Lebanon, including areas along the Blue Line, while Israel's forces withdraw from Lebanon. Co-ordinating their activities with the governments of Israel and Lebanon, Helping to get humanitarian aid to the civilian population and to get people from their seats back in volunteer and security, Helping the Lebanese army take steps to create the buffer zone, At the request of the government of Lebanon, to help secure the borders of Lebanon and other points of entry against the entry of weapons and related materials. The mandate of UNIFIL, which was temporarily set for a year in the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, has been extended on a regular basis. The mandate of the force is expected to be extended for another year, starting on 31 August 2011. ==History==As of June 2011, UNIFIL (June 2011), there were 11,834 soldiers, 337 international civilians, 659 local personnel and 50 military observers. Thirty-three countries have contributed to land troops except Turkey. Sea troops are contributed by Turkey, Germany, Bangladesh, Indonesia and Greece. Brazil is already in command of the Naval Task Force. In addition to the commitments mentioned above, I would like to bring to your attention on this occasion the decision that armed elements will not be used in any mission, including deletion of weapons in the region. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I'd like to present you with some information about UNIFIL's safety and recent threats. Following the implementation of UN Security Council Decision 1701 and the deployment of the expanded UNIFIL (UNIFIL), the security and stability of the Lebanese-Israeli border and the region remains. The parties have followed the ceasefire established under Resolution 1701. The Lebanon army has been deployed to southern Lebanon, UNIFIL has continued to contribute to the maintenance of peace, security and stability under its function defined by the mission directive, the concept of action and the rules of engagement. During studies conducted on the Blue Line in August 2010, four people were killed, including one of Israel and three Lebanon soldiers, in a conflict that the Lebanese side tried to cut down a tree that they claimed was on the border with Lebanon. On 27 May 2011, six Italian soldiers were injured in an attack on the UNIFIL Italian Union convoy on the way to Sayda-Berrut, outside UNIFIL operations. It has been determined that the attack was carried out by a remote-controlled explosive planted on the side of the road, and the investigation into the attack is under way. In 2008, two members of the Irish Union were injured and three Spanish and three Colombian military personnel were killed in the attacks using the same method before this incident. Also on May 15, 2011, 12 Palestinian refugees were killed during Palestinian refugees' demonstrations on the Israeli border during the day of Nakba Day. Israeli fighter planes and drones, on the other hand, violate the Lebanese airspace on a daily basis and conduct observation activities. There has been no serious action against the Turkish Union, which has been involved in useful infrastructure work in the region. On the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and on the recommendation of our government, the Supreme Assembly has approved that Turkey's 880th resolution on 5 September 2006 and Turkish Armed Forces' participation in UNIFIL, which will be determined by the government. In this framework, the troops and ships, which we have contributed to UNIFIL's naval and land forces, have been deployed in the region since October 2006. The construction company and the U.N. Secretary of the United Nations signed agreements and aid letters on the refund of our construction company and our marine troops. In this framework, our military assets are paid for by the United Nations. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, our current contribution to UNIFIL (Unifil) is already made up of the following factors: As of October 20, 2006, a construction company was assigned to UNIFIL land troops in the Co-host site of Sur Province in the south. Our black unit has been chosen as a model unit in the United Nations inspection. Our unit has established close co-operation and communication with local and national authorities, and has gained the confidence of the people of South Lebanon, mostly Shiite elements, in their civil-military cooperation activities. Under the request of the United Nations and the offer of our Naval Command, it was envisioned to contribute to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force with an assault boat on 6 June 4 September 2011. At UNIFIL Command, we have a unit of 237, 24 of them civilian 261, and 253 of our staff are already in service, and three of our personnel are in the UNIFIL headquarters in the Nakura region. The port of Mersin was opened to the use of friendly and allied countries for the purposes envisioned in the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, and the port of Mersin was declared to be the designated port for the use of countries participating in UNIFIL. Turkey's efforts to ensure peace and stability in Lebanon contribute both to strengthening our bilateral relations with Lebanon and to strengthening our activity in the Middle East. In addition, all of our efforts, including our contribution to UNIFIL, are supported by all groups in Lebanon. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I want to brief you on recent developments in Lebanon. The issue of the Lebanese Special Court, established by Security Council Resolution 1157 to investigate Hariri's assassination, has increased tension in the country since the summer of 2010. In support of Hezbollah, Iran and Syria, he asked the government of Hariri to end the Lebanese Special Court process following allegations that its members would be indicted in the indictment. The 14th March group and Western countries were against it. In the meantime, the Prime Minister called on the parties to attend Lebanon on 24-25 November 2010. Syria and Saudi Arabia failed to mediate, and the Hezbollah group brought down the government on January 12, 2011. Necip Mikati, who was appointed to form the new government on 25 January 2011, was only able to form the new government on 13 June 2011. Meanwhile, Lebanese Special Court pretrial judge Fransen confirmed the indictment on 28 June 2011 and handed it over to Lebanon's Attorney-General Said Mirza on 30 June 2011. The indictment shows that four Hezbollah members have been charged. His statement on the evening of July 2, 2011 that Hezbollah leader Nasrallah would not hand over the defendants increased tensions. The next term presents new risks for Lebanon. In this context, tensions stemming from the Lebanese Special Court and the fact that the 14th March wing prefers to remain in opposition have the potential to increase tensions in the country. The government of Mikati has a difficult task, such as the disarmament of the Special Court of Lebanon and Hezbollah, to ensure that the government does not fall and tensions do not increase. The stasis of the Middle East peace process points to increasing tensions from Lebanon and Israel. Events in Syria can increase tensions in Lebanon and religious, religious, and ethnic divisions. The recent attack on the UNIFIL unit, the incidents on the Blue Line, the events between the Tripoli and the Alevi and the Sunnis, also illustrate how fragile the security environment is in the country. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as a result, we feel it is the duty of our national responsibility to actively support international efforts to establish stability and security in our region. We support the sovereignty, territorial integrity, security, and stability of this country within the framework of common history and culture and human bonds that we have with Lebanon. In this framework, we also contribute to the UN Temporary Task Force UNIFIL, which reflects international legitimacy and the common will of the international community. In this delicate period, UNIFIL is a priority for it to continue its mission in Lebanon. In the current environment in our region, continuing our participation in UNIFIL (UNIFIL) is both consistent foreign policy and the continuation of our country's activity in the region. Turkey's participation in UNIFIL (UNIFIL) contributes substantially to the continuation of its policy on maintaining peace and stability in the region. Turkey has been instrumental in carrying out the operation of peacekeeping with its contributions to the UNIFIL naval task force, both in the United States and in the United States. Thus, the United Nations system has increased its appearance in our region as well as in the world. In addition, he has improved his reputation in other parts of the world with a successful performance in peacekeeping operations that he had previously participated in. It is also important for all Lebanese people and official officials to welcome our country and to expect our contributions. In this framework, we have asked permission from our great Parliament in accordance with Article 92 of our Constitution, which ensures that the time of our country's contribution can be extended in accordance with UNIFIL. I give you my regards.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0011par0149	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. I'll make a ten-minute commitment to the two congressmen regarding the pending statement. In the first place, Aksaray MP Ali Riza Alaboyun. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0012par0154	Mr. President, under the principles determined by the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 and the Supreme Assembly's Resolution 880, I have made a commitment to the government's thesis, which has asked for an extension from September 5, 2011, in order for Turkish Armed Forces to participate in the UNIFIL operations in Lebanon. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, I congratulate you on your election to the 24th term legislature. I wish him well for our country, for our nation and for our coven. Dear MPs, I would like to brief you on the UNIFIL Temporal Peace Corps and developments in the region, which are the basis for this thesis. A temporary peacekeeping force was formed by the United Nations Security Council in March 1978, following the condensation of the conflicts between Israel and Lebanon and Israel's invasion of Southern Lebanon. The purpose of this peacekeeping force was to withdraw from Israel's occupied south Lebanon, to ensure peace and security in the region, and to restore the authority of Lebanon's government in the region. However, due to tensions between Israel and Lebanon, the event of the peacekeeping force was tried to expand both in 1982 and in 2000 by the United Nations Security Council. Despite the efforts of the United Nations, the conflict between Hezbollah in Israel and Lebanon has increased over time. In particular, the conflict and attacks, which began in July 2006, turned into an attack on the total destruction of Southern Lebanon with a heavy bombing campaign by Israel. As a result of this bombing, dozens of cities, cities and infrastructures, particularly Beirut Airport, were destroyed, tens of thousands of houses were unusable, and hundreds of thousands were forced to leave their homes. More than 1,000 Lebanese civilians - including foreigners - have lost their lives and thousands have been injured. As a result of the Hezbollah attacks, around 40 people were killed by Israel. Strangers living in southern Lebanon have been forced to leave the country due to their safety. During the evacuation of Turks in the region, Turkey also evacuated thousands of foreigners and carried out a humanitarian mission and attracted the international community's attention. The excessive and disproportionate use of force against South Lebanon on the grounds of Israel's right to defend, including UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, has been strongly condemned by many countries, including Finland and Turkey, who are running the presidency of the European Union. The United Nations Security Council has agreed to increase the number of UNIFIL troops in the region to 15,000 by the Security Council Resolution 1701, which took place on 11 August 2006, and to increase the efficiency of UNIFIL, which many countries including Turkey have called for troops to be given to UNIFIL. The Turkish government has not been insensitive to what has happened in the region and the call of the United Nations, but has submitted the government's statement to parliament concerning sending troops to Lebanon. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has authorized our government to deploy troops for a year through its 880th resolution on October 5, 2006, discussing the thesis. In the first place, Turkey joined UNIFIL (UNIFIL) with 495 soldiers, civilians and technical staff. As of today, that number has reached a thousand degrees. Turkey is also contributing to the development and construction of the region with the support of civil and technical personnel, while providing military support for the defence of South Lebanon with naval and land forces. For the past five years, UNIFIL has been seen to have succeeded. Turkey is the leading contributor of nearly 30 countries, and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, along with some of our ministers during his visit to Lebanon on 25 November 2010, visited the Turkish power at UNIFIL, and gave moral support. Mr. President, it is a country that has made its own policy to contribute to regional peace in the country, which is the basis for its foreign policy; its success with its neighbours, its military support for peacekeepers, has been crowned by the civilian contribution to the construction of the region, and has shown that the region is an effective and reliable country. Turkey respects that every country in the region, especially Israel, has the right to exist and defend itself as a sovereign state. For this reason, Turkey is a country that has gained the credibility of all countries in the region. However, Turkey would never agree that any country in the region, particularly Israel, would use excessive and disproportionate force to another country by putting its economic power, military superiority ahead of its scope, and that this approach would be an act to dynamite regional stability. Precious lawmakers view the extension of our military presence in UNIFIL in Turkey as an important step towards the security of Lebanon, stability of the region and the credibility of our foreign policy. At a time when our parliament will be on vacation, the United Nations Security Council will likely be able to decide whether the UNIFIL will extend its mandate. In such a case, it is important to be given this authority now to ensure the continuity of our military presence in UNIFIL before our Parliament takes a vacation. To this end, our government must be authorized to deploy the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, which will be determined by the government, under the UN Security Council Resolution 1701 and the principles determined by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, 880. As of September 5, 2011, I hope that our Parliament will grant the approval of the Supreme Assembly in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, in order for Turkey to participate in the UNIFIL operation for one more year, in order to make the necessary arrangements on this matter, in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0013par0169	Thank you, Mr. Alaboyun. Now it's the second time, Mr. Lutfi Elvin of Karaman. Here you are, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0014par0173	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs who were brutally murdered today, my condolences on their relatives, and patience on our nation. I also hope that our 24th Legislature will be good for all our MPs and our people. Mr. President, I congratulate you on your election as Chairman of the High Assembly and wish you the best of your mission. I have made a pledge on behalf of my own authority to extend the mandate of our troops in the United Nations Force in Lebanon. I salute you all. In addition to recent achievements in economic and social development, Turkey has come to a prestigious position in the world with a constructive and peace-seeking foreign policy that has transformed globalisation into opportunity. Turkey, the United Nations and NATO, is part of all international organisations, including Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Afghanistan, Macedonia, and almost every region of the world, to contribute to peace and stability. No matter what part of the world he's served in, as well as his contribution to peace, our public officials, civil society organizations, are somewhere in the service of peace ambassadors to our country, especially our soldiers, who are working with great sacrifice to provide health, education, infrastructure and basic needs for people in need. Now, Turkey has adopted a dynamic understanding that, along with the AK PARTI power, is a conflicting, fear-giving, stand-tethicist approach that one loses and the other wins, and it is a principle of mutual strength, mutual winning. In our foreign policy, a paradigm change has been made to make Turkey one of the leading countries of the 21st century. This paradigm change is one of Turkey's most important achievements. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are in a geography of many countries facing economic and political problems. Without security and prosperity in these countries, security and prosperity in Turkey cannot be established on solid foundations. As much stability and trust as we have, our neighbors should have that stability and trust. That's why we want what we want for ourselves for our neighbors. With its vision, Turkey is now a leading country, not a spectator. We are now a country that can look at its territory with confidence, develop and adopt regional vision, and implement its principles in its foreign policy. Now, instead of a Turkey that snores its history and history, there is a Turkey that makes peace with its history, with its geography. Our history, our geography is a strategic value, not a burden. A geography, where both Turkey and its neighbours are strengthened, democratised, and growing, is the peace and stability of that region. We're not just a country that builds our foreign policy on security anymore. We are a country that can look at regional and global developments as a whole and develop principles, not reactionary. We are a country that maintains our foreign policy within the principles of justice, economic development, democratization. Turkey is no longer an example of others, but an example of others. Turkey is no longer a country receiving help from others, it is a country that helps others. Dear lawmakers, today the cries of nations from many geography of the world are rising with blood, tears, and suffering. Especially in geography, where our historical and social ties are strong, this is a much more violent situation. Despite what is seen on television screens or on the newspaper page, facing these truths personally and creating solutions for this purpose is also a requirement of Turkey's moral responsibility beyond its historical responsibility. THE AK PARTY governments have always opposed persecution and have been with the oppressed. A system of persecution and injustice cannot survive, and regimes that do not respond to people's demands cannot survive. Dear lawmakers, Turkey cannot and shouldn't have the luxury of ignoring international issues that concern the world or regional problems, as part of the responsibilities it has imposed on its history and position. His regional and global vision has brought serious confidence and great responsibility in Turkey. Turkey has grown much bigger with its economy than its past, with its social resources, and has taken on the role of quarterback in regional and world politics. Our country's joint partnerships with the surrounding countries, which are an attractive area within the region, have opened its way for it to take on a role and responsibility in regional issues. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has become a visionary country in recent years, thanks to its constructive, peaceful and compromise policies, which have been as much a partner in the issues of the region as they have been in the world. Our country has become a state of peace and security in this complex geography, thanks to the stability and confidence it has gained through its democratic society structure, which states want to mediate, which is expected to be responsible for international institutions. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we are in a joint effort in this region as well as in all the international institutions we've been tasked with in order to cure the bleeding wound of the Middle East, to soothe the bleeding tears. It is important to maintain stability and confidence in Lebanon in order to establish peace and stability in the region. In recent years, Turkey has made serious efforts to halt the conflicts and ensure a truce. We ask that our troops serving in Lebanon's United Nations Force be extended for another year, regardless of our historical mission, common values, conscience and human responsibilities, as a requirement of our obligations in the region and the international community. Turkey, affected directly by everything that is going on in the region, cannot be expected to be insensitive or indifferent to such a thing. Dear friends, our country, along with the Lebanese people and its government, has received a great support from the international public, as a result of the great efforts and self - sacrificing efforts of the honored members of the Turkish Armed Forces in the region. In addition to his military contribution to this power, Turkey has made significant contributions to the reconstruction and revitalisation of Lebanon's economy. The continuation of these contributions and the absence of our Lebanese brothers should be a matter for those with a conscience to desire. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in light of the reasons I'm trying to explain, the United Nations in Lebanon states that I will vote positively for the extension of the mandate of our troops on the task force for another year, all of you.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0015par0188	Thank you, Mr. Elvan. Dear lawmakers, talks have been completed on behalf of groups and on behalf of individuals regarding the Prime Ministerial thesis. According to the 60th article of the Civil Code, some of our valued fellow lawmakers have a request to speak from his place of residence. I'll take turns promising not to go past a minute and not to mention the matter. The first word is Mr. Tallırmak. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0016par0193	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, congratulations on your election, and I wish you all the best. There's a question and a suggestion I'd like to make to our Minister: in the Meymene region, in Afghanistan, in the District of Aydın Bozdoğan, two of our customers, Izzet Karcı, were kidnapped by the Taliban. Now, when we're sending this cross-border force -- of course, there are some paramilitary forces that have been reacting to Turkey and therefore many times to our civilian citizens -- are these abductions and attacks -- are there any other measures that the government is considering? I wanted to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0017par0197	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. We're just in the beginning of our legislature. The law answers questions about billing and proposals. Since today is the first day, we shouldn't be understanding this and making it a tradition. If this is to be an issue of a specific answer, it may be in the form of a question motion, or the Minister can give you private information after the negotiations are over. Secondly, Mr. Halaçoğlu. I'm making the same warning for you, Mr. Halaçoglu. I'll give you a minute without question or answer. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0018par0202	Mr. President, first of all, I congratulate you on your election. Of course, it is our duty to protect people in Lebanon, which is part of our general geography, and it is vital that Turkey is actively involved in this region in the Middle East. Depending on that, of course, it's one of the most important issues in our country that we protect people in the first degree. I personally wish Allah's mercy to John Karakaya, and to all our other martyrs from the village of Pınarbaşı Gürlegen, who died in Hakkari, and to the Turkish nation, that God protect our other soldiers, and that serious measures should be taken, as in Lebanon, be taken in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-07-05sit01spe0019par0206	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Dear lawmakers, negotiations on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now, I'm going to have the thesis reread and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the UN Security Council's decision 1701 (2006) adopted on 11 August 2006 and the Turkish Parliament's decision 5/9/2006 and 880, Turkey contributed to the UN Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) with the elements of the Armed Forces. The length of the permit is finally extended one year from September 5, 2010, when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey ruled on 24/6/2010 and 969. With its contributions to the UNIFIL ground operation and the naval task force, Turkey has actively carried out an important function in the implementation of the peacekeeping operation, so that its appearance within the United Nations system, both on a regional and global scale, and has improved its status. Turkey's participation in UNIFIL has contributed significantly to the continuation of its policy to maintain peace and stability in the region. UNIFIL will end its mandate on 31 August 2011 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after 31 August 2011. The political environment in Lebanon and the security environment are thought to be appropriate for our military elements in the country to continue their duties. In light of these issues and the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and the security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate, I will allow the provisions of Turkish Armed Forces, which will be determined by the government, under Article 92 of the Constitution under the United Nations Security Council's Decision No. 1701, and under the principles determined by the decision of the 880 TBMM, to participate in UNIFIL operations for another year from September 5, 2011, and to carry out the necessary arrangements on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes... Those who don't agree... Appointment accepted. Good luck and good luck. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, to discuss our agenda, it is Wednesday (July 6th 2011) at 15 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
