tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 and the Central Management Computation Bill of 2010. We're having a round of interviews today according to the schedule. The fifth round includes the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Agriculture and Farming; the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages; the Ministry of Agriculture Reform; the Ministry of Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing; the Ministry of Education; the National Education Board; the Chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement; and the budgets of universities. (x) 87 and 88 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 31st Constabulary, dated 08/12/2011. a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Ankara University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Middle East Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Central Management Final Account for 2010 Middle East Technical University a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Hacettepe University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Gazi University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) İstanbul University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Boğaziçi University 2012 Central Management Budget B) Boğaziçi University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Marmara University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Marmara University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Yıldız Technical University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Star Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2012 Central Management Budget B) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2010 Central Management Final Account A) Ege University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Ege University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) 9 September University Central Management Budget 2012 B) 9 September University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Thracian University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Thrace University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Uludağ University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Anadolu University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Selçuk University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Selçuk University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Mediterranean University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Ercijas University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Ercijas University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Çukurova University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) 19 May University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Central Management Final Account for May 19, 2010 A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Ataturk University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Inönu University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Inönü University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Firat University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Firat University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Dicle University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Dicle University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Centennial University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Centennial University's 2010 Central Management Final Account a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Gaziantep University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology 2012 Central Management Budget B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Gebze Institute of Higher Technology 2012 Central Management Budget B) Gebze Institute of High Technologies 2010 Central Management Final Account a) Harran University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Harran University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Zonguldak Black Diamond University 2012 Central Management Budget B) Zonguldak Black Diamond University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Mersin University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Pamukkale University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Balıkesir University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Alexei University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) The Central Management Account for 2010 at the University of Schepeli A) Sakarya University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Sakarya University's Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Jalalal Bayar University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Kafkas University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Çanakkale 18 University of March 2012 Central Management Budget B) Çanakkale 18 March University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Niğde University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Niğde University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Dumlupınar University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Muğla University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Muğla University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Kahramanmarash Milker Imam University Central Management Account for 2010 A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University 2012 Central Management Budget B) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Galatasaray University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Ahi Evran University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Kastamon University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Düzce University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Uğur University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Rize University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Rize University's 2010 Central Management Final Account A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Namik Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Erzincan University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Aksaray University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Giresun University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Giresun University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Hitit University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Hitit University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Bozok University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Bozok University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Adıyaman University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Military University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Army University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Amasya University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Amasya University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Karamanoğlu Mehmet Bey University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Karamanoğlu Mehmet Bey University Central Administration Terminate Account for 2010 A) Pain İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Amasya University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Sinop University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Sinop University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Siirt University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Siirt University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Nevşehir University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Nevşehir University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Karabük University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Karabük University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Church University of December 7th 2012 Central Management Budget B) Kilis 7 December University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Çankırı Karateken University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Bilecik University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Bilecik University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Cırklareli University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Osmaniye Korkuş University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2010 Central Management Final Account a) Bingol University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Bingöl University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Batman University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Batman University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Ardahan University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Bartın University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Bartın University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Bayburt University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Bayburt University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Gümühane University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Silverhane University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Hakkari University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Iğdır University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Şırnak University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Tunceli University Central Management Budget 2012 B) Tunceli University Central Management Final Account for 2010 A) Yalova University Central Management Budget for 2012 B) Yalova University Central Management Final Account for 2010 a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2012 A) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Budget 2012 a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget 2012 a) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget 2012 a) Konya University Central Management Budget for 2012 a) Kayseri Abdullah Gul University Central Management Budget 2012 a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must write their passwords until the end of the talks and press the promise-seeking button on the screen after introducing their fingerprints. I read the names of the members who took part in the fifth tour: Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu, Kütahya MP Alim Im; Burdur MP Ramazan Kerim Özkan, Mersin MP Vakaper, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar, İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serdar, Edirne MP Recep Gürkan; Ağrıl Aksoy, Karstan Alılı, Aklılılılılılı, İstanbul People's Party's Party's Party of Justice, Osman Çağan Çamımımımı, Osman Erdımımım Beydılı, Mehmet Çağnım Beydıtıtılı, İstanbul MP Osman Erdımımımımımımımımımımımımımım Yıldız, Mehmet Ünımımımımımı. On behalf of the individuals, Müğla MP Yüksel Özden is against Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. The first word now belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] You've been on for 13 minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0002par0337	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion on the budget of our Food, Agriculture and Animalism Ministry, the exact account of our Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs, the Department of Agriculture Reform, the exact account of the Department of Agriculture, and on the budget and on the final account of the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Foundation, and on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group. I hereby salute your high council. Agriculture, as part of the industry, is a strategic sector for human beings, as well as in the interest of producers and consumers, as well as because of the activity that provides raw materials in many industrial branches. About 26 percent of our country's population, which is very lucky for its seas, lakes, soil, water, and sun, still deals with agriculture. I still say that because in countries with advanced economic power, the agricultural sector is low in proportion, and it's a sign of development. For example, between 4 per cent and 4.5 per cent in the European Union, 1 per cent of the population in the United States deals with agriculture. Agriculture is still an important sector of economic, social value for our country. However, in our country, which has the 16th largest economy in the world, farmers, producers, feeders are miserable. According to TÜİK, the national income per cent of the government boasts today is $15,392 dollars, while $3,566 is falling into the interest of our people working in the agriculture sector. You can appreciate that the agricultural sector is a business directly linked to climate conditions and geographical structure. It's an open factory, so to speak, every agricultural business. The most important inputs are seed, fertilizer, medicine, bait, diesel, electricity used in irrigation and operating; most importantly, handwork, eye shine, forehead sweat. According to Mr. Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, and his senior bureaucrats, in 2002 he was an agricultural national. In almost every explanation, they base 2002, compare, and talk about achievements. But despite the disaster of the 1999 century and the 2001 crisis, they never talk about how much agricultural input prices have increased since 2002. In most of these entries, they still can't even control the prices. I want to evaluate how many input prices have increased since 2002, which would be a sign of where they were brought from during the nine years of AKP's rulings, based on some data from the ministry's official website. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important entries in agricultural production is diesel. In 2002, the average amount of diesel was $1.10, and today it is $3.90. The power gave up on green, or cheap diesel, and he chose to give the mazota a raise after a raise. It's not different in fertilizer. To illustrate several examples of the most commonly used fertilizers, ammonium sulfate was 162 lira in 2002, while today its ton is 640 lira. Again, ammonium nitrate in 2002 is $193 in tone, while today it is $780. Yet, one of the most common fertilizers is no different in the urethra. In 2002, the urea, which weighs 237 liras, is now $1.120. The DAP, again, is $354 in 2002, while its ton is 1,500 lira today. Is the situation in the fertilizer different than the situation in the bait? It's possible to see similar numbers in him, my dear friends. One ton of bait, which is $413 in 2002, is now $1.210. The food is now $770, which is $144 in 2002. These figures also show that, my dear friends, in order to buy one litre of diesel, the most important entry in production, our farmer had to sell two pounds of wheat in 2002, but today, unfortunately, he would have to sell six kilograms of wheat. Again, in 2002, our farmer, who sold 1.5 liters of raw milk to buy 1 litre of diesel, has to sell 5 liters of raw milk today. Again, it's enough for him to deliver 10 kilograms of beets in 2002 to buy 1 litre of diesel, while our farmer has to deliver 35 to 40 kilos of beets today so he can get 1 litre of diesel. Dear lawmakers, our manufacturer, able to buy 5 pounds of raw milk in 2002 by selling 1 litre of raw milk, is able to buy only 800 grams of food today by selling 1 litre of raw milk. Again, in 2002, with direct income support for 16 lira per decarred, our manufacturer could buy 13 litres of diesel, and with that amount of diesel, our farmer could disrupt your memory, prepare the field for planting. The situation at the moment, unfortunately, is heartbreaking. The farmer's money isn't even enough for the road. In 2002, our farmer had to deliver 213 tons of sugar beets, while today he had to deliver 340 tons of sugar beets. To buy the same tractor, he has to sell 45 tons of wheat in 2002, while he has to sell about 72 tons of wheat today. Dear lawmakers, if you use the most expensive entries in the world, you get the most expensive product in the world. So you can't compete with the world, you're running out of luck. You have to sell what you produce below its cost, you lose it, you avoid production, you stop production. So your manufacturer complains about not making money from the product he produces, and your consumer complains about expensive food products. Instead of taking permanent and radical measures, you resort to palliative measures to manage the situation and save the day -- which is what the government does today -- to stop agriculture from being sustainable. At this point, you will condemn our country, which the Minister boasts of the world's 7th agricultural economy, to imported wheat, corn, cotton, feed plants, raw oil, imported meat, fish, milk, milk, and imported sacrifice. Our government is doing wrong in agriculture as well as in many matters. When they took office in 2002, they began liquidating ministry workers who lived in the golden age of Turkish agriculture, Turkish farmer and feeder in 1999-2000. They tried to create a past by acting out of a sense of revenge, so to speak. It's one of their first acts, to shut down the Manisa Chicken Diseases and Vacuum Production Center, and then you keep in your memory how well they manage the problems they face in both the bird flu and the swine flu. There was only one criteria for the bureaucrats and administrators they brought into office. It's not necessary for them to be competent, it's enough for us. It's the result of the error that Mr. Minister of Agriculture, as a result of not informing our farmers, should feed the black earth. And take your mother, who used to use her expression, as a black stain in Turkish agriculture and political literature. As a result of AKP's wrong preferences and policies, the decisions of the national mad cow commission have been ignored, and since the work of this commission has been stopped -- for the past 15 years -- because it has been blocked in front of animal imports -- it has entered a total of $1 billion,650 million living animals and meat, according to Customs General Directorate's data, between the last 1/10/2010-30/9/2011. This money went not to the Turkish farmer, but to foreign farmers. The markets are still closed in Turkey because of the hilt. Brucella and TB are arm-wandering. The country, which did not enter a single illegal animal in 2002, is now illegally wearing earphones, and has many agricultural products under the name of the illegal animal and limit trade. Since this smuggling is largely under PKK's control, our state is also suffering great damage along with the Turkish farmer. Dear lawmakers, most of our country's population is engaged in agriculture and agriculture-based industry, and a significant part of our active power is employed in this sector. It is not right to assess the agricultural sector in terms of economic gain and loss alone. The countries, which have come to the realization of the strategic importance of agriculture and its inexhaustibility for all mankind, view and support agricultural sectors socially and economically. For this reason, about 45 per cent of the European Union budget is the agricultural budget. Because of the wrong administration and preferences of the ministry, our farmer, who has been able to produce with his own resources until yesterday, is now in need of loans. Our manufacturer, who doesn't pay for the product, is swimming in debt. His field, tractor, scales, water engine, even an incubator. Due to the wrong agricultural policies, our people are fleeing agriculture, valuable lawmakers are leaving the land where they were born. More than 2 million hectares of agricultural land in your reign are not planted, unfortunately, and 2.5 million people have been cut off from their land and joined the unemployed army. The villages are coming. There are 114 villages in Afyonkarahisar, my constituency today, whose population has fallen below 100. Dear lawmakers, we are fortunate to have some products grow because of our country's geographical and climate properties. Everyone complains that their products are not enough money from oranges to Pisces, grapes to figs, nuts to olives, apricots to cherries and cherries, apples and pears to pomegranates, bananas to chickens, chickens to chickens and beekeepers, and the high price of input. To this day, we still depend on the outside as the seed from tomato to pepper, cucumber to beans, watermelon to melon. The barley, wheat, corn, wreaths, sunflowers, hash, beets, tobacco, and cotton producers are being punished for their sowing and regretting their timeless import permits. Agricultural support is melting year after year, compared to national income, we see that the source of agricultural support has not reached 1 percent of the national income, which is down to 49 percent in 2011. In its 2012 budget presentation address, Finance Minister Mr. Simsek said he envisioned around $11 billion for agricultural support, including loan interest support and subsidies. This amount also shows that it falls below 1%, and in 2012, unfortunately, it is clear that our farmer's victimism will continue. Dear MPs, we, the National Movement Party, are always with our farmer, and we will continue to be with him. We are followers of all of our manufacturers, and we are their eyes, ears, mouth, language in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which we are following through with parliamentary research, as in many matters. To illustrate one such thing, we've given a parliamentary research into November to investigate the problems that our fishing industry has found and the solutions. This continues not only in the fishing industry, but in all sectors. If we don't want to be the poor custodian of rich resources, the facility of full independence...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0003par0373	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0002par0374	...and we have to support agriculture if we want to produce it for the sequel, even for spite of it. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0003par0377	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0004par0381	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Education in 2012. I salute your honorable delegation and the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of National Education, which has been in large institutions such as pre-school, primary education, secondary education, vocational technical education, higher education, have, unfortunately, been in the hands of unknowing staff for a long time, and I assure you, it has suffered, I assure you. Schools, schools, students, teachers, they're all in trouble. We have the 17th economy in the world, we have the 12th economy in the OECD countries, we have the 6th economy in the European Union. We see that we are far behind when we compare spending and spending in these institutions compared with the expenditures made by the government in these statements. In Turkey, the state budget is 10 per cent for education, while the OECD average is 13.3 per cent. In OECD countries, six times as many of us spend per student. In the central budget investment fund, the national education investment budget has been reduced from 2002 to 4 times this year. At 22.34 in 2002, it has now fallen to 8.11. The investment budget is constantly melting. The country has bilateral education in 45-strong classes, while our country's population exceeds 75 million. With 400,000 new members in the system each year, the Ministry of National Education should have said at least one thing. We've solved the need for teaching. We've solved the need for teaching. I'm sorry to say that we've achieved this success in education and education. We kept the schooling rate at 50 percent in the country, but we stayed at 29.9%. We planned to send one of each of the two children to the homeroom, and we could only send one of the four children. In secondary school, two of the three children remained out of secondary school. According to OECD reports, the country's need for lessons is 140,000. We're a country in an earthquake belt. We regret to inform you that the weakest structures are schools. So, what precautions are we taking? How are we going to solve this with the budget? How do we reach the target sources of national education? The staff spending of 70 per cent of the budget, social security payments, costs, bonus costs, 20 per cent of the budget -- a large percentage -- constitutes transfer expenditures. Dear MPs, Turkish children want to study not in 45 classes, but in classrooms represented by 20, 25. In earthquake-resistant buildings, they require a fearless, non-terrorism education where staff teachers enter their classes, where they can express their meanings in at least 700 words, learn national culture, study hard science, go into labs, experiment, do experiments, do drugs like drugs in school and around them. The teacher's appointments, described as 146,000, were not made in need of national education. For ten years, the system has raised over 300,000 teachers. That's the point of an unplanned education policy. It is a great problem that students who have been brought into teaching schools cannot be put into the system and that they cannot get into any other work because they have no other profession. For this to happen, there must be a solution to the appointment of teachers in the country who are in real distress, who have reached suicides, who are in the family, who are facing a great deal of hardship within the community. I'm advising the Minister. Eight percent of our people are illiterate. Let's get this audience educated and teach them how to read and write. So let's get a teacher at the community training centers. One of the four children attend preschool education, three of whom are unable to attend. Let's get a teacher in elementary school, pre-school education. There are 77,000 paid teachers in the system. We've seen the appointment of these teachers in the east and southeast in the sheets, sheets, intelligence reports. These things must be terminated immediately. They need to be staffed by the appointment of teachers. The study centers can be set up. But what this system needs is the appointment of teachers and the melting of this accumulation of potential, and then the students who are going to be taken into education schools have to be put into planning. These problems must be put to rest. Dear lawmakers, teachers are in a difficult position financially. They've landed in the part of society that lives below the poverty line. A teacher who receives a salary from 9/1 is paid $1.550. A teacher who receives a salary from 1/4 is paid $1,825. A teacher who retires from 1/4 will receive 1.210 lira. How can we expect service from those people who can't offer them the conditions of living as a human being when they're both on duty and retired? Why don't we make an effort to raise the reputation of those people who have worked so hard for all of us, against their families, against their environment? We're looking at the quality of education, the quality is low. TÜBİTAK is doing a survey, asking the students, saying, "Who are there among you who know Mehmet Akif Ersoy?" He knows 49 per cent of the men, 41 per cent of the girls, Mehmet Akif Ersoy. They ask those who know Jonah Emre. 77% of the men know 65 percent of the girls. They're asking about the situation, 77% of the men, 72% of the girls know the valuable MPs. These are our essence, symbols of our national culture. I now present to you the level of knowledge of the students within the educational system, who are virtually impossible for anyone to know. But they ask these students, does anyone know Mona Lisa? 97 percent of men know 91% of girls. They ask about Angelina Jolie, 78 percent of men know about girls, 91 percent know about girls. They're asking about Brad Pitt, 81 percent of the males know 88 percent of the girls. I'm asking the Ministry of National Education, what are the number of students who have finished high school and won nowhere this year? I can't get an answer from the Ministry of National Education. The statistics from this year are not ready yet. In a environment where education and education are really down in such confusion, where there is no safety even in schools, where the teacher-teacher events are at a extreme stage, our Minister is now starting a project, where schools are Life. In this frame, if it's true, from what I've learned from the press, schools, classrooms, computer labs, libraries and sports fields will be opened to the public. Mr. Secretary, please call five school principals close to the Ministry, and ask them how they're doing. You're not a self-educator, you're not getting advisors from the educators, you're bringing in staff from outside the Ministry, you're working with them, you're not trusting people who are experienced in this Ministry, at least ask people in education. If you had been the school principal for about a year or so, I'd like to see that the drug was sold in front of the school doors, that the children who were using drugs were in prison, that the teacher was in Ankara, in a very close school, in the assistant principal's room, when he took the students on a trip, that he drank with the students, that the minister had neglected the investigation, and that he had found the altar, and that the assistant director of the principal had been vaccinated, and that he had been appointed as director of the higher schools, not in Ankara, and that the teacher was appointed as manager of the school, not by taking taltifts, and that the minister, and that he trusted a new staff, I would like to examine him, and bring him to me a file of this assistant director. In the Ministry, which has been turned into a swamp with such closed-eyed, imaginary projects, the ministry must not be challenged by changing its organization structure, changing the staff, constantly, in training. Mr. Secretary, this is a ministry that will not lift uncertainty, mayhem, mayhem; Turkey's largest, most important Ministry. It must be taken absolutely care of, taken care of. With this budget, we don't see that it's possible to do that, we see that it's not enough. I wish that the teacher's appointments be fulfilled, that these problems be resolved, that the budget be good, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0005par0395	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Topcu. Your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0006par0399	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the budget of 2012, the President of the Council of Higher Education and the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. I salute you all. As our fellow speaker before me stated, yes, indeed, education, education of a country means a lot to both the country and the individual, and it has a very important role. But in general, when we look at the nine-year process of AKP ruling, we see that there are four Minister of National Education, and that these National Education ministers produce very different methods and projects, they don't follow each other, and they can't fill in their education. As educators, we often fictionalize that only one young person in a country, one human being, can't be sacrificed, all of our work, but what we see is that our young people and the future of this country is not considered too much? That's what we're seeing with these studies. What's every minister doing? He wants to build a new system. There he goes, diving into a different area than Scandinavia, bringing a system from there. You go to the U.S., you get a system from there, and these systems are put into practice without being examined, whether or not they fit our system. We know there's a way to compare. Of course, the education systems of all countries must be studied, compared, considered. But what should be done according to our nature? It has to be adapted, and then it has to be carried out after it's been processed, in our system, in our values, in our culture. We know that there was a rare system in the Ottomans that really was a system that grew inside of us, within us, that we could build our own system, that we could raise a new generation in line with our own structure. What should we, as individuals who have built these systems, do as established generations? We believe we should be more careful. Now, he has an entire relationship with the piece in training. What have we always done, mostly from dealing with parts? We can't see the whole thing anymore. Another expression is that we missed the forest from looking at trees, from looking at trees, and we can't control the education system anymore, it's out of control. Another thing is, we can see that the AKP government has been doing its own work for nine years, constantly dealing with the power of 1999, with the actions of its ruling, with the actions of coalition governments, which, when we look at nine years, we can also see that it's being compared to what the current Minister of National Education has said, as if it's come to new power, we're going to do this, we're going to do this, and we're going to do this. The things that have been done in nine years, we think should be more careful, and if the quality is to be captured, it needs to be very careful, and it also needs to be sustainable, as well as the quality in education. In the current Turkish education system, there is a problem with vision in the national education system; where we go, what we want to do, it is not exactly defined. Young people don't have goals, they don't know themselves because the education system has become so self-explanatory that young people can't express themselves from taking exams, from catching exams, from solving test questions. They've been cut off from their communication, their communication with their families has been cut off. What are they doing as stress balls now? They're just walking around like a ball of stress. We all have kids, think about it. What are these kids doing from grade school four, whether they take the exam or not? Mom, dad's holding her hand, taking her to the classrooms. Too bad for these kids, they don't really live their lives. What do they want, what are their ideals, what do they want? One, here, they focus on the mid-school exams; here they are, focusing on the elementary exams, and the next thing you know, life is just going to flow in the best of times. These things need to be taken into consideration. The most basic problem is... there are basic skills. At the Ministry of National Education, we can see that even basic skills are not available in the current education. I want to give you the PISA and TIMSS research between OECD countries, and also the results of the YGS in our own country. Now, when we look here, these are tests to measure basic skills. In 2003, 2006, 2009, we see that Turkey is very low in its performance, and according to different test results, we are between 37 and 44th in 2006 and we are 41 to 43rd in 2009 between 65 countries. Now, I would like to say that, especially in the budget speech the other day, the Minister said that our goal was the first 10 percent in the PISA in 2023. Now we're looking at this, in the ten-year period of power, according to PISA results, some of them we've jumped a row, some of them we've jumped two rows. If we think about where we're going to be for ten years, if we look at these things in ten years, we won't be in a lot of order, we won't be in the front row, and I'd even like to give you a sad picture, and we'll get to the 10th row in two hundred and fifty years. I'd like to point out that when we go one row at a time, we'll be in this order in two hundred and fifty years. In addition, when we look at the results of the YGS, according to the SNS data, in 2011, we see that there are approximately 21.9 questions in 40 questions, 40 questions in Turkish, 11.6 questions in social sciences; 7.5 in mathematics; 4.1 in science. These numbers are lower than last year's numbers, and I'd like to share them with you. Now, when we look around here, the exams say, "Fuck the students," but the next thing we know, we're looking at the nine-year process of AKP power, we're looking at trial and error. You know, an OKS test was taken, a decision was made, then switched to LYS, then switched to SBS. Now we're looking at these kids, starting in the second degree of elementary school, we took an exam in sixth grade, seventh grade and eighth grade, and then it was said that we made a mistake. What's going to happen to these kids? They went to the classrooms. What are their hopes, their excitement, their expectations? It's always wasted. Right now, nothing's clear, the coefficient's gone. The coefficient's up, and we're joining, and we really shouldn't have any of our students getting in the way. Even if they study in imams, whether they go to vocational high school, we believe that the right decision has been made, and we support it, but we need to point out that where there is no guidance or guidance system, what advantage will these field preferences give the children? Children prefer schools, I don't know, fields of science, verbal or social sciences. Are these kids advantageous or disadvantaged? These need to be examined, and we especially want to report that our children in vocational education have the biggest disadvantage. Because they don't have a curriculum for questions that will come out of the exams, they don't have a chance to win the university, and in general, they have this kind of weirdness because they don't weigh down on inter-level or vocational education for everyone. Now, what we're saying is that we've looked at it so far, the nine years of training has only been equalized by the exam. But we do know that education should be essentially integrated into education and learning, and what have we come up with? He took out a teaching industry that grew with a geometric increase. Well, if our schools don't function, then we need to create something different. With the school industry... because the school industry is starting to grow. And what are the seniors doing getting reports? They don't go to schools. We also watch our seniors come to school and wait in school for nothing. Now, at the same time, one of the things that needs to be noticed is that every year, I want to give you the 2010 figures in particular. In 2010, 300,000 students left schools due to other challenges that they were unable to determine. I'd like to point out that just by opening schools, by increasing their numbers in quantity, education is not being served, or of course the share of the budget needs to be increased, but it needs to function in a way that serves its purpose. Because, you see, you can see that quality is ignored, it's left empty inside. A kid takes a test three times a year. These things need to be taken care of. Our friends told us, especially the problem with our teachers. For equal pay for equal work, I would like to point out that an assistant principal is currently receiving 1,700, with the exception of additional tuition fees, while a high school graduate is being paid 1,900 lira. It was supposed to be a teaching career, but we can see that none of this is happening. And when we get to colleges, we'd like to ask specifically what criteria are considered in the founding rectors' appointments. We want to know what education schools and science-designations are going to be, where they're going, especially from our Minister. And when we get to opening universities, there's a lot of colleges opening up, but we don't know how their infrastructure, their technological infrastructure, their teaching staff is going. And I especially want to share this: in colleges, last week's decision, a new university opened, suddenly one night, at 11:30 a.m., with a decision taken from the University of Conium Selçuk, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Education, and the Faculty of Theology.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0007par0411	Thank you, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0006par0412	Thank you, all of you. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0007par0415	Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0008par0419	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the National Party of Movement on the university budgets of 2012. I hereby salute your high council. I'm sure you've read the paragraphs on universities and education and listened carefully in the Minister of Finance's budget speech. Mr. Secretary says that we are funding 103 state universities in this budget, where the total funding of universities is increased by 15.6 per cent in 2012 to 12.7 billion euros, while the funding of newly established universities is increased by further strengthening institutional infrastructure. Of course it's true, but Mr. Secretary doesn't say that I believe in honesty and primordiality: last year we gave 3.68 percent of the budget to universities, and this year, sorry, we cut it down to 3,63. I invite the esteemed ministers of the Justice and Development Party, who know how to flip the numbers, to be honest. According to last year, the universities lost five percent of their power in a thousand, Mr. Secretary. Why do you refuse to explain these truths to these people and explain them to the House? So it's a budget of bankruptcy for universities all over again. There's no point in saying too much on the university budget if the government is running away from telling the truth when it comes to increasing numbers. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, universities are basically very valuable institutions responsible for conducting education, education, research and publishing activities in a country's higher education. Therefore, in terms of education, education, research and publishing activities, we need to very carefully assess where the universities have come from during the AKP ruling period, which has ruled Turkey alone in the last nine years. However, with such an assessment, it is only possible and more understandable to consider what the university budget means and how the budget is going to address the problems of these universities. Now, I want to sum up by giving you the latest figures from an international broadcast on where our country is in terms of universities, in terms of scientific technical indicators: According to 2010 data published by the World Business Council and the World Economic Forum, the country was ranked only in 69 percent after Jamaica, Indonesia and Kazakhstan, compared with the countries of science and technological predisposition and benefit index. What's even worse is that in the last three years, 14 rows have gone down. In the same publication, it is likely that our country, ranked 63rd among 163 countries in terms of national income per capita, ranked 69 percent in terms of science and technical indicators. With the new state and foundation universities established in our country in the last five or six years, we have no more universities and universities that have totaled 165. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's done right, we're celebrating everyone who's worked for it. Thus, no opposition party MP has recently expressed a different view of our newly established universities. It is not right for government officials to go out and address this numerical increase at every turn as if it were AKP's success, and it is not honest. Everyone in this House has contributed to the establishment of a university in a province. That should be added with this explanation. In response to this numerical increase, however, many of our universities have become considered high school in the eyes of students and their families. This is a problem in this country. With a numerical increase, it would be more appropriate for us to consider the quality increase or the quality increase together. So budgets are documents that predict the distribution of money for these problems. Through these documents, valued lawmakers have the opportunity to express the opinions of their individuals and parties. Although the AKP, which has ruled our country alone for the past nine years, has increased digitally to 120 per cent of our universities, unfortunately, the number of unresolved problems has grown further in the last decade. Now, I'd like to share with you by choosing just a few of the many problems that can or can't be avoided in the last decade. Dear lawmakers, have there been any changes in the SEC system, which has been criticised by AKP executives at every opportunity by antidemocratic practices before coming to power in the last ten years? Has he received provisions related to the RD and universities from criticisms against the 1982 Constitution for the sake of voting ahead of the upcoming election, which is the Constitution of the coup at every turn? Has there been any change in any of this? Despite many changes over the past ten years, has there been any change in YOC and universities in the presidential election? Was a system based on the preferences and objective criteria of professors and university employees in the appointment of presidents, deans, and department heads with members of the SEC? Were there any statements or press conferences of the SEC General Assembly or the Senate or boards of universities related to any of our country's problems? Dear lawmakers, universities are environments where they should be free and autonomous. Have we ever seen a statement from a chancellor or a university senate? Have we witnessed an objective assessment of any of Turkey's problems, a national or international problem? Let them be, now the faculty are afraid to go on any television show. That's the tag. That's going back. Please make the most of it. If colleges are like this, there's no need to say anything to the ministries or other institutions. Have universities been especially granted financial and administrative autonomy? In parallel with the number of universities and the increase of staff, have the number of administrative staff working at the SEC been increased? Have you ever called an NGO employee and asked him for his opinion: "How do you work there? " Did you ever think of a solution to that? Just let the president be our man, and the dean be appointed close to us. Is that the only problem that a government will be interested in? But unfortunately, in parallel with the increase of student quotas in universities, have other sources been increased by the number of academic and administrative staff? Were there any improvements to the autonomy of administrative and technical staff with the teaching staff? My dear fellow speakers before me referred to some of them. If a teacher's salary is now below the administrative staff salary of a high school graduate, if a research worker's salary is not paid by a teacher, what are we talking about now, what are colleges doing well? Despite the fact that we speak each year, have the victims reached 1,500 euros today, according to the equivalent of university secretary general assistants, office heads and legal advisors and other administrative executives? We've had promises here during each conversation, promises to be made, but unfortunately, I haven't witnessed it in five years, but for the last ten years, this problem hasn't been solved. Were there any additional courses that could have been removed that brought the teaching members against each other, even court-martialed? If not, is there a significant increase in additional tuition? It's just that you happen to work at universities today -- most of you are professors -- you all have connections -- for God's sake, a question: teacher, what's wrong with you? You'll see, there are college professors in this country who fight over an hour of extra tuition and are court-martialed. Why can't we figure this out? Why is this problem unresolved? But with its recent establishment, with an increase in the number of foundation universities that we boast about, did the rapidly increasing transfer from public universities to foundation universities prevent transfers? Has the new source been created? Twenty-five years, retired professor, demanding his retirement at a time of full efficiency, due to his low self-inflicted rights, 1,000-1 at a foundation university. It worked with $500 a month's worth of money. Who are we kidding? Then we need to create additional resources. Has the pleasure of the distribution of academic titles and staff been terminated? Unfortunately, there are no positive answers to any of them. Before the so-called presidential elections, was there ever a single shred of solution to the assistant professors who were threatened by each presidential candidate and turned into a whipping boy? Despite this arrangement, which allowed them to rise to the first degree and retire last year, has one assistant professor from last year been assigned to the first ranking? We've made the arrangements, but the Treasury hasn't given one first-degree faculty staff to assistant professors today. Who are we kidding? Then we have to solve these problems, discuss them. Were the traumas of our students, the most important entry in the university system, when they graduated from college and graduated from college, been resolved, could they be repaired? Was one found guilty and punished for making stolen questions and given copies? Now, we can't solve these problems if we just evaluate the college system with the number of colleges, with the increases there, with the increase in quantity. Were the students or graduates who went to the classrooms reduced? Many problems have not been solved, nor will they be. At the end of my words, today is the first day of the new head of staff, and I wish him all the best, but please don't make a quick statement... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to avoid rash behaviors like last semester's SEC president, wishing the university's budgets to be good, and I'm paying you all back with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0009par0442	Thank you, Mr. Light. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0010par0447	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion on the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute your High Council. The ministry's name has been changed by the decree of the law, but it has not yet completed its completion, it must be completed immediately. You must leave your duties with the Regents at once, as soon as possible. As you have promised the appointment of veterinary physicians and agricultural engineers who are waiting for the Tar-Gel Project to be appointed, you must complete them by the end of the year. You said you'd get 10,000 more next year, so please remember that. In the process, we are pleased that the Ministry's General Department of Petting has been established, but it is not right that it is dysfunctional, that it has nothing to do with animal disease and fighting. I still don't understand why the Department of Food Control, which is the continuation of the former Protection Control Directorate, did this. We expect the Department of Animal Control to take over the task of combating animal disease. Mr. President, you have to pay attention to massing in the coming process. There are still 11 million hectares of land in our country. I'm getting word that the district managers have been shut down. If it's true, it's a shame. The Ministry's top priority should be this issue. Despite the law, divisions continue through inheritance. This must be avoided, this is the first condition to increase agricultural efficiency and profitability. The collection of resources must also be increased. What did we say? Put it on the ground, the rest is a game! That's down by half. Citizen is now... The bird family called from Poland the other day. They cry out, "We are no longer able to see the sheep on the plains, on the plains, on the meadows, because we long for the sound of the bell. The citizen says: "We have a staff, we have a shutters, we have a dog, but we have no sheep left to drive." Since 2002, we have listened to pink paintings from power on this bench. Our report card is very good, and the voter supports us. Right, what would a citizen do? In his surprise, you gain power, and now there are those who vote even in fear. My dear friends, look, people are equal in two places. On a chest and on a rock. You all know the mouslla stone. The same prayer, the same tear falling out, but the equality at the chest was broken. With what? It's broken with coal, bridge, pipe, cart, grapefruit, dozer. That's where your success comes from now. So bravery is in state resources. I'd like to share with you the facts: the Turkish peasant, his farmer, uses the world's most expensive diesel, uses electricity, uses fertilizer, uses its medicine, the government watches it. The sheep's presence has fallen by half, the cattle's presence is falling, our Ministry is an audience. We're running low on meadows, meadows, ministry audiences. Animal trafficking, off-the-books sectors continue; the government is an audience. The European Union countries jointly, Turkey marketed; the government is an audience. We're closing the markets of animals from smack disease, rabies, and we're back on track, and our legal proposals are on the shelf. Live breed, live butchery, live feed animals and caricature imports are free, Romanov sheep surrounded, snails are sold in Muslim neighborhoods; the ministry is an audience. Zavot of the East and Southeast cattle, the Indian Kara, the Eastern Anatolian Red, the Southern Anatolian Red, the Black Sea's Jersey, the Karacabey Esmer of Marvara, abandoned; the Ministry is a spectator. It is not enough for our country that the sacrifices of Europe, Argentina, the United States, Brazil, Australia, the Limusin of France, the Cherole, the Hereford, the Simental, the Angus, the victims of the land were devastated, and the sacrifices of the citizens were left in the hands of the people at the feast of sacrifice; the ministry is weeping. What more can I tell you? The country still receives apples, bananas, almonds, cotton, wheat, corn, soy, sunflowers, vinegar, milk, powder, butter from abroad, according to the so-called OECD, the 7th largest agricultural economy in the world, but even crows laugh at it. Teacher, teacher, your studies are good, but the child is dead. They say. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the Turkish farmer has no more lines to sell, no more mules, no more engines. The land's already gone. The citizens are moaning at the gates of execution. That letter is a letter to our president. Behind the signatures -- you're following new -- things are not true, but according to the curve. What will happen to this nation? He wrote on it, too, the strange farmer. You couldn't put enough support in the budget, you couldn't start a basin-based project, you couldn't give away school milk, you made the farmer sick. Since you've become a master, make it happen at once. You keep tricking them with numbers, with ministers, with banks. Look, my dear friends, there's no mistake in the analogy. There's a fox-bastard story. One day the rooster goes for a ride in the village. After a long journey, the rooster looks at the evening, and the evening is dark, and if he returns to the henhouse, he will feed the fox on the way, saying: "Let me spend this night in this tree. It is consumed by the tree, where the night passes. He starts to do his duty in the morning, and he sings, and he sings, and the fox hears it, and the fox hears it, and he says, "Sister Horoz, how well you read it, how well I admire your voice, how well I admire your voice, so let us pray together in the morning. Let the rooster begin to tremble, and if the fox doesn't come down, let the fox eat, and the horoz flee." The rooster is cunning. The rooster says to the fox, saying, "Tilki brother, thank you, thank you, thank you, but here comes a hunter and two hounds, and let them come and pray with the congregation. The fox begins to tremble, and the hunter hears the hound. The fox says, "Don't hurry, I don't have an abscess, I'll take an ablution from the opposite creek." He's cunning, too. These tricks don't stop counting. Hopefully, in the first election, we'll put an end to the cunning and understanding of the Republic's People's Party's rule. (Applause from CHP rows) We will surely reduce the VAT in electricity, milk, and bait to reasonable levels. We'll increase the support twice as much. You can ask about the source. Turkey will be the one who lacks resources. The Turkish farmer will also take a comfortable breath in the rule of the Republican People's Party. Look what's in your pink paintings. I'm putting these in without comment now, why? I've been talking about this a lot, because you've ruined it, you've lost the numbers, you've lost the numbers, you've got this much left. The diesel was an average of $1.10 in 2002, and it now watches around 3.80. In this sense, $5 billion was taken from the villager's pocket only by special consumption tax. I don't take into account the VAT you received from the milk and the bait. You should know what those co-ops are up to when they're paying for this. You say what you give, but you never say what you take. Not the one who eats the onion, but the one who cuts the pain of the onion, my dear friends. Go see what's going on with those co-op presidents while they pay the VAT, the OTV. As for the fertilizer, our MHP spokesman just explained them well. The ammonium sulfate was worth 162 lira in 2002, 640 lira today. I'll tell you 20-20. In 2002, the ton was 254 liras, now $1.020. In July 2002, it was $1.050. Egg chicken feed was 323 lira, 840 liras in July 2011. So these numbers are the real numbers, the figures of the State Statistical Institute. With these rates, I offer you how food, agriculture and animalism can succeed. Last year's milk 70, bait 70, it's over, brother. I told you, you laughed. But this year the citizen cries out, "I'll give up this job." Go see him. Because milk money doesn't pay for the bait. In the old days, one liter of milk used to buy two kilos of food, and now with a liter of milk, about 750 grams of food can be taken. In the meantime, let's not get ahead of ourselves. You've increased production in corn, tics, sunflowers. Is that enough? Absolutely not. Because as input increases increase by 400 per cent, the support is not increasing equally; the loss of the farmer is at least 10 billion dollars due to the price increases in fertilizer, the price increases in diesel, the DVT and VAT. I'm not adding bank loans. Come and get out of this. There's a saying out there, Cici pappa's shining bright, and my hungry stomach is rumbling. My dear friends, Agricultural Law Article 5480 states that the source of the budget for agricultural support cannot be less than one percent of the informal national enemy. We all made that decision together. Do you fit in with this? Absolutely not, you're giving me half. For him, cotton, potatoes, wheat, beets, hash, anise, sunflowers, grapes, olives, apple makers are devastated. Look, 90 per cent of cotton production is made in Adana, Adıyaman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Hatay, Mersin, Şanlıurfa provinces, about 10 per cent include Antalya, Osmaniye, Denizli. The product provides a great deal of employment. In the 2010 production year, it was between $180 and $2 a kilo. As of now, 60 to 70 cents is between 80 and 90 cents if it's first class. You're supporting...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0011par0474	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0010par0475	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0011par0477	Mersin MP Vahap chooses. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Chosen. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0012par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party of my Group on the 2012 budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. My dear friends, we're going to talk about an important sector in every way, a ministry in which he is connected; the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, a ministry in Turkey that concerns the healthy diet of 74 million people, a ministry for plant production, a ministry for animal production. Given his economic contribution to the country, his GDP contribution, Turkey's contributions to prevent social issues, unemployment-based or unemployment-related social issues, today we are talking about a very important ministry under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It's a department that handles all these issues. In Turkey, about 25 per cent of employment is made up of people working in agriculture, so the agricultural sector's share of employment is 25 per cent. That's a very important number. In comparison with the developed countries: In a budget presentation address last Thursday, Mr. Finance Minister pointed to the importance of this issue. The employment share of agriculture in the United States is 1.6 per cent; 3.6 per cent in the Eurozone, 3.6 in the European Union; 5.1 in OECD countries, but 25 per cent in Turkey. Of course, it's a contradiction, it's a paradox. Turkey is improving. Turkey is the world's 17th largest economy, but its share of agriculture is 25 per cent. Mr. Finance Minister says this is a sign of secret unemployment. He says that unemployment is one of the things that the government and the AKP government have failed most. Here is agriculture, which covers the disgrace of Turkey's last nine years of AKP governments. Because Turkey is the head of the most important sectors that absorb unemployment and prevent unemployment from growing rapidly. In each speech, the Minister refers to the perception of agriculture as an economic sector, which he says he believes in, but we see that agriculture has a social aspect. Why did I tell you all this? So, regardless of the conditions, the governments of the Republic of Turkey must support this sector. He's not supposed to be stingy with this industry, he's supposed to be generous. Government officials say, or here, that agriculture is important during the nine-year AKP administrations' process, when valued AKP lawmakers take pledges of interest in agriculture. They try to explain them in numbers. During this process, they talk about growing agricultural products. If, during the time of his speech, for example, corn production in Turkey has increased in Turkey, there is talk of corn production in Turkey, or if the production of narcissists has increased in production, there is talk about the production of citrus, and there is talk about the gambit production. But no speaker mentions production, production loss of products in Turkey, which address this bench. For example, until last year, Turkey was a country importing cotton. While the AKP was a country that exported net cotton before its rulings, Turkey was importing fibrous cotton from 750 thousand tonnes to 1 million tonnes a year. Now, some precautions have been taken over the past year. As part of the new basin-based production and support model or project put into practice, oil seeds have been paid to differentiate or increase bonus support. And this time, production has increased, cotton production has increased, manufacturers are moaning, oh, cotton prices have dropped, we can't sell cotton... What I'm trying to say is that there have been agricultural policies in Turkey for nine years with temporary, daily, palliative measures. As part of stable, medium, or long-term projects, we can't implement an agricultural policy, one step at a time, one step at a time, one step at a time, one step at a time, one step at a time. Now, Mr. Secretary, there's been a crisis in livestock, so let's open the mouth of the pouch... (Look, $4.5 billion in interest-free livestock loans.) Trust me, this is a waste of money. Businesses that have nothing to do with livestock took this money, they're livestock. Tomorrow we are bankrupt. They will say, "There will be no return of these coins, nor of these loans." We have to give up these policies. Look, nine years ago, you have to look at what the manufacturer was complaining about, what the manufacturer was saying, why the manufacturer was yelling. Today, I need to see if the manufacturer makes the same complaints. You can play numbers, you can flip numbers, you can illusion, you can lie, you can say wrong things. Nine years ago, did the manufacturer complain about input costs? He was. Did Mazot say it was expensive? He was saying. Did he say it was expensive? He was saying. The seed said, "We pay dollars, we import, we exchange, we import seeds for high amounts, we import seeds for high coins." Did he say it? He was saying. Is he saying that again today? It said electricity is expensive. Today, again, doesn't electricity say expensive? He says. Mr. Secretary agrees to that. Look, at a meeting in Manisa, at a meeting of the Turkish Chamber of Agriculture institution, he says: "The electricity used in Sera and livestock is 31.5 cents an hour, 8.5 cents a pound from the dwellings, a high cost." Mr. Minister says that. He says the use of electricity in livestock and greenhouses is priced like a business, which is a production activity, should not be considered as a business. Now, I must say good morning to the Minister. The Department of Agriculture has been doing it since 2005, Mr. Eker. You didn't know about this until today? You know, why didn't you take precautions? Either you lack vision or you don't do your duty, then you won't be sitting in that chair. Look, the industry is dying. In the election we went out and said, "My friend, we're going to remove the OTV from Mazot. The refinery is sold for $1.00, the diesel is sold for $3. Therein we have a saying: What do you hope for, your sister, and your sister, who has died? Now, the farmer is already screaming. Wherever you go in the world, wherever you go in an industrialized country, there are farmers supported. If the government can't support the farmer, the farmer can't produce because the input costs are high all over the world, subsidized by the state. You use fertilizer, ammonia, fertilizer, phosphate, fertilizer, nitrate, fertilizer, energy, natural gas, electricity in their production. These include significant costs in production. So if the government doesn't put his hand in his pocket, if he doesn't support the farmer, wherever you go in the world, the farmer can't produce. Here in Turkey, if you approach the farmer with daily policies: "Oh, dear, we supported $6 billion last year, and this year we'll give you $7 billion." The mill doesn't come back with pouring water. Look, my friends have just told me, here, Mr. Secretary, that every time he speaks, "The Great Parliament has signed twelve fundamental laws during the AKP governments." It's fine, but is it in practice? We're doing it on paper, and it's coming to the great Parliament, and it's saying, "All those in favor... Those who don't. It's been done." So, in practice, in actuality, are these laws being carried out? No. We did it there, we did the Agricultural Law, and we said, "We have to support agriculture from central budget for at least 1 percent of Turkey's non-national product for that year." Can we do that? We can't. Last year, Turkey's GDP was $738 billion, in dollars, that's approximately 1.2 trillion liras, and 1 percent of that is $12 billion. See the minister's presentation speech, which was earmarked from the central budget for 2010 for agriculture is $7 billion. The difference is $5 billion. Who passed the law? AKP. Who isn't? AKP. So, did that happen? How do we develop agriculture, how do we develop it? Let's give up, let's not develop agriculture. I just told you, it's absorbing unemployment, contributing to social problems... well, let's give this industry a hand, my dear, and it serves this community that much. It feeds 74 million people, producing healthy generations, generations, to feed. But on the other hand, you can be generous with other sectors. Look, the 2008 crisis only cut the agricultural budget.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0013par0492	Thank you, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0012par0493	The industrial sector, the service sector, the construction industry were made necessary during that crisis, not in the agricultural sector.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0013par0494	Thank you, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0012par0495	The amount of support was cut by 10%, as was not done.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0013par0496	Mr. Chosen, please...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0012par0497	I just want to say, finally, with that understanding, we can't go a mile in the agricultural sector with these policies. These are deceptions, day-to-day policies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0013par0500	Thank you, Mr. Chosener, please take your seat. Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0014par0505	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the group's views of the Republican People's Party on the budgetary budget of the 2012 Budget Bill of Law, the Ministry of National Education. In 1789, the people who deposed the nobles in France with the motto of equality, freedom, brotherhood, and then created a life-share for intellectuals and sensitive people with their brutal, oppressive, and violent practices, until then, the human history is the date of progress. Man's rudeness, the increasingly violent tendencies of the uneducated masses, is a phenomenon observed by German writer Schiller (German writer Schiller) by the French Revolution, and has published a book in 1795 that remains up-to-date in 1795. Schiller suggested the development of his aesthetic sensibility to avoid rudeness, violence, and thus advocated one of man's basic motives as an aesthetic training method. It is a fact that social sensitivity is becoming increasingly reduced in Turkey. The calls to improve formal sensitivity are, in fact, a reflection of a friendly, close-knit mentality. On police radio, citizens are invited to this behavior when they hear ambulance sirens: Please be sensitive to ambulance sirens. How can you be sure that the patient in the ambulance is not a relative? How can you be sure that even the state itself calls on citizens, people, relatives, co-friendly interests to show how foreign we are to a non-profit understanding in Turkey? The state itself encourages this type of human species to grow up because of understanding and practice that protects and protects those close to it, both by its inadequacy and by its guardians and institutions. This is the essence of Turkey's political power's logic of creating allies. Why are people more sensitive than we are in countries far lower than Turkey? Why is it that people in Europe are sensitive to sirens, even though they are not related to sirens? Why are there big green areas in places like Prague, Warsaw, Budapest, where ordinary citizens can have picnics in the middle of cities where they haven't been sacrificed in Ranta? Why are drivers more sensitive to pedestrians in civilized countries? Why is it considered to be privileged in Turkey, to be distinguished, to be owner of property, to have status, to be seen as areas where the individual has achieved himself and earned dignity? However, such measures have long since been valid in both the individual and the community in civilized countries. People are also willing to help without being addressed for pity. The powerful car driver gives way not because he feels sorry for the weak pedestrian, but because he knows that he is even less vulnerable. So how does this happen in some countries whose economy is lower than ours? Because there, Darwinist policies are not supported by tests based on education, passing someone else, overcoming economic income, and the idea that the better ones should win the competition, and that they should be able to pass someone else from primary school. In these schools, social-sharing programmes teach children to play musical instruments, to be able to play sports, to get more or less the ability to paint, to teach them how to make production processes, to weigh in on practical courses, are taught to get rid of the child's custody and take responsibility. In history, it was finally understood that mankind had not always gone far, but Hitler had come to power with the support of the people. After World War II, Schiller's game theory has been updated, and it has been seen how harmful the one-way human type can be to both human history and economic growth to that community. Since then, the importance of multi-dimensional human growth has been understood in Europe, and states have rejected an educational policy that does not take art and sports into active practice without the power. Schools that prioritize art and practical education, such as Montessori and Waldorf schools, are important in the education policy of European states after the painful experiences of human progress, since they prioritize peace with themselves and with society, social and moral responsibility, developing sensitivity. Now, here's to our country. Have you ever considered why you're interested in Turkish television shows in the countries of Arab spring and Middle Eastern geography? Why do women especially like Turkish soap operas? Gazi Mustafa Kemal is the republic founded by Ataturk. A democratic, social, legal state, where women have the right to live freely, choose and be elected, is well-liked in the Republic of Turkey. That's why the Prime Minister spoke and praised the Egyptians in Egypt. By the way, he sends my best wishes, and I wish him a speedy recovery. It's unlikely that we can create our future with a thinking system that perceives life as just money, as a trade, as an al-ver, with an unknowing understanding of where the world will evolve after 50 years. The future can't be fictional with a 2023 raw dream that doesn't land on the ground with strategic plans made for after-the-5018 firms for money. Where's the investment in man and youth? What have you done to improve the intellectual capacity of youth, which we boast is 50 percent under the age of 28? Between 2002 and 2012, when we compared the National Ministry of Education budget to the central budget, the national Ministry of Education seems to have increased from 7.61 per cent to 11,16, but in ten years, the GDP's GDP has increased from 2.66 per cent to 2.74 per cent. In 2002, the budget of the National Ministry of Education, which you did not like, was 17,18. In 2012, it fell to 6.64 per cent. In the ten-year period, the investment budget has decreased by almost three times as much. The OECD average is $7,840 per student per student from primary school, while Turkey is only $1,614 per student. Switzerland and Slovakia spend about 12,000 dollars per child, nearly 10 times more than Turkey. Here's your investment in youth, my dear friends. The Minister's specialty is strategic management, but the Ministry of National Education doesn't have a strategy document. For years, there's no data on how many teachers and how many classes he needs.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0015par0515	You didn't look.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0014par0516	The Minister's final proposal is clear. The teacher who is waiting for 264 thousand says we don't need you. According to the minister, 60,000 teachers will be enough for us. I wonder how many classes the minister has announced this number? There are 80-man classes in place, my dear friends. We still have a system that gives the most foreign language education and still can't teach languages, and we're still leaving primary school 6 in average education. Our schooling rate is far behind the OECD, my dear friends. You've been in power for ten years, my dear friends. I sincerely want to ask some questions: How many classes are there in schools, and any of our lawmakers who will take the child's college exam have not received a report for at least two months? You're always bragging about your so-called achievements, your so-called records in the history of the Republic, and here's a new glory area! Thanks to you, I've read the kid in school and sent him to the classrooms. Because of the number of private homes that were 2,000 in 2002, the number of students registered in the classrooms reached 4,099 today, and the number of students registered in the classrooms reached 1,58,000. The budget size of the classrooms is twice the size of all university budgets by 2010, my dear friends. And then there's the ones we don't know, the ones that aren't registered. I congratulate you on the number of students who have gone to the highest school and classroom in the history of the Republic. What's that, sir? It's a free education. Sir, what have you done? You made books without money. So, who's gonna pay for the school? Those who can't afford her mother, her father, her aunt, her uncle, her aunt, her uncle, go to the school with help from her uncle. Homerooms are the most important indicator of your failure of national education in ten years, my dear friends. What did you do to increase the motivation of teachers? Let me write to you what you're doing: I work as a research officer at the university. My wife was appointed in July 2010, and they appointed her on September 1st to avoid payday. This year, they made the appointment based on August 31st. As a result, my wife, who served in the Siirt Pervari, was not appointed as a wife. Then, the Minister issued a decree in the law that the appointment of the spouse could not be carried out in February. Then we learned from the documents that our Minister had made the appointment of prosecutors, judges, law enforcement partners during this November. Isn't the wife of these judges and prosecutors ours? The kids are kids, so what's ours? What injustice is this? [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, about the wages. When their salary was taken as 100 units in 2005, Turkey's primary school teacher's salary in 1995 with 15 years of experience was 108 units, and in 2009, despite all these years, it dropped to 106 units. The high school teacher's salary was 111 units in Turkey, 1995, and 107 units in 2009. Mr. Secretary, is there anyone with you who doesn't have the power of attorney with the decrees you've issued? Why do you want to change the laws of this law and the bureaucrats who were appointed during the Huseyin Steel era, who also learned the job, who didn't get Ms. Nimet wrong? How are you going to run it with your general managers, your deputy county managers, your proxy appointees? Do you trust your Minister? The Minister can't trust you. He's got 800,000 employees. Can't the Ministry find someone to appoint from the public? You'll go down in history as the Minister who was appointed by his government to liquidate bureaucrats, his friends who had been in office before, his friends who had learned the job, his friends who had been liquidating. Don't play with the bread, Mr. Secretary, it's a sin to play with the bread. For all the reasons I count above, the Republican People's Party Group declares that we will vote against the National Ministry of Education budget, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0016par0527	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter. Here you go, Mr. Serker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0017par0532	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to discuss the SEC budget, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, there are 146 special budgetary administrations. In the 146 special budgetary administrations, the 10th place is the ESF. Why am I saying this? So the SNS is a government-funded institution that has no economic shortage with its own revenues. Let's underline this for once. Two: IN 2011, the OSCE was restructured with a new agency law, and all the wishes of the new head of the OSCE were made to facilitate his hand in this agency's law. So he was equipped with powers to receive the personnel he wanted without being subject to KPSS, and he was able to pay them a large amount of wages. Now, very few institutions have such comforts and privileges in our country. Despite this, the OSCE has become an institution that has been shaken by several test scandals since the new administration took office. REMEMBER the previous CSI, why did the CSS head leave the peninsula? He left on the charge of cheating on the education science exam, didn't he, valued lawmakers? So, have any of the copies been found all this time? He hasn't been found. So what was done? This is what is done: all of the staff who worked at that time were made suspicious, and they were sent to the SEC, and the new head of the OSYM was given the opportunity to take whom he wanted to into the OSYM. Even so, each test was a separate scandal. I don't know if I should remind you, but I do want to remind you that while this whole process is going on, the Pestilence, the Hemisban, was given the questions out, it was sold, so she opened her mouth and didn't say anything. A few months passed, and an explanation came from him: I could not speak out of fear. I wonder what scared him. I wonder what was behind the sale of the questions on the education science exam, and who was involved in the need for a new law to be passed in a hurry, and the restructuring took place? This has not come to light. There's a darkness, a smoke screen, and unfortunately, at that time, the person who saw and knew all the questions of the education science exam was sent abroad on a mission, exempted from prosecution investigation, returned to the same position. We've said it over and over and over, but nothing's been done. Now, I don't want to have to sort through S.E.S. quiz scandals here, there's a list, but I don't want to waste time. But I have to hand it to you, the SNS did one thing very well: it took great measures in the entrance exams. There's been a head-to-head search. The students who almost got X-rayed, they swallowed something, maybe they'd take it back and use it as a copycat; he did it very well. And he did one thing better: he monitors all their movements by listening to all the phone calls of his employees now. Why am I saying this? For what it's worth, it's nothing more than to get pure statistical information from the experts there. We called to get a detailed transcript of the four-year residency of vocational high schools. All the experts we've been looking for and talking to us have been questioned a day later or the same day, unfortunately, Mr. President. I don't know, you know?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0018par0540	Is it on camera?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0017par0541	THE OPJ has become a cosmic institution. Don't bother looking for an excuse, fellas. And underlying the wrong, say "wrong" once, and draw it, so I'm having mercy, so draw it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0019par0542	First, you admit that mistake.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0017par0543	Look, we don't transfer the president to the PM anymore, we don't transfer him to the minister; from now on, we only refer him to God and his conscience because he's still sitting in that chair. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, let's go to the YOK. The NGO has never dealt with the most serious issues of universities. With the economic problems of universities, with the salaries of university professors... look, Mr. Baydar just expressed it, but, of course, let's underline one thing. There are assistant professors, researchers, professors who are paid under the poverty line. But for God's sake, let's not get it right, professors get paid above the poverty line in college, and I don't want to be unfair now. We hope and hope that the new head of the SEC will take some interest in the real problems of universities and that the NGO will now really become an institution that is dictating to the problems of universities. Instead of being a government-oriented institution based on the government, carrying out the government's orders and orders, it should really become an institution that deals with the problems of universities. For example, in universities, why is it that some colleges in the foundation pay 30,000 liras a year for education and another one gets 12,000 liras? Take this one, for example, and look into it. He says to a student who wants to freeze his record for lack of money at a foundation university, if you don't pay for a year in advance, I won't freeze his record. Let him examine this, for example, but, of course, the new head of staff is also a president of the foundation university, so let's see how he looks at it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, the NGO is not interested in any of this, it's not his business. He's just busy looking cute, looking nice to political power. And for him, he stopped and brought up the constant coefficient, and his loyalty in this matter was unfortunately not rewarded by the President, because his loyalty to the former CEC president on the coefficient has been very remarkable in the AKP government. Now, the coefficient issue has been a subject that is constantly considered politically in Turkey, before and after. Someone took precautions against those who wanted to use the coefficient politically, and unfortunately, the party, which is currently in power in Turkey, wanted to take advantage of the coefficient in order to move a certain professional high school group to a high place, to create the power of the future and the backyard. (AC PARTY RUMBLING) That's the truth.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0020par0549	Name it, name it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0017par0550	Wait, listen. You don't know. Learn, learn.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0021par0551	Are we going to learn from you, Nur Haným?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0017par0552	But the coefficient thing is something else. By implementing the coefficient, you bring up a whole group of vocational high school students in Turkey, who continue to attend general high schools and make up 60 per cent of all high school students, who are miserable, abandoned, abandoned, and not tested.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0022par0553	Are you still there?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0023par0554	Too bad, too bad...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0017par0555	You're awarding those who already have gold bracelets by taking out an entire school of professions, for the sake of imam-hating, and ignoring those kids. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0024par0559	Shame on you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0025par0560	It's still a shame...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0026par0561	A little louder, you can't tell.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0027par0562	I'll inform you that we'll vote against the budget, and I'll give you all my regards.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0028par0564	Thank you, Mr. Serker. Congressmans, please be more gentle. Edirne MP Recep Gürkan... Here you go, Mr. Gürkan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0029par0570	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of state universities on the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. I hereby salute the grand jury on behalf of my group and myself. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers thank all our faculty and university employees for their selfless and successful work, despite all challenges, obstacles, low wages and poor working conditions, and I wish our dear students success. Three days ago, we were in Van. Some things can't be told in life. We've really lived. That's one word for Van. I'm sorry to say, we still haven't started training in Van. No elementary school, no middle school, no college education. Nothing is what it looks like on TV. Therefore, students who seek from students at the University of the Hundred Years must be allowed to complete their studies in equivalent programmes at another university, especially for this year of education and education. In this regard, we need to put the Republican People's Party's Law proposal on the table and legalize it so that our students don't lose a year of education because these young people are the future of our country. Dear lawmakers, the university is an educational institution where free thinking is sought for truth, where interrogation, debate, critical thinking is taught, scientific thinking is revealed, and it aims to bring those skills to society. The university must be an environment where all kinds of ideas are open to innovation through science, and all kinds of ideas are freely debated, and creativity is done, and titles and authorities are not important, and there is no hierarchy, and scientific freedom and knowledge is built up. In order to move our universities to this point, scientific research should be supported, resolving international lack of experience and technical inadequacies, creating a culture of science in society, solving the problem of rural universities, increasing the quality of science executives; increasing the quality and quality of professorship and autonomy should be achieved by increasing resources; solving the issue of autonomy. Of course, we have to make a decision first. Do we need scientists or men from us? This dangerous understanding, as a reflection of the struggles of power, is a major blow to the most educated, most tolerant and visionary institution and the life of science, such as the university. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you some of the figures from the OECD's Education 2011 Report. Today in our country, we have nearly 400,000 teachers waiting to be appointed. When we look at the exchange of our teachers' salaries from 1995 to 2009, we see that their salaries are far behind in 1995. One issue that is also important in this report is the number of unemployment. I quote: The unemployment rate of college graduates increased by 3.9% in 1997 to 9.9 per cent in 2009. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers are also very important to the areas where the budget sizes are located for our universities, which are the engine of economic, social and educational life. In our 2012 budget, the GDP rate is 3.64 per cent. We have to increase that to 5.5 percent with an OECD average. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, university budgets, especially investment budgets, must be increased. Over the years, the fact that university budgets are increasing in numbers does not mean anything on its own. The important thing is the increase in investment budgets, which unfortunately we continue to have great difficulties with. When we look at the investment budget of the Ministry of National Education in 2002, we see that the rate, which was 17.18 per cent in 2002, fell to 7,49a in 2006, while in 2011, to 5.85. Dear friends, will we prepare our country for the vision of 2023, 2023, with these figures? No hamasete, no need to read numbers from different places. If we look at the colleges' total investment budgets, we're looking at a much worse picture. For the state university, which has reached a total of 103, its resources are 2 billion and 758 million TL, friends. In this, our share of health and health, or 440 million in college hospitals, is 455 million in RAGE, which we are very proud of, and our share in culture, unfortunately, is only 15 million. Think about it: we pride ourselves on being the world's 17th largest economy, we call it the 10th largest economy. We call it the 10th economy. But the money we spend on culture and RAGE is almost equivalent to the budget of a conglomerate. In nine years, 50 new public universities were established. We have a university in every province now. Of course, as an educator, we can't refuse and deny the opening of a new educational institution. If you'd like to take a look at our newly established universities. Let's see how much our government cares about these universities. In 2006, we set aside a total of 338 million investment budgets for 15 universities. They're 27 million for RD, 500,000 for culture, only 500,000 for 500 billion for friends... We have 17 universities founded in 2007. Again, the investment budget of 17 universities totals 342 million. We've got $28 million for the RD of these 17 universities and $1.3 million for the culture. We have nine colleges that were founded later. Their total investment budget is $179 million. $14 million for RD, and the number we're saving for culture is fantastic, zero dollars. So these nine new universities of ours, where they live, students, citizens of that province, have no problem with culture, they've solved that problem. That's the determination of our government, which means the money they're spending on culture is zero. And then we have nine colleges, which is a little bit more ironic. We've allocated 91 million to invest in our last nine universities, zero for RD, zero for culture. Of course, there's the faculty dimension. I'd like to put it in one sentence before we go into that. Seven of our new 50 universities, with only seven assistant professors, consider themselves lucky, my friends. Only seven assistant professors... Dear lawmakers, we have to change this situation. In order for countries to develop in competitive environments today, more resources must be earmarked for education, teaching and research development, and therefore for universities, which are the basic institution of the information society. Universitys are not a teacher-student community, they are the brains of the information economy, and they have complex structures. If we all know that and accept it that way, it's only going to get us anywhere. Otherwise, if the budget total of all our universities is not a Harvard University, we need to think more about it. Today we're all complaining about not getting into the top 500 colleges in the world. So, are we going to go in with these numbers for the first 500? Is this RD going to be the first 500 to enter with these cultural budgets? Dear lawmakers, hospitals that are an important part of the university...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0030par0591	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0031par0593	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0030par0594	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0031par0595	Mr. President, all bureaucrats, especially the head of the CSI, are on the phone, copying off the outside all the time. I mean, we knew they were cheating, but we didn't know they were. If you warn me, there's no cheating on the phone here, not for bureaucrats, because that's the rules here, unfortunately. It would be counterproductive if they searched through the students and copied themselves here. I'd appreciate a heads-up.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit01spe0030par0597	Thank you, Mr. Tünce. Our friends will probably pay attention. Congressmans, I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law bill in 2012 on the Central Management Act in 2010, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy is now in charge. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Mr. Aksoy, your time is twenty minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0032par0007	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2012. I salute the General Assembly. The 2012 budget will not serve domestic peace and economic prosperity, the country's greatest need, just like the budget of previous years. Unfortunately, this budget is AKP's war and runt budget, not a fair budget; it is not a budget that strengthens the brotherhood of the peoples, nor a budget that eliminates the inequality between the regions. More than a bill that responds to the urgent needs of the people of Turkey, the public, the poor, the laborer, the worker, the peasant, the farmer, the manufacturer, is the private budget of the AKP. This budget bill does not match Turkey's facts. In the budget bill, the share assigned to education, health, social security, justice, producers is also very small, and is not a publicist. The budget is far from meeting the citizen's needs. This budget is AKP's need budget, and AKP's needs are obviously new prisons. With that understanding, if the AKP had set aside the entire 2012 budget to build new and high-security prisons, it would have been possible, even considering that the TOKI (TİKI) is doing well, if the entire 2012 budget had been given to TOKI (TİKİ), it would have been possible with the co-casual investor. Because there are not enough prisons for 20 million Kurds already living in Turkey and for intellectual, democratic, writers and journalists with a conscience to buy them. Today, the number of prisoners and prisoners in Turkey is close to 150,000. That's the highest number in the history of the Republic. Even during the coup, there weren't so many prisoners and prisoners. Every day, dozens of people have been taken into custody and arrested for political genocide operations launched under the name ▪KCK operations. They're doing wave operations, and everyone thinks it's their turn, and they're really wondering when their door's gonna be knocked on. See, only three or four days ago, 21 people were taken into custody and 16 of them were arrested. Among them are deputy mayors, central employees of our party, mayors of the district and district. According to our party's study, 7,748 people were taken into custody within seven months and 3,894 of them were arrested. So that means 1,100 arrests per month. In the last seven months, there have been arrests of five MYK members, 12 Party Assembly members, 28 districts and district heads, 13 mayors and deputies. These numbers are getting up and running every day. On average, 10 persons are taken into custody on a daily basis as a result of these operations, which do not search the September 12th days of coup, without legal grounds, and are arrested. Lawmakers representing the will of the people are still under arrest in prison and the ruling party's not taking a single step in this matter should be the greatest disgrace of this Parliament. From this stand, we send our regards to all our friends in prison, and our hearts are with them. We will continue our righteous struggle. Dear lawmakers, fair budgets can be prepared in democratic environments in which law and social state are dominated. In an environment dominated by an extraordinary regime, a fair and balanced budget cannot be made in a system of massacres every day, in which young bodies fall to the ground, in which mothers shed tears, in a country where thousands of people are arrested by political genocide operations. Therefore, the government must first investigate the Kurdish problem and the cause and solution of the conflicting environment as one of its consequences. In this sense, any material and spiritual resource must be mobilized. See, injustices and inequality between the region over the years have also shown itself in this budget bill. The rapidly increasing unemployment in the region has not been resolved, especially to 70 per cent young unemployment. The non-foreign unemployment rate in the region is higher than in other parts of Turkey. More than half of the region's population lives below the poverty line. The population, which is a sign of poverty, is treated with a green card, is determined to be about 10 million across Turkey, while close to 50 per cent of them are seen in 21 cities where Kurds live intensively. The green card ratio is higher than half the population in Hakkari, Ağrı, Van and Bitlis. Speaking of which, since New Year's Eve, the green card app is being terminated. Have you ever considered how 10 million people will benefit from their health care? It is clear that public resources that appear to have been transferred to the region have been heavily spent on defence and security, not responding to the expectations of the region's people for work and forage. A limited amount of public investment in the region is not intended for the development of the region and the employment of its people. These are energy sectors, and those investments that are not directly useful to the region should not be ignored for the damage and destruction of the region's ecological stability. Although Turkey is close to 16 per cent of its population, Turkey's region, which shares much lower than its public spending averages, is also treated as the other one in local government spending. In some counties, the urbanisation rate is up to 60 per cent, while infrastructure investments towards solving problems have always been kept low at the centre of local administrations as Turkey's average is rapidly growing. In October and November, two major earthquakes shook the largest disaster, while the wounds of the government's undocumented government still remain unresolved, and the income of Van Municipality, the life vessel of the earthquake survivor, was brought to an end. Now, we're looking at the 2012 budget for a single penny for the earthquake in Van. What kind of a sense of justice is that? The municipality of Van demands a loan of 15m Turkish liras from the Bank of Provinces. Let's see how you respond to those demands, all of us together. The area needs immediate access to the source. This entry is inevitable for the poor in the region to feel equal citizens of a fair society as well as to maintain their daily lives. The immediate needs of the region are health, education and transportation infrastructure investments. Investments in these areas will improve the quality of the regional labour force and pave the way for development in various sectors. Dear lawmakers, progress should be as much in social, political, cultural levels as it is in economics, and the front must be opened. In the area where Kurds live in weight, a political, social and cultural environment that recognizes differences as legitimate, where differences are not rejected should be created immediately. The right to self-improvement with political, economic, and cultural rights should be fully and equally available to all of society. Public education, the possibilities of teaching areas, the parting of the budget is one of the essential conditions of social development for all citizens living in Turkey to improve their native language. The region has a very important distance to travel by trade with border countries. The arrangements to develop border trade must be rushed, and he must be given the opportunity. The Southeastern Anatolian region is a plant production area, and the Eastern Anatolian region is a livestock area. Agriculture and livestock have significant potential in the region, but because of the limited employment opportunities in agriculture, this potential region cannot provide a cure for economic development. In particular, livestock has been brought to an end in the region. Mr. Secretary is a local and he knows it. The biggest problem with animalism in Turkey is the conflict and violence that has been going on in the region for the past 30 years. This conflict has shaken the region's economy to a very serious extent. Again, the bans on cannabis and pedestrians have brought agriculture and animalism to a standstill in the region. Thousands of hectares and pedestrians have been banned for security reasons, and these bans are still under way. Again, thousands of acres of land have been mined, and these mines are still not cleared. The government must put the resources needed to clear the mines in the 2012 budget. These areas should also be assigned to locals for agricultural production. The cost of clearing the mines of the first and second-class farmland is a character that will return in as short as five years. In addition, more than 15,000 producers and engineers will be employed in the region, while increasing imports of agricultural products will be reduced with the production of 100,000 tonnes. Because it has been identified and expressed by experts that if minefields are opened to agriculture, $20 million a year can be made clear. However, we do not understand the AKP government's intention to attract these lands to foreign companies at all costs. Added to the mandatory migration from 1990 to 95, the rural area was thoroughly emptied, resources were destroyed, people were cut off from production, and instead of producing, they were forced to migrate west to be seasonal workers, construction workers, or garbage collectors. With forced migration, many potentials in the countryside -- which are at the head of animalism -- remained at the forefront. Dear President, valuable MPs, agriculture is a strategic sector. For mankind, its value and importance grow more and more. The biggest indicator of this is that the world's prices of agriculture and food have been increasing steadily lately. The agricultural sector, which is so important to the world, is also a vital area for our country. In this sense, our country is one of the most fortunate countries. In other words, agriculture has an extraordinary social and economic value for our country, but it shows the AKP Power's wrong policies and practices on agriculture and animalism, which is not aware of the importance. It is also evident from the practices the government has ruled out in agriculture and agriculture. That's why, today in this country, the manufacturer, the farmer, is miserable. Production is down. Turkey, including basic products, has become dependent on the outside and has been reduced to importer. All over Turkey, farming farmers are crying blood because of the wrong policies of power. No one hears their cries, no one helps them. Farmers were pushed into solitude. In particular, farmers in the region have been treated as stepchildren for years and are still being treated. The tobacco and beet producers in the region are losing because of the quotas applied, bringing them to the end. The manufacturer can't get its seed, its fertilizer, its diesel, to plow its field and plant it. Turkey's farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel. Those who sow their fields can't even afford their crops because of the quotas the government has put on agricultural products, because of their low price policies. In short, the farmer, the farmer, cries out for blood, and no one hears the farmer's cries. Everyone hears our farmer's cries, and if anyone doesn't, it's the AKP Power. We used to be one of the seven countries in the world that were self-sufficient in agriculture." Turkey, a happy and proud country, unfortunately has reached an end because of its policies of the IMF, the World Bank, and the unwitting, incompetent authorities. The Minister claims that we are still seventh in the world in agriculture today, but the economic indicators and street language show that this is not the way it is. As I mentioned earlier, the farmer, the peasant, the beet maker, the tobacco maker, the nut, the olive, the tea and the wheat manufacturer, are crying out for blood. He also describes the vision of 2023 as "an agricultural sector that continues to grow, with $150 billion in agricultural exports, $40 billion in agricultural exports, which are among the world's top five countries in terms of regional economic size." We would very much like and support the fulfillment of this wish that the Minister has set out for Turkey's agriculture. However, the AKP's ruling policies and wrong practices thus far show that this vision is nothing more than a dream. It also plays with constant numbers, drawing pink paintings for its institutions, which can suddenly enrich Turkey overnight. Dear lawmakers, 60 per cent of the country's land is arable land. Unfortunately, only 20 percent of this land can be considered to be farmable land. However, how does the Netherlands, which owns only 7 per cent of Turkey's land, a part of its land being won by the sea, export $5,3.3 billion a year of agricultural products? Turkey must think hard about it and work hard on it. Turkey's primary aim in its agriculture, food and animalism policies, a country with a growing population, should be to provide enough food for its own population. It also requires increasing production by using environmental and advanced techniques and scientific and systematic support for agricultural producers. In 2002, the share of agricultural production in Turkey's illegal domestic product was 10.3 per cent, while the figure was reduced to 8.3 per cent in 2009 and 7.8 per cent in 2010. Precious members also hold an important position in the field of employment in the agricultural sector in our country. The total employment share of the agricultural population is 1.6 per cent in the United States; 2.3 per cent in G7 countries; 3.6 per cent in Europe; 5.1 per cent in the OECD countries; 1/4 of Turkey's population, 25 per cent in the agricultural sector. This painting reveals how important the agricultural sector is to Turkey. However, the AKP's government is considering reducing more and more resources each year to leave the budget for agricultural support. The 2012 budget envisioned a total of 11 billion euros in support of the agricultural sector, which is less than 1 per cent of the national income. According to the Agricultural Law, however, there is a determination that the source to leave the budget for agricultural support will not be less than 1 per cent of the illegitimate national enemy. The AKP itself made the appearance, and the AKP itself is the one who failed to comply with it. In 2010, wheat production was held at the level of 2002 during the AKP. The production of groceries, tobacco, and cotton has been reduced, producing sugar beets and the manufacturer has been disinherited. There has been a significant decline in the number of cattle and small ones. As a result of the decline in production, the country is sentenced to meat imports. At first, due to the wrong agricultural policies of the AKP government, large facial measurements, different ecologys, different species and racial animal presence have jeopardized animalism and agricultural products production in our country. In our country, which has a population of 25 per cent in agriculture, political power must immediately come up with a solution to the decline in the number of living animals. As a result of the wrong policies in Turkey, the number of cattle, 16.5 million in 1980, was reduced to 10.5 million in cattle, and the number of sheep with 50 million were reduced to 25 million. Against all these problems, the government is on its way directly to importing live animals, putting aside the option to increase animal supply in Turkey. False and inadequate support policies, high entry, especially high bait prices, have been transferred to our country's country's tens of thousands of breeders and dairy animals as a result of low milk prices. Dear lawmakers, the IMF and the World Bank imposed the neoliberal policies in our country have begun to force industrial agriculture. The small landowner farmers are in the process of liquidating, and the winner of this process is multinational agricultural food companies that dominate all over the world. The rescue of agriculture from this spiral in Turkey depends on the needs of our own people and the implementation of a program focused on labour and production in accordance with the specific ecological conditions of our country. As I ended my conversation, the Van earthquake caused a major disaster in Van's people, the agricultural and animal manufacturer's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to point out that he needs support and a lot of help. I'd like to believe that our Minister will make a special effort in this matter. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0033par0046	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Kars MP Property One. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. One, 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0034par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to share our party's views on the National Ministry of Education's 2012 budget. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by saying that national education needs democratic, scientific, and radical structural changes in accordance with the spirit of the 21st century, noting the chronic problems of the Ministry of National Education. I'd like to stress that this institution, which shapes society, prepares individuals for life, is responsible for a mission in Turkey that consumes hope for the future, enragsses people, is unscientific, does not give them the ability to live. Since the AKP government came to power, its most important performance of education has been free distribution of textbooks. Other than that, he's got nothing to do with it. So that he also used his work as political material, as if it was all about paying for textbooks, especially in the villages, as a voter propaganda. On the one hand, he gave free textbooks, and on the other hand, he required to buy magazines and additional books at a rate of 10, 20, times the wages of textbooks. On the one hand, he said there would be no registration money, and on the other hand, he had problems making a record of the student who didn't pay for the registration. The school's expenses, such as janitors, cleaning and warming, have not been paid enough. The quality of education will be improved, radical reforms in education are said to be done, on the other hand, schools have been disabled, teachers have been forced to teach their students a paid lesson in courses, not because of the difficulty of economic conditions. Schools have been made into institutions that don't teach, they don't give diplomas, they're dysfunctional and they run technical jobs. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been told that in order to increase the rate of girls from elementary school to secondary school, girls will be supported by girls and students who continue in secondary school, 25-30 lira is not given or paid every three months. This hurtful practice was described to honey honey honey, and 25 lira in education, which didn't even pay for a book, was considered a step towards reforming. You're going to save the children of Kars, who don't have a single employee, who doesn't even have any income, who have no money, who are in Iğdır, Hakkari, Sinop, and Tokat? Who are you going to convince that things are going well in the educational system that's been turned into a wreck by these deceiving, blinding practices? Today in Turkey, two-thirds of the schools still have bilateral education, education and transport practices in combined classes. In transport education, students are placed on services in the form of stacks of fish, no lunch, or passed on to a fruit juice cracker. The schooling rate in primary school is still in the 98 per cent, the secondary education rate in secondary school is still 60 per cent. A significant part of those who don't go to school are girls again. Come on, girls, we're at the School of Mother-Girls. Projects are nothing more than assimilation projects. There is a big difference between the number of students enrolled in school and the number of students attending school. Dear lawmakers, we know scientifically that the personality of a child is within the age of zero to six. Children who are not educated in their native language have been eliminated from mental development, learning skills, and the chance to acquire a healthy identity. Also, the age of starting school has been reduced by deepening the dimensions of assimilation to make it forget the native language. It may be an effective way to start school at an early age, but if the child is educated in his native language. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, do not leave sufficient funds in the budget to address the problems the disabled face in their right to education. The disabled education centre is not enough to respond to the need. The employment of teachers, guidance counselors, psychologists, and assistant staff is extremely inadequate. The number of schools and classrooms still remains in Turkey. Most villages sit in threes and fours at a time, with no physical environments for children to exercise, to engage in cultural activities. The school's lack of physical structure and equipment has not yet been restored. In the latest Van earthquake, all the schools that were alleged to have been strengthened against earthquake danger have collapsed, teachers who have no shelter, who have been persecuted have been victims of this system of education that has become a wreck. Yes, another problem is the YIBOs, which are brought up by sexual harassment and rape on children with a bleeding wound of education. These schools remain the centers of inferior education, assimilation. Students who are away from their settlements, who are not fully satisfied with their needs, are unable to endure the difficult conditions here, and prefer to leave school. The schooling rate for primary education in Turkey, where the intergalactic scissors are increasingly opening, is 98 per cent in Turkey, 85 per cent in Hakari, 87 per cent in Bitlis and Mush. 88 per cent in Van. 91 per cent in Bingley, 93 per cent in Ağrı. The schooling rate in secondary school is much lower. At 65 per cent in Turkey, Ağrı is 22 per cent in Ağrı, 23 in Mush, 28 per cent in Van and Bitlis, 36 per cent in Bingley, 41 per cent in Hakkari, and 48 per cent in Kars. In secondary school, the attendance rate was very low, and in the 2008-2009 school year, 360,000 young people left high schools without a degree. According to the Education Reform Initiative, 2,000 students leave school every day. Young people between 15 and 19 years of age in Turkey who are neither students nor employees are 40 per cent in girls and 25 per cent in boys. In contrast, when we look at the OECD averages, we see that the rate is 9%, 8%. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have become almost impossible for a student who doesn't go to the school in Turkey. The student who graduated from the university was unable to win the KPSS (KPSS) without going to the classroom. So, what do students learn in elementary school, high school, college? We say this is directly related to the quality of education, which is non-scientific and non-scientific. If the student can't settle down with the knowledge he's getting from school, he can't get a life skills, he can't get a job, then what is the function of the schools? Aren't schools learning institutions? What will the student who can't go to the classroom do? The competition between our children, who are entered into a race starting from elementary school, has increased with the classrooms, and the classrooms have completely lost the quality of education given in schools. Dear friends, one of the most important reasons for this bad course in education is the lack of teachers. According to the National Minister of Education, there are 146,194 teacher deficits. On the other hand, there's an unemployed teacher approaching 400,000. So, how do you try to fix this teacher gap? Contracted, paid and substituted teachers instead of staff teachers. Furthermore, Mr. Minister of National Education has instructed the candidates of teachers who have finished school with such a great amount of difficulty, not to be appointed, but to work according to your own interests and abilities. Congressmans, the textbooks still haven't been renewed today. No progress has been made except for a few superficial studies. The racist, sexist, sexist, unscientific elements in textbooks are not isolated. When we look at the AKP's educational policy, commercialisation and privatisation practices appear to be increasing in education. It is possible for us to see intensive political staffing practices in the central and rural services of the Ministry of National Education, where flexible employment has increased, public schools have been sold, private schools and universities are supported by public resources, the curriculum has been re-created in a marketing and backward context. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to continue by listing the lives of the teachers, the students, who sum up the education system in Turkey and make us feel like we're in Turkey. You're a citizen of Turkey if you're still unemployed after you've finished college and have been tested for dozens of tests from primary school to university. If in your country, you are a student in Turkey if you are being beaten by a teacher, and you are being beaten by a small child like Efe Boz, who dies in accidents. Students are revolutionising Chile, valued MPs. If you're in prison for 18 months because you want to study without money, you're a protest student in Turkey because you don't want representatives of the mentality that prohibits scientific education in schools. If you're being attacked and insulted because you want to train in your native language, you're being denied, you're Kurdish and you're the other one in Turkey. If you're being shot in the back and killed like Sherzan Kurt, Aydın Erdem, Murat Elibol, and you're being hit in the head with a gas bomb like Mahsum Karaoglan, and you're still not being punished, you're being lynched because you're Kurdish and democrat, you're a university in Turkey. If you can barely read and become a teacher and get out of work, if you're stuck like a mine worker in a forgotten city and you're coming back to your mother in a coffin, you're a teacher in Turkey. If your schools are collapsing, you can't find money to buy books, books, pencils, and if you're rolling eyes in an Internet cafe, like little Yunus of Van, like Uğur Kaymaz in Kızıltepe, you and your father are getting shot in the head with the air of a soldier like Ceylan Önkol, and your body is torn to pieces, and you're not coming to the prosecutor's village to study it, and you're being milked by what they call a gas cartridge in Turkey, while you're sucking milk from your mother, like Mehmet Uytun in Cizre. Yes, if any of these things happen to you, you're a baneman, you're an Izmirian, you're a Karsian, you're Hakkali, Sinoplu, Zonguldak, you're from Van, you're from Turkey. Yes, lawmakers, it would make our jobs even more difficult to stand up and praise the education system in Turkey and defend the existing system. We all have to accept that this is what it looks like, but what's not what's more obvious, is that things are not going well in the current education system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We need to think together about what must be done to solve this very serious problem. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0035par0086	Thank you, Mr. One. Van MP Özdal Threeer. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Threeer, 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0036par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I begin by greeting the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the higher education board, the student selection and placement centre and the university budget. While we were talking about this budget and this budget, we would very much like to say: Here's the budget of an institution that has been prepared for a fair and equal budget and the budget of democratic governance -- which needs to be abolished -- when you say student selection and placement center -- people are thinking about it, they're going to shorten all the problems of education, but there's going to be no more problems of education, such as an abbreviating center, which we're going to have to remember, and almost all the students who are going to be able to have a very good budget, fair budget, equal budget, equal budget, all the problems of education, all the problems of education, all the problems of the students who are going to be cut out of education, all the student loans, all of which are going to be out of all the above scholarships. But during your ten-year government, during the ten-year administration of the AKP government, we know very well that the same will continue after today if education has been tried to build a commercial area that is being pursued by all institutions and all fields of private capital. While university students are making a press statement on democratic education, education, free education, scientific education and so on, and those university students have no conditions to complete university education, while they have a housing problem to stay in, while they have some spending problems in their pockets, while there are some misery in the canteens, millions of dollars will be transferred from that SEC budget to private security companies, and those private security guards will kick college students flying.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0037par0094	What do you mean?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0036par0095	It's an event that happened, and I've... it's been in the press, something you should know about. Yesterday, he was on the news, too. Yes, there's a process called the Bologna process. In fact, through the Bologna process, there is a project in Europe to transform Europe into a trading centre, a trading centre for students, and a trade centre for students, and a trade centre for students. Part of Turkey's greatest ambition is to be included. Why? His students are eager to sign a formation that will bring small-income family children to a level of spending in college cafeterias. In colleges, academics can't provide for themselves in any way, not for their scientific research, not for their own social life. Investigators or vets. Education workers, training workers who serve in various services in different institutions and institutions. It's obvious what the student's condition is. But at colleges, someone can find a mechanism that can make a huge profit. The cafeteria trades, private security companies, private caterers, and, for some reason, it's a certain runt environment with a close relationship with power and then it's a capitalized environment. But the university student is being detained, arrested, wronged in the long trial process, and in some way, he doesn't even have justice for that student. But in universities, those who gallop for a run for a run, and turn all of these universities' financial resources into an opportunity hunter for their own political interests and economic interests, and even those who commit legal crimes can just walk right in. It's not just the ACK-based colleges, but everyone who's against it is taking a beating from this system. There are academics from the KCK. For example, Mr. Hodja, I salute all the prisoners of the KCK, in the person of Büşra Ersanlı. So how far is this going to go? How many millions do you think are in Turkey? We're one of them. It won't. He'll have to arrest millions of NEPs, if this system continues like this.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0038par0098	Is there that many ACK people?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0036par0099	Try it, go ahead, new ones come out every day. In this country, yes, they have experienced pressures, persecutions, but they have always fought for freedom. That's how it's gonna go on. Just as the system, the dominant system, today the ruling AKP, is knitting the networks of neoliberal policies and trying to put anyone who opposes this system in prison in some way, a people who are passionate about freedom, whether young or old or old, will continue the struggle for freedom, regardless of who they are.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0039par0101	Democracy...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0036par0102	Democracy is up to you, everyone knows how democratic you are. Talking about college problems is actually something that everyone can do because turn a college student, where he describes student problems better than 550 lawmakers, or he describes the problems of any academic himself very well, but we haven't been able to build a system that listens to a student or an academic. It's just a system that works, a neoliberal, capitalist, profit cycle, an economic Rant system that's been created, and it's a finite system, not an endless system. In this system, of course, someone may be buying ships for their own children, but in a system where all children can't have ships, there will be people who will stand up to that system. In this system, someone can make their children study in foreign universities by spending large economic expenses, but people living in different parts of Anatolia and Mesopotamia and having a common fate line of poverty will suffer from this system and will express their suffering. Recently, there have been thousands of aftershocks that have felt the impact of the 40th day, and there have been great earthquakes, and great destructions, and people who have lost their lives, and people who have lost their relatives, and people who have been injured. I salute all the people of Van, who are standing in the midst of all these trials, to all the people of Van, to all our people, and to those who have lost their lives, and to those who have died, I pray for God's mercy, and good for the wounded. But I know very well that the Van earthquake, the Van earthquake, has been turned into political rant material by the ruling party and by the Prime Minister himself. The students said they were ACK. They were arrested, academics said they were KCK. They said they were, too, but a new concept entered into the KCK-li literature: I'm not saying that if we'd stayed in the earthquake today, we wouldn't be living today as a political tragedy. I'm not saying that it's a real tragedy. I'm not saying that when people are in line to buy tents, they're being soaked with water on a day of negative 11 degrees cold, and a lot of people say, "If only we'd stayed in the earthquake, we wouldn't live today. I'm not saying that this is a real tragedy. I did not move to Ankara as a deputy, nor did I bring my children. I'm a Van, my family's an earthquake victim, and we don't have a tent to stay in right now, just like the Vans. There are thousands of families living their lives under the plastic shed and under the plastic tent that he has built himself -- who have made tents in his own way. Do you know that? But the government's spokesman, for some reason, explains it. Yesterday, I don't know how he made such a embarrassing statement, but Mr. Van, we sent 260 containers, and we built a prefabricated house, he says. More than a million people lived in Van, and more than 600,000 lived in Van City, Erciş. There are many buildings with no stones left on them, and 90 percent of the buildings are unusable. Half the population had to emigrate, not because of the earthquake, but because of the cold. He calls me from Çankırı yesterday, saying: "I have come here, but my misery here is more than my misery in Ercish. " How can I heal, now, how can I help this earthquake victim? We know that the Istanbul earthquake didn't heal, nor did Simav's earthquake. Because there's no logic to public service in this country. A high school girl -- she's on TV, she's on camera recordings -- said to me, "I'm also a teacher: I wish I'd been buried instead of going through this misery." She said, "I wish I hadn't." There's CCTV footage, so please don't do anything about it. If you'd like, I'll have you visit every house in Van, one by one, and he'll treat you to that humble Van Caledosh in that tent, and he'll treat you to a baldie.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0040par0106	We don't need you. 500 of them are already in our city.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0036par0107	Yeah, he'll treat you to a baldie. Dear friends, there are so many things to say, but there are certain moments when the word is finished. There are moments when the word ends. I wish this earthquake hadn't happened. I wish these people hadn't died: I wish no one had been hurt. I wish no one had to help Van. But, this earthquake happened, our people died, our people were injured, and there are still 6,000 of those wounded who died from that earthquake, and they count as the death toll. We have babies who were burned to death in the tent when they survived the earthquake. So if you're laughing, I just want to congratulate you, just congratulate you. Well done, well done, I'd say you have a very good budget. Yeah, yeah, our problem is so big. People are going through such a great human tragedy in Van. Eighty years ago in Erciş, the state suffered a greater tragedy. There was the Zilan massacre in Erciş, and the children of the Kurds who were slaughtered for the Zilan massacre cried out: ............. ........... [[*]] The same cry is now echoing in Ercish. The one who lost his brother cries out, "Where is my mother, my sister?" Shame on those who say, "The wounds have been inflicted on Ergish." Shame on those who say that the wounds were covered in Van. Shame on those who say that all the effects of the earthquake were removed at Ergish.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0041par0117	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Kars MP Yunus Kılıç on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Sword, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0042par0121	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, budget talks are being held, budget means money, means resources; of course, we have an understanding that strives to ensure that this resource reaches the most deserving hands. AK PARTY prepares these resources in such thoughts. Now, by giving very brief answers to one or two of the speakers, Mr. Vakap has said that they don't have credit returns, which means they're not credited, but they're not. I think they're saying that without knowing the numbers -- the return rate in loans that were used before the AK PARTI is 38 percent, is now 98%. While listening to Ramadan Kerim Bey, of course, he had a lovely presentation, and we watched with excitement...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0043par0125	The founding philosophy of the Bank of Agriculture is a black-day friend of the village.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0042par0126	...he pulled a few different animals out of each pocket, and I expected, frankly, that he was going to pull a rabbit out of his hat. Do you know why I expected that?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0044par0127	When animals didn't stay alive, he set a model, so what the hell?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0042par0128	Why did I expect that, members of the law? Because it's a tradition that I've been convinced that in the last 50 years of this country... my village, my farmer, my citizen. I knew they had learned from Demirel, who had wasted it, so I believed that a rabbit could come out of his hat.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0045par0129	Mr. President, do you copy? (*) Some words were expressed in a non-English language by the Minister in this chapter.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0042par0131	Halil Aksoy Bey said he doesn't produce farmers, he imports everything. But that's not the case, right now the Turkish farmer is exporting $13 billion, importing $4 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0045par0132	I don't know if he's gonna pull a rabbit out of the hat, but he's gonna get you out of his pocket.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0042par0133	The Honorable Congressman imports $13 billion exports, $4 billion. The number of animals has decreased. He said Halil Aksoy Bey. Yes, it's true, in Turkey, the number of animals has dropped from 50 million sheep to 24 million, from 15 million cattle to 9 million, from 1 million buffalo to 80 thousand, 15-20 million goats to 5 million, but do you know how long? Congressmans until 2002. Turkey is the first country in the world when you look at the declines in the number of animals in Turkey in these years.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0046par0135	This doesn't suit you, Congressman! You lie a lot and you fool people. It doesn't suit you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0047par0136	So it increased after that or after 2002!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0046par0137	It increased after 2002! Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0048par0138	But from 2002 to today, animal numbers have a way out of 9 million to 11 million in cattle. So the AK PARTY has stopped the descent down, and it's starting to go up.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0046par0140	Don't lie to me! You're a big congressman!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0048par0141	Honourable MPs, it's not that simple. Look, if you'll listen, I'd like to talk to you about two concepts you've never heard before. One of these...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0046par0142	If you lie like that, no one will listen. That's not what the numbers say. Don't lie.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0048par0143	There is no greater disrespect than calling a scientist a liar.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0046par0144	No, you're lying.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0049par0145	A scientist doesn't lie, he shouldn't. You're not supposed to hit the numbers.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0050par0146	Then tell me the truth.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0051par0147	Now, respected lawmakers, the important thing is that for the first time in the world, I'm saying this so that I can settle in literature. It's not something that's been said before: food safety for animals. Look, they use it for people, but one of the most important things you know in the world right now is the shortage of sustainability in the supply of food that has become strategic products. That's food security. Sheikh Edebali, you know, has a saying: "Live man so that the state can live. " Respected lawmakers, when I look at it from the point of agriculture and livestock, I change it like this: let the animal live, let the people live, let the state live. It's a very important concept.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0052par0148	In your literature, let me show you the book!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0051par0149	We now have problems at this food safety supply point in Turkey. Yes, opposition MPs at the point of agriculture and livestock are angry at our comparisons between 2002 and 2011 in Turkey for some reason. Because the numbers are so good, there's nothing to say.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0053par0150	My dear brother, talk about imports, talk about the project, talk about Angus! Say some of that!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0051par0151	But there is one other important thing: Turkey is a country that has its sights on it, Turkey is now a country whose claims are big, and it has a obligation to provide more agricultural and animal products for Turkish people. Are we still good enough at this point? Can we say we're qualified?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0054par0152	You've got a long nose!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0051par0153	We still have a serious problem at the point of red meat consumption in Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0055par0154	Thank God we're not eating! You'd burn if we consumed you!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0051par0155	But look, respected lawmakers, I've told you this in my constituency, Kars. Kars figured it out, the Kars peasant figured it out, and he sent me here to vote 22 percent on this election. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) And this is CHP and MHP...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0056par0157	There's another Deputy Kars here!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0057par0158	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0051par0159	The road to agriculture and livestock is good. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0057par0162	Mr. Sword, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0058par0163	How much money did you guys spend? How much money did you give away?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0059par0164	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0057par0165	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0059par0166	Congressman, the member of our group accused Mr. Özkan....of pulling a rabbit out of the hat. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0060par0167	No, it's not for the group, it's for the person.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0057par0168	He can speak for himself, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0060par0169	He can speak for himself, sir. Mr. Slim, he can speak for himself.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0057par0170	Let him answer himself, the taunt belongs to him.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0061par0171	He said he didn't understand our group, the CHP MPs.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0060par0172	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0062par0173	He said the name of the party.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0063par0174	If that's all right with you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0060par0175	Is that the hat band's hat? No...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0063par0176	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0064par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, the rabbit extractions from the hat are behind us, but we know who hatched the Ergenekon from the egg; that's number one. Second, Mr. Ramadan Kerim Özkan has been a member of parliament for nine years. He won't pull a rabbit out of a hat, but he'll definitely take you out of his pocket on agriculture. [[Applause from CHP rows]] One third, and that's, we know who's pulling rabbits out of hats, but there's a lot of green dollars coming out of yellows lately, so I'm telling you to watch out for them. When you taunt the Republican People's Party with its roots, its fundamentals, its main philosophy, when you're dealing with the republic, no one has any doubt that we will give the Republican People's Party your response in every manner of speech, solidly, exponentially. Thank you all.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0065par0187	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0066par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0067par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0068par0190	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0069par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0070par0192	One minute... one minute... I'm listening, one at a time.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0071par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0072par0194	Mr. Speaker said I was lying, there was teasing.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0073par0195	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0072par0196	The speaker said I was lying, twisted the numbers. I want your word on that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0073par0197	No, I'm lying...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0074par0198	Mr. President, the Minister said the opposite of what Mr. Aksoy said. He'll answer the phone.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0075par0199	Here you go, sir. Don't give me any more trouble, Mr. Aksoy. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0076par0203	Mr. President, of course, Mr. Hatip from Kars, not only is there one MP, but there are other MPs, but we've also received information from those MPs. What they say doesn't match what Mr. Hatibin says. Because the numbers that I've given are the numbers that we've gotten from AKP sources again. Now, it's only a matter of talent to turn something upside down so easily. Well, obviously, Mr. Orator's got a knack for that, too. As of 1980 cattle, 16.5. These are your numbers. 10.5 as of 2010. It's that clear.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0077par0206	Sing 2002.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0076par0207	Don't go to 2002, don't go, okay. It's true that there was more when the war was concentrated, when the conflicts were concentrated.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0078par0209	What war?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0079par0210	It's war.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0076par0211	It's been further down, they're true, but today it's still very far below the 1980s, and it's half the size, so to speak.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0080par0212	Sing 2002.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0076par0213	These numbers are their own numbers. If they don't honor them, there's not much to say. Again, at the point of the sheep. Same numbers on the sheep. One is 50 million in 80, and the number is 23 in the 2010 figures. Well, I guess it's the difference between 23/50...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0081par0215	23 bigger [!]
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0076par0216	...the Minister is well-versed to appreciate it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0082par0217	You can't flip over. Our friend who's used to reading backwards.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0076par0218	They're used to it, yes, they're used to it, because that's what happens when you turn it upside down and it turns it upside down. Besides, we still have a lot to count at this point. If time were enough, there'd be a lot of agricultural policies...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0083par0221	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0076par0222	...I could have made it very clear what had been done...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0083par0223	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0084par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0085par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0083par0227	Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0086par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0085par0229	Mr. Orator has made a statement that I gave false information. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0087par0230	Mr. President, the Deputy Director of the Group has spoken on their behalf.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0088par0231	Just a minute, Mr. Lawmakers. I'll take turns learning your demands. Mr. Chooser, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0089par0233	Mr. Orator has made a statement that I gave false information. If you'll excuse me, sir, I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0088par0234	Here you go. Mr. Özkan, I've just asked you, you've handed over your rights to Mr. Tüyük.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0090par0236	No.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0088par0237	You said he could speak. Thank you for that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0090par0238	Mr. President, he spoke on behalf of the group, on behalf of myself... no bullying, just the facts...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0088par0239	No, sir, that's what I said. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0091par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hatip said that there was a problem with the return of agricultural loans, and I said: "They opened the mouth of the pouch to solve problems daily because of problems in the animal industry, and they distributed $4.5 billion in loans. These loans actually went to non-animal businesses. There's going to be trouble in these businesses one day tomorrow, and there's going to be trouble in these credit returns. It's in the transcripts, it's one.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0092par0244	You're not telling the truth, you're still saying the same thing. You're still lying. You're going out to fix it and you're repeating the wrong thing.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0091par0245	Two, Mr. Orator, they say there's a 98 percent rate on credit returns. Now, the bureaucrats are cheating on the Ministry, cheating on the Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0092par0246	The Bank of Agriculture doesn't give loans without collateral.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0091par0247	See, here's the thing: agricultural loans are seasonal, used yearly. He gets the manufacturer's loan, and then he removes his product, six months later, eight months later, 12 months later, he goes to the bank to pay his debt. That money he's paying, that money in his pocket, it's not his money. He borrows three days, five days' debt, or he takes a loan from a private bank, puts it on an agricultural loan, goes back a week later, takes the same agricultural loan and puts it back in his pocket. So this is a hoax, which means the farmer's debt is still in play. Now, as the opposition here, we're exploring problems for the agricultural sector, we're putting our ideas out there. What are you guys doing? You're running denial and denial policies. You bury your head in the sand, you fool yourself. With that understanding, we can't solve problems in the agricultural sector. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0093par0251	Thank you, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0094par0252	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0095par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0093par0254	Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0095par0255	Sir, in his speech, Mr. Tüten, he said, "I'm a member of parliament."
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0096par0256	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0095par0257	Ramadan Kerim Özkan Bey has insulted me by saying that he can get me out of his pocket. I'd like to answer that, if I may.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0097par0258	Mr. President, before the pocket issue...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0098par0259	Mr. Özkan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0097par0260	I'll finish the matter.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0098par0261	I just asked you. You said: Mr. Group Vice President will speak.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0097par0262	Mr. President, my friend asked for it on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0098par0263	Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0099par0266	Mr. President, in his speech, he said: "Ramazan Kerim Özkan Bey -- meaning me -- takes the sword out of his pocket."
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0100par0267	Now you're talking...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0099par0268	That's a very wrong statement. Because Ramadan Kerim Özkan Bey is a dear brother, a friend of ours, a veterinarian. But I was a college professor, raised 2,000 vets, raised 2,000 paramedics, raised 2,000 labs, and raised 2,000 nurses, dear friends.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0101par0269	You didn't. The state that raised them, the state. Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0099par0270	Don't take someone like that out of their pocket, and I want you to know that we have too much scientific infrastructure to get out of anybody's pocket. My respects.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0102par0273	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0103par0274	Teacher, you can't raise it with false information.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0102par0275	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0104par0276	Mr. President, we have no problem celebrating that Mr. Kılıç is a professor. But he's a professor of politics, he's been a congressman for nine years, you haven't had nine months. Politically, he'll get you out of your pocket. Otherwise, I'm in no position to discuss your knowledge.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0102par0277	Mr. Slim, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0105par0278	Mr. President, on behalf of the group, Mr. Tünce...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0102par0279	Mr. Özkan, the matter is closed. Please, you're very welcome. When I asked you earlier, you didn't want to speak for yourself. Now back to the subject, please... [[Continue]] Osmaniye MP Durdu Mehmet Kastal... Here you go, Mr. Castal.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0310	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We don't know who takes who out of their pocket, but what we're talking about here has to be true first. Because people are looking at someone who's come into their pocket in the streets or farmers' homes, and we're... we've been mastering politics for nine years now, Mr. Slim, but before 2002, the agriculture ministers or other ministers were pushing barrels in our area, but now the Agricultural Ministry and agriculture authorities are being greeted with applause.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0107par0313	Now they're meeting with eggs. Eggs, eggs...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0314	Now, you need to know that for nine years we've been base deputies, we haven't left Ankara, plus, we're not professors, but we're in this. What is it? In Osmaniye, the peanut is $3,200, wheat is $600, corn is $600. What is it?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0108par0316	It stopped, how much is cotton, cotton?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0109par0317	How much is the diesel? Come to Mazota.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0318	After the peanut's 3,000 liras, it doesn't matter if the diesel's 5,000 liras.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0110par0320	Milk, milk...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0111par0321	Sing the cotton, cotton. Is there no cotton in your Kadirite?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0322	The agricultural sector has grown in six of the last seven years, becoming the engine sector of the economy and Turkey. In 2011, the agricultural sector grew 6.8 during the first six months. While the Turkish agricultural sector ranked 11th in 2002 in terms of agricultural economic size around the world, it has been ranked seven in the last eight years and has been ranked 1 in Europe. In 2002, agricultural interest rates of 59 per cent were reduced to zero in watering and animalism and to 5 per cent in other agricultural activities. Agricultural Loan could offer 300 million loans in 2002, but now the Agricultural Loan has been credited to 3.5 quadrillion. The recycling of loans was 40 per cent in 2002, while it has now risen to 90 per cent. Everyone knows that before 2002, people in Agriculture Loan were miserable, and the EC PARTY came to power, and the interest was reduced, and there was a certain arrangement, and the money dropped to one-third. Agricultural support, quality, health, efficiency and rural development have been reorganised. 52 new support applications have been initiated. The gas support and fertilizer support have been paid directly to our farmer. The strategically important oil sunflowers, soybeans, corn and olive oil have been given substantial premiums. Animalism got the support it deserved. In support, the share of animalism was raised from 4 per cent to 26 per cent in 2011. For the first time, small-sized livestock enterprises have been supported. The period of non-interest financing in livestock has been started, the loan rates have been zeroed out. Agricultural basin production and support model was created. It was developed to plan and increase production by protecting natural resources in agricultural basins, implementing an effective and rational support policy. Thirty agricultural basins have been identified in Turkey. For each basin, strategic supply deficits and competition-related products have been determined and special products have been established and maps based on agricultural basins have been created. Agricultural insurance practices were launched in 2006, the scope of agricultural insurance was expanded in 2011, and in addition to open-growing fruits, agriculture and dairy cattle, male beef were covered in insurance, and 2/3 of the policy price was covered by the state.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0112par0328	What percentage is that? Six percent are still insured.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0329	Now, that's for the insurance guy. He'll give you 50% if you get insurance.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0112par0330	Oh, yeah! How beautiful!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0331	Animal diseases have been fought more effectively. For the first time in our country, a region has been adopted by the Thracian region, the World Animal Health Organization and the European Union. The Agriculture Programme for Supporting Rural Development Investments, which provides industrial integration with 50 per cent grants, began in 2006. How? The sauce factory, the peanut factory, whatever you do, the government gives 50 percent of it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0113par0333	Is there no cotton in Kadir, if you love God? How much is the cotton?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0334	Snow is now in the east, and I hope to make cotton in Çukurova.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0113par0335	How much is the cotton? Why don't you just say that?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0106par0336	Economic investments such as the processing, packing, packing, storage and machine equipment were thus supported. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0114par0339	Thank you, Mr. Katsal. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0115par0344	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in 2012. I hereby salute your high council. Agriculture is a strategic, economic, social and cultural sector. The anxiety of self-sustainment in agricultural production has now been replaced by the world's production and marketing approach. As competitiveness and sustainability take the lead in the industry, global climate change, rising food prices, increasing population and the effectiveness of international organisations are fundamental dynamics that lead to the sector. With the EC PARTI, a process from everyday decisions to strategic planning in agriculture begins; it leads to agricultural potential production; it protects and improves agricultural resources; scientific and technological developments are important; the sustainable right policies for a productive agricultural sector; the establishment of rural development, the protection of biodiversity, agricultural environment and ecology, and significant distances in the value of agricultural products and social development. Agriculture is one of the major sectors in Turkey, which has grown in five years despite the global economic crisis, which meets the needs of our 74 million tourists, and is one of the major agricultural economies in the world, with more than 20 of the world's largest agricultural economies in production, is an industry in the world that can export $1.525 to $1.7 billion from $1.525 to $1.7 billion agricultural products to 184 countries. I'd like to talk about some of the work done during the AK PARTY. The sector's problems have been developed in our time to develop permanent and efficient policies, implementing agricultural benefits based on quality, health, efficiency and rural development. For the first time, our farmers were given diesel and chemical fertilizer support. It's strategically important and the oily seed premiums used as raw materials in the agricultural industry have been increased. Certified seeds, seedlings and saplings supports have been initiated. The maintenance and renovations of the orchards were supported. Animalism has increased its share of support. The agricultural basins have been moved to the production and support model. With TARSIM, the period of insurance has begun in agriculture. To protect plant and animal health, new models were developed and successful inoculation campaigns were made. Important distances have been made regarding food safety and control. Fifty percent of the equipment and machines were provided to support our farmers so that they could farm technologically. Agricultural development co-ops for production were supported by 37 types of projects from meat production to milk production to beekeeping to greenhousery. Businesses in the agricultural sector leading to structural problems have been focused on collecting land against the problem of scale smallness and fragmentity. From the field to the table, from the farm to the fork, recordings and monitoring efforts to obtain reliable food. Thousands of facilities supported as part of the programme for supporting rural development investments have been transformed into factories where tens of thousands of people work, which contribute substantially to national revenues, which carry out agriculture-industrial integration.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0116par0349	Come to tobacco, tobacco. Come to the Adıyaman tobacco.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0115par0350	Dear lawmakers, one of the world's most important economic organizations, OECD, says in 2011 when talking about the Turkish report, "Congratulations, Turkey, you're successful. You've made good decisions in agricultural practices, policies, support.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0117par0351	We import meat, we import animals!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0115par0352	The United Nations Food Agriculture Organization talks about serious progress and successes in its report on successful roads, agricultural production and food safety.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0118par0353	I'm sure it's an ad! It's a commercial, it's a commercial!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0115par0354	But unfortunately, I've seen opposition lawmakers, and they've told lies. The Lord says, dear friends, put the tip of your two fingers in your eye. Can you see anything from the world? No. Just because you can't see it doesn't mean there's no need, brother.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0119par0356	Just like the AKP!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0120par0357	Mr. Mehmet, look as you are or be as you appear.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0115par0358	Turkey continues to be a global actor in the sector with these studies and provided supports.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0120par0359	The farmer can't go to town!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0115par0360	Despite all these accomplishments, we're at the beginning of the road. Our goal is to mark growing agriculture on the growing Turkey. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you the best of the 2012 budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0121par0363	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Alderman Fikri Il... Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0122par0367	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the National Ministry of Education's 2012 budget. I hereby salute the High Council. At a time when the global crisis continues to affect the effects, especially Europe, where many developed countries are deeply influenced, reducing public investments, even stopping, freezing or reducing civil servants and pensions, increasing education fees, and therefore many major actions are being carried out in 2012. What is pleasing and flattering in such a world conjunctive is Turkey's positive separation from developed countries by continuing to grow, produce and employ. I am particularly pleased to be part of a government that has increased education budget by 14.8 per cent in this period, especially when European education budgets have been severely cut. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there's no doubt that our most important service area is education in the fulfillment of our strong public, strong Turkey. The AK PARTY, which has been working day and night since its mission to achieve this goal, has achieved significant success so far. The physical and technological infrastructure of education has been improved beyond compare to the past. To ensure the access of all individuals to education and the equality of opportunities in education, in other words, all measures have been taken to ensure that our country's small-income and poor people benefit from education in the broadest sense, all opportunities have been mobilized. Reading, understanding, understanding, interpretation, analyzing and synthesising, the curriculum has been renovated for the growth of individuals who have studied, understood, understood, understood, and evaluated. A new understanding has been implemented based on judgment, access to information, practice of what you have learned. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, quality in education is as important as quantity. Increased quality in education is particularly closely related to the competence and equipment of educational infrastructure, physical conditions, and educational actors. There's been a lot of work here to improve the quality of education that I can't count because of the lack of time, and a lot of steps have been taken. We have much work to do within the 2023 vision of our party to fulfill the ideal and ideal. At this point, I'd like to present to you our party's goals in terms of the Ministry of National Education: The use of the most advanced technologies of the age in education, the maximum use of electronics, As soon as possible, pre-school education is obligatory in eighty provinces, Graduation rates reach 100 per cent in primary school, 85 per cent in secondary school, Up to 65 per cent of vocational education in secondary education, The number of students per class for all counties is 30. The creation of disabled friends' educational environments, The construction of educational sites in which our young are happy, replicating traditional, local, and modern architecture. The grants, the housing, and the increased means of living without money, In order to allocate more public resources to our small-income and poor citizens, The international student success assessment is to ensure that our country is among the top ten most successful countries in the PISA results.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0123par0383	How many successes are there now?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0122par0384	I won't answer you today, Haydar. Mr. President, the most important indicator of commitment, sincerity, will and determination to all these goals is the share of the budget that has been earmarked for education during our ruling period. In 2012, as in nine years, he received the largest share of the budget. Total education investments are a record in the history of the republic, not just the AK PARTY, with $56.3 billion. Mr. President, it is very important today that Turkey, who has taken steps towards becoming the most undisputed global force in our region, knows at least the level of foreign language that our young people can communicate in order to gain the share of the world's trade and increase their efficiency. I would like to stress that foreign language education should be discussed in this context. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our 2012 budget to the best of our educational community, our country, and our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0124par0389	Thank you, Mr. Light. Amassian MP Avni Erdemir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Virtue.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0393	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of National Education, and I salute you all. As the EC PARTY ruling, we believe that education is the most important element of economic, cultural and human development, in short any kind of development. With that consciousness, we have put a great deal of emphasis on education policies for our country to develop in terms of human values as well as in political, scientific, technical and economic areas. We followed an educational policy that allowed qualified and equipped individuals to grow. In education, we have made significant structural changes to ensure the equality of opportunity and quality and innovations to strengthen physical infrastructure in education. No one, and no one, can say that education today is under worse conditions than 2002, that education infrastructure is worse than 2002, that it can never compare our day with Turkey, where we take over, to the distance recorded in the equal of opportunity in education. We moved our pre-school education rate to 43 per cent, from 90 per cent to 98 per cent in primary school, from 50 per cent to 70 per cent in secondary school. Despite the increase in schooling rates -- according to2002. We have made significant reductions in the number of students per teacher. The Free Book Project saved the AK PARTY from the ordeal of buying books for our parents. The day the schools opened, the AK PARTY government gave their books to our students on their desk.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0126par0396	Ask the parents.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0397	Yes, the EC PARTY introduced our pre-school and elementary-school chicks who couldn't go to school because of health problems.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0126par0398	You've condemned them to the classrooms.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0399	The project for students who need special training to move to schools for free is a project by the EC PARTY governments. In particular, the project for free transport of our students in secondary school to encourage our girls to attend secondary school is an EC PARTY ruling project.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0126par0400	There was one before you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0401	In order to encourage education, the AK PARTY Power provided conditional cash benefits. A girl who continues to attend secondary school today deposits $55 a month into the mother's account by the AK PARTI governments.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0127par0402	So many, so many.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0403	If the secondary school scholarship rose to $117 per student in 2002, it was achieved by the AK PARTI authorities and governments. If daily meals and bed prices for boarding students have increased to $1.42 per student in 2002 and have increased to $7.00 today, the AK PARTI is behind them.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0128par0404	You're bragging about $7, shame on you!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0405	The education costs of those who are deemed eligible to continue education and rehabilitation centres from our disabled chicks -- which is $475 per month today -- are covered by the state, behind which is the AK PARTI Authority. Dear lawmakers, in short, during our nine-year period of power, there have been significant increases in schooling, gender inequality has been overcome in primary school, major development in preschool, the effects of regional differences in access to education have been reduced, Turkey has spent more money on education and achieved good results. Today, more than 169 thousand of the 473,000 classrooms used in national education -- more than one third of the classrooms used -- were done during the AK PARTY rule. Today, 301,000 of the 662 thousand staffed teachers were appointed to our power during the EC PARTY rule.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0129par0407	You shouldn't have taken it!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0408	Hopefully, by the end of 2012, half of our staff teachers will be appointed during the AK PARTY Administration period. Do we think all this is enough? Of course we don't think it's enough because the target is 2023. Then we'll have to work hard. Our teachers, our children, our young people deserve more attention and more investment. We are aware of the problems of our devoted teachers.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0130par0410	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0125par0411	I hope, as they guide us through the tribulations so far, I say we will overcome the problems we face with them, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0130par0413	Düzce MP Osman Çakır. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0131par0416	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the National Ministry of Education 2012. Praise be to God, this nation has given us the opportunity to address our people from this stand, and God has blessed us. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0132par0417	Good luck with that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0133par0418	Godspeed.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0131par0419	Yeah, we're rookies in politics, we're just getting started. God bless you. Nowadays, people are looking for information, but no one is looking for wisdom. Wisdom is actually the loss of the believer, and it's an entity that collects human knowledge, it can use tools, and people have created institutions, they've studied what can be learned within these institutions, they've set rules on who can teach them, and they've made decisions on who to pass these things on to, but they've forgotten one thing, human truth and everyone has tried to shape people according to their own philosophy of life. However, at a certain point of human rights, education and education, and the state and institutions of which humanity had developed, at which point each individual of these institutions had to maintain these rights, and at this point, at the point of education, he had to consider his rights. From 32 to 50, there have been some prohibitions in this country, during the 28th of February, there have been some difficulties in this country, thank God we're getting through them slowly, we're gradually over them because our nation is a different nation. When you're driving on the road, you see some of the drivers across the street, they warn you, they say, "Stop moving, there's a traffic cop ahead. It's a feature of our nation, you have to understand that, you have to understand that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0134par0421	In what way?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0131par0422	We need to understand the characteristics of this nation and give it an education in terms of the values that this nation has. Now, good things have been done in the past few months, multiple numbers have been removed, 12-year-old practice has been removed from teaching the Koran. These are the areas where this nation has prayed, shed tears, and shed tears for thirteen years, and our people, and our children. Man may be a Christian, he may be a Jew, he may have a different faith, he may not have any faith, but at the point of education from Muslim children and Muslim people in this country, someone has to take his hand away, for peace of the country, for peace, for peace of the country, that's what it takes. The subject of primary language education is being brought up. 14 different languages are spoken in a straight language, 14 different languages. Saidi Kurdi said, "How well did he say in Arabic?" He said, "It's Turkish, it's Turkish, it's Kurdish." You have to keep this country's national values. The official language of this country is Turkish...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0135par0425	▪ Talking is not enough; education is essential in the native language.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0131par0426	...the language of education is Turkish, and in this framework, hopefully, there will be great work. Look at the school books, all of a sudden, maybe pre-school to the end of high school, for God's sake, look at the number of words. I don't want to go into the fields at the university's reading point, but it's one of the things that really needs to be considered is that a language with the word at the 120 thousandth point of Turkish has been drawn to 3,000s, 3500. A lot has been said in this country at the point of teachers' rights. At the point of unregistered teachers, how to appoint teachers, under what circumstances, under what conditions. Believe me, I've read all the budget talks since the '90s, and I'm not exaggerating, but I've read all the interviews of the Ministry of National Education, and there's been a study in '91. Strangely enough, in the 91st study, teachers' problems were focused on. It's about the problems...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0136par0428	That's done every year.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0131par0429	Yeah, well, it's not that different from the issues that were detected 20 years ago. It's already stable, it's not possible, but it's unfair to abuse it because there are 400,000 teachers and to give these children such hopes. There are agricultural engineers in this country...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0137par0431	Thank you, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0131par0432	There are lawyers in this country, a lot of grown-ups.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0138par0433	But, brother, in the last nine years, it's been saved up because of your wrong college. Why don't you say that?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0131par0434	Please don't play with these children's hopes. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0139par0437	Thank you. Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0140par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputies are where university, science, thought, art and aesthetics are produced and taught. Therefore, freedom and autonomy are especially essential to universities. History shows that these values can only be found in free environments. We also know that science and thought are often blocked, corrupted, and sacrificed by dominant, religious, political, and social structures. Mr. President, when we founded the republic, we had only one university turned from Istanbul Darulfun, Istanbul University. Interestingly, it is the truest Islamic science in life. Despite the promise of the CHP, during the 27-year period of power, it was able to establish a single university in the afterlife, Ankara University, 1946. In nine years, however, we established 89 universities as an AK PARTY, raising 76 to 165.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0141par0444	They're all signs, signs! They just have names, nothing else!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0140par0445	As an academic, I'm saying that this is the crazy project. It's a bigger project than linking Marmara to the Black Sea, because really, it's the work of the black lovers to build a university and make it work, to keep it alive, to keep it alive. We didn't get enough of it, we got our universities to their true identities, because our universities, just like our democracy, have been through a lot of tragedy in the past. The first tragedy, if you remember, in 1932, Dr. Reþit Galip, the deputy of the Maarif, himself, did not stand behind the political power of the university, in his own words. On the basis of the reform, 90° of 152 professors were expelled. However, the massacre later became a tradition that degenerates knowledge, dishonors it. We saw the 1402s, the 120s, and the recent humiliations on February 28th. Remember, not in front of science, faith, right, law, honor; but in the face of guns, epaulets and postals, they put on their black robes, deans, professors, and the misery of walking behind their beatings. Tens of thousands of girls at the university gates were the reality of yesterday's more modern Turkey -- primitive and barbaric treatment of our children, persuasion rooms, inspections, investigations, taggings, exports. This violence that has reached the dimensions of the inquisitors has left a mark on our memories that has never been erased. Today, praise be to God, these kinds of landscapes are now a historical headshot that will blacken the faces of their actors until the end of time. On the other hand, we have reopened hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of students who, in any way in the past years have been cut off from the university, because we were worthy to persecute and forgive someone. Fortunately, the college teacher is no longer forced to tag his student in his own class. Happily, no more of our students will be forced to give up their faith or school. Happily, we now have a test system that brings equal points to equal answer. My dear friends, you know Hamdullah Suphi, our first Deputy Maarif. He says: I asked a villager from Ankara who was carrying coal to my house, and I said, "Sir, do you like the republic, Ankara, to be the capital?" Because whatever we put on the donkey's back, he comes to Ankara to pay for it, his bush and his whip. No, I didn't mean to say that, are you satisfied with the republic? I said, "Sir, they told us to die during Abdulhamid, we died, we gave it to them." The law has passed, and Idtihat Terakki has come to power, and they have said to us, "Die," and they said, "Give us, we are dead." And you came after him, and you said to us, "Die," and we said, "Die," and we gave you. Now, I'm waiting for the end of my life, and I wonder what day you're going to tell us to buy it. Here, the AK PARTY is the party of what he calls the citizens, Al. It's the power of these times. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now it's up to us as politicians to carry out the constitutional arrangement that will bring our universities into an environment that is completely free and democratic in a climate that produces what is best for the human and the universe. Thank you. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0142par0454	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0143par0455	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0142par0456	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0143par0457	The Congressman is back in the early years of the republic, and in those years...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0144par0458	Where do we go from here? The Republic is our gain, not yours; it is the gain of all of us, Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0142par0459	Yes, I'm listening.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0143par0460	See, that kind of ignorance is not clear. When this country arrived in the 1920s, it lost 300,000 trained people in the War of Salvation and other wars. When the Republic was founded, it was a problem, let alone opening a university, even opening a school. But if the founders of this republic have established a university in Ankara, a university reform, a university in Istanbul, even though 300,000 trained people have lost their lives on the battlefields, they should pray for it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0145par0461	You must have confused the Republic with the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0143par0462	They should be grateful. That kind of ingratitude doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0146par0463	Mr. Tütin, you've been briefed.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0147par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0146par0465	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0147par0466	Mr. President, there is no way to understand that the Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Muharrem Encel, is going to stand up behind each of our speakers and reduce the speech to questioning the republic.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0148par0467	You're questioning, I'm answering.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0147par0468	I return to him the words of ignorance and ingratitude. And to be honest, I'd like to let him know that I didn't.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0149par0470	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0148par0471	Take the ingrates!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0149par0472	Malatya MP Mustafa Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0150par0475	Mr. President, I've made a pledge on behalf of the EC Party Group on behalf of the VP budget. Before I begin, I salute the High Council. Dear friends, based on Article 52 of Law No. 1750, this institution was founded on November 19, 1974 as the Inter-United Student Selection and Placement Centre. The entrance exams to universities and universities were then conducted by one centre. In 1981 it was bound by Law 2547 to the NGO. I also wish you the best of luck in your duties today to our new head of staff. In addition, when we look at the exams he took, the SNSM, which conducted the exams of 11 different institutions every year, took 5,241,069 candidates for the 40 exams in 2011. In the 18th,316 building, 258,179 halls, 849,157 exam workers were assigned. With the measures taken, the OSD has now become a safer institution than ever. The institution's tenacious work continues to become a respected institution based on Turkey. It has important projects on its way to the dignity that society misses. Before the AK Party rulings, community engineering was done by coefficients. The originality of which they came, not to reason, intelligence, courage, hard work, not to finish a four-year license, but to whom they came, depending on which school and which school they graduated from, has been consolidated by the decision taken by the SEC last week, and that is wrong. Given the equality of opportunity, based on intelligence, intelligence, and knowledge, everyone has been given the highest level of future in this society. Dear friends, IN the last year, the OSS has been more controversial than ever. The 2010 KPSS copying turned out to be not the healthy institution that we all rely on. And good luck to our esteemed President, Mr. Ali Demir, and his team, who has just been appointed president after the copy scandal. We began to learn some truths that our society has never known. In fact, I don't want to go into that because of the tightness of time. Unfortunately, what we thought was protected as a space base was an inner pain. As we look at the work done at the OSD, which brought up serious measures in this framework: The different question for each island is that it activates the booklet application and makes it impossible to cheat. By eradicating security weaknesses in all SNS tests, no opportunity is given to those who want to cheat by taking a series of security measures. After the exam, the candidates who took the exam published their response papers online to each person to calculate their own scores. The OSCE is to re-organise the right to test everyone within the framework of equality, fairness and rights and the right to take test results, to redesign the closed period application, to create question booklets during closed periods, to create different question booklets for each candidate in an environment where there is no communication with the outside world, to protect the security and privacy of the test document. OSI has stopped computing, computing, and optical evaluation units from communicating with the outside world. The entrances are under control. Even employees are forbidden to go in there on their cell phones. All kinds of work is being recorded, and employees can only access their own jobs and information. Dear friends, we know that the OSCE has created a pool of questions in such secure environments and has conducted the examinations, collected questions from a large number of authors, and employed enough scientific auditors, protecting questions to be asked in the exams. BEFORE the exam, the OSCE monitors the hiding places in the provinces immediately, as well as the examinations conducted in some exam halls with the camera uninterrupted. Also, the S.E.P.D. has been pasted photos of candidates on the student's answers paper, which means they've been prevented from taking the exam in place of someone else. All these studies have helped our young ones, who are our future, take exams. But we didn't find it surprising that in previous processes, those who work at this institution and are also the founders of a private home or partners, those who have been given a runt due to their security weakness, react to all these measures, because the tests are extremely important to them.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0151par0487	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0150par0488	...why it has become an important attraction for those who seek unfair gains from these trials.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0151par0489	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0150par0490	As a result, it is an unbiased, undisputed, rights and justice established among all candidates in our rapidly developing and young country, with a high population.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0151par0491	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0150par0492	I wish the 2012 budget would be a blessing, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0151par0494	Thank you. İstanbul MP Muhammad Bilal Macit. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Macit.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0152par0498	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, hello, all. I have a pledge on behalf of my party group for the 2012 college budget. I'd like to start with an example of my speech. Earlier in the 19th century, France was doing well in both military and military areas, while also doing education reform. At this time, the armies of France are defeating the Kingdom of Prussia and occupying the lands of the Kingdom of Prussia. The Kingdom of Prussia is not only defeated but also condemned to pay a heavy compensation, but the Kingdom of Prussia is unable to pay the compensation. In order to receive compensation from France, the metal or silver forks, knives, spoons, which can be cashed in the Prussia people's homes, would all be returned to them. Now, this is an extremely humiliating, humiliating, humiliating situation for the Prussian people. And what's done after that is much more interesting. In similar examples in history, perhaps even today, countries would first go to reform in the army to overcome this situation, the powerful army, the mighty Prussia. But the state of Prussia has concluded that reforms in the post-depth education system are inevitable. If there is no totalitarian Germany like North Korea in the middle of Europe today, I think there's a great deal in that conclusion, meaning strong education, a strong country. He's assigning Humboldt to reform the Prussian education system, and Humboldt has a very good saying: I always think that the way we meet events in life affects our happiness and our unhappiness as much as it does these events. Here's where we lie because I think that's how we deal with things and how we leave other political parties when we evaluate the concepts. It's the same for colleges. In Turkey, universities have been remembered for years with bans, single-species, community engineering and obedience to authority. There were so - called academics walking under the banner of the army, rejoicing in the April 27th account and expressing their support for it. It's not campus, it's barracks. It's dress-up, hair-beard checks. Primitive headscarf bans have been imposed, and even more primitive chamber of persuasion has been established. Everyone is equal, but some are evener. I think the coefficient nonsense has been applied. Such individuals as the authoritarian regimes have been tried to raise without question, without criticism, and without problems, as a result. But college is about being able to raise individuals who can think on their own, to study freely, to be very vocal and colorful. All opinions, ideology and approach styles can be freely discussed, ideas can be freely compared, not a vocational course, but to find answers to mankind's questions and problems, and more importantly, college begins with learning, but without freedoms, that doesn't make any sense either. At the same time, the university is the most important tool for social mobileisation, cross-class transition in Turkey. This social movement also means that we can get rid of the fear that there will be bogeymen in every dark corner and the fear that we can see each other as a threat. A very controlled inter-class transition, a small but happy minority, Republican elites who imagined a kind of caste system, so they didn't open much colleges, they opposed new universities with various excuses, and they defended the bans that prevented them from entering universities. When the parties with the people behind them began to come to power, the universities began to open one by one, and during the AK PARTY this peaked. They said these new universities were the colleges of Tabela, they owned universities of cities, they had huge campuses, they gave scholarships, even they went to a fair fair to attract good students. So, to make up the difference between this philosophy and the wealth of knowledge and the poor of knowledge, we, the EC PARTY, raised the number of universities in 2002 -- 53 states, 23 foundations -- to 165 degrees in 2011, 103 states and 62 foundations. In 2012, we raised the university's total funding to 12.7 billion Turkish liras. Advanced countries contribute to the world with businessmen, professionals, literaryists, thinkers. So, I think accepting this budget is giving colleges the opportunity to grow these human resources. Let's vote for this budget, because what we do and what we don't do will shape our future. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0153par0509	Thank you, Mr. Macit. Zonguldak MP Ercan Candan. Here you go, Mr. Candan.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0154par0513	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the university budget under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. On this occasion, I salute you all. In terms of the structure and function of universities, they point to the level of development of countries, which aims to develop the ability to obtain accurate information and to use that information. It is our university's most basic duty to produce, teach, and spread that knowledge throughout the age of knowledge. Congressmans, there have been significant developments in the physical infrastructure and scientific work of our universities since we came to power in 2002. In 2002, there were 76 universities, including 53 of them state and 23 of them foundation colleges; in 2011, a total of 165 universities were reached in 2011, including 103 of them state and 62 of the foundation. Furthermore, in Turkey, universities have been extended to all provinces. The level of higher education has been increased by 65.5 per cent. In 2002, the higher education budget was raised to around 2.5 billion in 2011, while in 2011 it was raised to around 11.5 billion. The 2012 budget was estimated to be 12 billion, 743 million, 603,000 liras, with an increase of around 410 per cent compared to 2002. University budgets consist of about 56 per cent of the central management budget, 33 per cent of the return capital, and 11 per cent of the private income. So we observe that the universities have a low capacity to create their own resources. That's why we have to increase the university-special sector relationship. There are actually three criteria for the evaluation of universities. Most important of these criteria are RD studies and patents and international publications produced from them. If you look at local patent applications and registrations at university, it's very important, very interesting -- there's data here in 2003 -- there's six, there's only six applications and there's two registrations. In 2010, 113 applications and 29 registrations were issued. Although the increase between 2003 and 2010 has struck us, it's not really enough data. According to international publications of our universities, the number rose to 27.364 in 2010, with 8,404 broadcasts in 2002. These figures show that our universities have valuable contributions to international scientific publications. So, how did you get these? In 2002, the university's RD budget was only around 86 million, while in 2011, it reached 547 million. So behind these publications and the increase in Rage, there is actually serious support. This rate of increase is 531 percent. The 2012 budget will raise 576 per cent with 586 million. Is that enough? No. We want to see more colleges at the first 500 universities in the world. Was there such a thing before 2002? No. What's behind this? Of course, our government has its supports.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0155par0525	You found the fire, the compass, the wheel...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0154par0526	Members of the Council of Ministers are members of the European Colleges Association, almost all of our universities. Our presidents also serve on the top boards of central European academic institutions. In fact, we have sent 40,000 students to Europe, from 2004 until this time, from six years up to eight times the number of students, the most important project the European Union has ever implemented. In addition, 9,000 were sent to Europe, including 9,000 of our staff and university staff. In 2012, 5,000 civil servants and 9,000 faculty staff were allowed to appoint to provide for our universities' personnel needs. Congressmans, even though there have been major advances in physics and education in our universities during the time of our rule, we are not completely over the problems of our universities. We know the solutions to these things, and the AK PARTY will figure it out again, you know that. I would like to thank all those who have worked so hard to prepare the 2012 budget, which is an important step in achieving our great goals, and wish the 2012 budget to be good for our country and our nation, and pay our respects to our great Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0156par0532	Thank you, Mr. Candan. On behalf of the person, in favor of Muğla MP Yüksel Özden. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Özden.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0157par0536	Mr. President, valued members, I have made a personal pledge in the 2012 budget bill talks. I hereby salute your high council. I especially want to go over a few points on college. Our friends who just spoke also pointed out. As we've always stressed, there's a point we've come to, and we have goals we want to achieve. At the point where we're here today, I'm not going to repeat the numbers about the number of students and the increase, but I want to stress that today we've reached the point where the number of students who have graduated from high school will be able to get new students to college. The point is, you know, over the years, there'd be 1.5 million, 1.7 million students on the college exam, 300,000, 400,000, 200,000. This time, the number of students taking the university exam this year is 1,750, the number of students who have just graduated from high school is about 750, and the number of residents is 750. So the savings that have been building up over the years are going to start to wane rapidly from this year on, because...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0158par0538	Hodja, tell me what percentage of graduates get jobs.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0157par0539	...we're now able to put students in colleges as much as the number of graduates. Let's...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0158par0541	How many graduates in your time were getting jobs, now tell me how many people are getting jobs.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0157par0542	It finds hundreds of thousands of people. Look, on the other hand, it's said, "Where's Kalite?" Let's answer that too.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0158par0544	That's not your problem, we're not telling you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0157par0545	Look, we know about the times in this country when 10 percent went to college. 10-15 per cent is the quality of students in which only an elite group goes to college, and in the case of that university and 60 per cent of the situation at that university, of course, there will be a difference, and the number we come to today is 58 per cent.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0158par0546	You don't have the quality of concern.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0159par0547	There was also a time when the rate of reading and writing was 10%.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0157par0548	It's the same quality, look, if it's quality, let's just listen where we sit, and I'll talk, and you'll talk.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0158par0549	But I must speak to the right, Hajji.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0157par0550	Today, we're looking at the goal of universityization in developed countries because society needs to reach 50 percent of the 10-15 percent of the previous years, 60, 80, the rate of universityization. A few in the developed countries predict that 60 per cent of the total population in the United States for 2020 will be college graduates. So in 2012, despite these numbers, what's the rate in Turkey? It's 6.2 percent. For that, we need to continue to increase the number of colleges and programs quickly. It's said that you only express it by numbers, by numbers. In this country, we've made huge innovations, changes in order to raise quality scientists and increase the number of publications that our friend just said. Look, in 2008, we transferred 25 per cent of the ESYM's budget surplus to the NGO, and we sent 2,380 academics abroad from that time, at 42 million costs. We have raised 1,500 people for the foreign language in and abroad, at the cost of 15 million dollars, and with the Farabi Programme, we continue to raise students and professors in the country, but there is much more to do. Yeah, I agree, it's time we went beyond the numbers. The subject of the classroom that has been thought to be insurmountable has been dealt with greatly. The computer that's thought to be unreachable is everywhere, the Internet is all over the place. So when we say education system after that, I believe that if we want our students to play what role in Turkey's vision of the future of 2023 -- which is beyond the words "students" and "computer" and "book" -- we need to raise suitable people for it. With our history, with our language, with our values, and with the experiences we've had so far, we must quickly establish a human power-building policy. We need to do this for such a visionary study and to prevent the waste of resources in our own country. I wish to congratulate you once again on all my friends who have worked on the budget's preparation, that this budget brings blessings to our country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0160par0557	Thank you, Mr. Özden. On behalf of the government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Here you go, Mr. Eker. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes. Mr. President, the esteemed members of the High Assembly of the 2012 Food, Agriculture and Animal Ministry budget, I salute you with my blessing. Mr. President, valued lawmakers used to deal with the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, with all the issues of the agricultural sector, not with a law, but with a little populism. If not, Turkey would not have obtained an agricultural law in the 80th year of the republic's founding. In the eighty-third year of the republic, Turkey released the Law of Agriculture in 2006, this Parliament came out, and in the period of our government, we discussed the matter very differently than those before us, and looked at it as a strategic sector, and look what we did: First, we did a sectoral depth analysis, kept the mirror to ourselves. What is the agricultural sector in Turkey? We've done this in total transparency, with close to 50,000 talks, with all of the sector's shareholders, the public side, the private sector, the farmer side, the producer side, about 50,000 of the largest survey ever conducted in agriculture, and we've done a depth analysis study. After that, we've prepared a transformation and transformation program. One part of this transformation and transformation program was the adoption of new laws. We've passed 14 agricultural laws on agriculture. One of them is the Agricultural Law. We've activated the support. In the past, it was the only support that was given by the Council of Ministers in some other way, in some way, in the year of the election, when there was no election, and we put them in a certain frame and then we did projects, and we did. You know what happened with this? In fact, in Turkey, we have made an illegal product of the agricultural sector, as my friends have just pointed out, from the 11th ranking in the world to the 7th place in the 11th row, with $23 billion in revenues. (AK PARTY applause) The agricultural area is the same, there are no increases in the number of working people, but in Turkey, we raised the agricultural sector's revenue from $23 billion to $62 billion. We measure it two ways: one, our nation measures it. When does it measure? He's measuring it in the election. When was the last time he measured it? June 12, 2011. We have faced our nation with promises, not with extreme promises, but with realistic promises, projects, as others have done. We've talked about what we've done, we've said what we're going to do, and one of the two people who voted for our nation has said that they support these policies by voting for us; that's one. (AK PARTY) This is the most important edifice inside that shows the source of the support that is essential to us, which is actually the basis for our actions. That's the measure; that's the one. But not just with this. Let's see what the world says.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0161par0567	Did you say you were going to import antgus before the election? Look, this is the OECD report, 2011. In 2011, the OECD filed a report on the Turkish agricultural sector. It's not just about Turkey, it's about the United States and the European Union, and what does it say here? It says here that Turkey has made great progress in the last decade and has come to the seventh place in the world in terms of the size of agricultural product. (OECD says this, published this year, I recommend you, open it, look, read it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0162par0569	They call you the Minister of Imports, Minister of Imports. It's not importing. Here, he says exports are increasing, on the contrary, he's got graphics, here, you'll see, you'll see. There's graphics, imports, export graphics here. I'll be with them in a little while. Two: This, my dear friends, is the report of the United Nations Food Agriculture Organization FAO. Look, I brought the original here -- especially in Turkish -- the roads leading to success. The success story of Turkey was published here, my friends. Turkey's success story in agriculture was prepared in this report. You've broken import records, imports. Now, I'll tell you, I'll be there. You've broken import records. Now, dear friends, we've brought all of this -- on international scale and on national scale -- so far we've brought this in Turkey. Now, our friends in their talks say that you're always talking about 2002, sir, you're always talking about 2002. (Dear friends, we're talking about 2002 -- a date, a chronology -- at that time, on 18 November 2002, the EC PARTI government took over. So since we started that year, we're based on 2002, but if you want, let's take this to 2001.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0163par0577	Are you starting the Republic from 2002, Mr. Secretary? Look, if you want to compare it to 2001, let's compare it to 2000. Then it's worse. Look, I'll tell you this: In 2000, Turkey supported its farmer with $344 million. 344 million in 2000, that's all. The support given to all farmers in Turkey is 344 million. Do you know how long 2001 was? 590 million. We're starting from 2002, we're calling it 2002.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0164par0579	So, how much did the national income go up? We raised that national income, you didn't raise it, we raised it. I see, but how much did you give the farmer? Now, 1 billion 868 million in 2002. I'm actually doing the opposition a favor by starting at 2002. Because I'm based on a high scale from a high place, and I'm comparing it to 2000, 2001, and it's going to be a hell of a lot worse.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0165par0583	I think you'd better start at 1,800, it'll be more efficient. But let me tell you something, while we're talking about this agriculture, we need to know about the account, the book, and the government's documents. Now, look, here, I have a letter. There are three names and signatures of the government's minister who said that agricultural support had been removed in 2001 -- this is the original copy of the letter: Mr. Kemal Dervis, Mr. Hüsni Yusuf Gökalp, Mr. Ahmet Kenurıkulu; Minister of Industry and Trade; Minister of Foods, Agriculture and Petting; and Minister of Economics of that day. They say in 2001, they wrote Mister James Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank. Here's the Turkish and here's the English. It says here which supports were removed, which supports were scheduled to be removed, fertilizer support, other loans, interest benefits, all of that. I mean, when we got here...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0166par0585	Look, you give support to the landowners, you don't give it to the manufacturer. Dear friends, when we arrive... You give it to the landowners, you don't give it to the manufacturer. Be patient, be patient.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0167par0589	If the support has been lifted, how has it increased?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0168par0590	Congressmans, please listen, calm down. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly): Chemical fertilizer support was removed at 1/1/2002. The agricultural struggle and the vet's medical support were removed at 1/1/2002.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0169par0592	Look, our Adıyaman Congressman friend is here. He's taking Aghas, the manufacturers can't get them there. Look, our friend is here, he knows. Market price support and base price applications for such products as candy beets, tobacco, nuts, cotton were removed in 2001.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0170par0594	He doesn't know the account, he doesn't know the book. Electrical support for agriculture, cheap use of electricity, was removed in 2002. In 2002, the practice of seeding aid and delaying loans for farmers suffering from natural disasters was lifted. In agriculture, interest subsidies were removed, and agricultural loans were left for high interest, such as commercial loans. Now, right now, we have friends who worked as bureaucrats that day, who became congressmen today, in this room. Look, there's the former General Manager of Agriculture Loan. The interest margin was 69%. The farm loan's interest was 69%, and the agricultural bank's was 59 per cent. All this has been removed from our side.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0171par0596	And so quickly, the debts were paid. Now there's talk of parities. On that day, sir, it was bought with this product, and it was bought with this product. You do it all in parite, you tell them it's good for you, you hide what's not good for you. This, like this. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now I'll tell you. Look, I have two lists, and I can read them all to you, but I'm not gonna waste all my time here, so I'm sorry. I'm just going to give you two examples. The farmer sold 65 tons of wheat in 2002, buying one tractor. I'll tell you the brand of the tractor: New Holland TT50.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0172par0600	It's a commercial. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY CAN TAKE HIM. He's taking the same tractor as 51 tons of wheat in 2011, dear friends. Now, does that mean that the farmer's income, the wheat producer's income, has gone up, has it? I'll leave it to you and our nation.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0173par0602	Compared to fertilizer, fertilizer. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMEDI EKER (Secondly): Egypt; 2002...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0172par0604	The tractor's cheap, the tractor. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Go on, that's fine! Why did it get cheap? Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you, thank you very much. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) You said it for me. In 2002, 76 tonnes of corn were sold, 1 tractor was bought, 50 tonnes of corn sold in 2011, 1 tractor was bought.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0174par0607	Compared to fertilizer, fertilizer. That's what I'm going to tell you in this chapter. Believe me, it's about milk and other products.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0175par0609	Come to Mazota, mazota. Dear friends, during our government, we have initiated fifty-two new support practices based on quality, health, efficiency and rural development. So far, we've paid the Turkish farmer -- I'm telling cash -- the junkie, 43 billion dollars in cash, 133 million liras. So old money, 43 quadrillion friends, money in the farmer's pocket. Dear friends, we started an app in 2009, and we said: "Now we're explaining it at Christmas." And we're paying the farmer for a significant portion of the support, as well as what's possible, before we can implement it. In 2009, most of the support was paid in the first six months of the year. My dear friends, what support have we just started? Look, I just told you what was removed, and now I'm going to tell you what we started: we started the diesel support for the first time in 2003. We started chemical fertilizer support in 2005, we didn't.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0176par0613	Minister, how many pounds of wheat does the farmer have to sell to buy a liter of diesel right now? For the first time in 2005, we started the certified seed use. We started the support for certified seedling use in 2005. In 2002, 2 kilograms of wheat and 1 litre of diesel were purchased at 8 kilos today. Tell that to the honest public to find out. For the first time in 2006, we started watering down interest-free loans and grant support. We started the machine equipment for the first time in 2007, with 50% of the farmer's grant. We've reduced loan practice to 5 percent of all agricultural interest rates, and we've started zero interest and zero interest interest in livestock and drop irrigation investments. And my dear friends, our whole nation knows that. The return rate... now look, how much credit did we get? 529 million, total agricultural loans used by all farmers in 2002, 529 million. 21.9 billion in 2011, billion, 42...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0177par0620	You told the farmers to take their mother, and you told them to feed the black earth!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0176par0621	You fixed the farmer's condition. Good for you. Good for you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0178par0622	If the citizen is in good condition, why would he use a loan? Now, in your time his name is a loan, and why is he in our time in debt? Why are you bragging about him? Why is the farmer using credit, Mr. Secretary? My dear brothers and sisters, in your time, were able to get 38 percent of the loan the Bank of Agriculture gave back, and the original farmer was in bad shape. Thirty-eight percent, 100 lira on the farmer's loan, and he was able to return 38 of it, no payable power. 38... 62 lira in the air.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0179par0626	Now he's flippin', he's flippin'! Now 98.8% are coming back on farm loans from the Agriculture Bank. So the farmer gets a loan of $21 billion, pays back 98.8 per cent of it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0180par0628	The farmer buys the new tractor, sells it! This shows where his power reaches. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, we started the agricultural insurance practice, first in the history of the Republic. The talk began in the 1930s, and we started it on 1 June 2006. And so far, my dear brothers and sisters, 539 million dollars of damage has been paid as of this month. Who? It's the money the insurance pays for the damage to the farmer we paid for 50% of the insurance premium.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0181par0632	What percentage of them are insured? Six percent of them are insured. Now, my dear brothers, our, of course, it's always said: "Sir, this is how agricultural support works in Turkey, this is how it is." Dear friends, look, the OECD says that in OECD countries, 0.85 per cent of average national income is paid as support, 3.15 per cent in Turkey, not just agricultural support in the farmer's pocket. The Law is mentioned, the Law is here, the Law is here. This is exactly what the Law says: "The source from the budget. " Now, I'll tell you, dear friends, mission damage is support for the farmer, isn't it? Isn't the damage caused by the land crop office support for the farmer because of the purchase? Isn't credit interest subsidies supporting the farmer? Well, then the banks had special mission damage. Special mission damage happens all the time. Why don't we count these? We'll count them. What happens when you count these? This year, 10 billion 763 million liras are the government's budget for Turkish farmers and Turkish agriculture.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0182par0638	You shouldn't have taken the nut, Mr. Secretary. What was he doing with a nut if you loved the God of TMO? I paid 700-plus million lira to the nut shop. Well, here, okay, that's why you're doing mission damage. My dear friends, something has now been said about the number of animals. Let me just say, folks, that's what we're talking about here, unfortunately, with our agriculture, so we're talking about a lot of things that aren't very careful with numbers. The animal count in Turkey was held in 1984, friends, 1984. Now, those of you who say "1980" specifically say that Turkey does not have an official animal census at that time. There's no animal count on that date, and you're saying the number of that date. When is this? Thirty-two years ago. You're saying the number 32 years ago, as if he didn't have the AK PARTY in his power in twenty-two years past 32 years, which is not the responsibility of the AK PARTY. We'll tell you where we took it from, where we brought it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0183par0642	If you don't like it, you raise it, you count it again, you count again! Dear friends, my dear brothers, during my administration, the number of animals in Turkey increased by 1.5 million in cattle, cattle, cattle. But the most important thing is that quality has increased, efficiency has increased. Eight million tons of milk were taken from the same animal, and now 13.5 million tons of milk were taken from it. The animal's efficiency and quality have increased. That's how we're going to talk about this when we evaluate the number of animals. That's why she's got powdered milk for him! That's why the meat goes in, the animal goes in!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0184par0645	Tell me the number of imported animals, Mr. Secretary. Say it, say it! There are now 11.5 million cattle. When the first census took place in 1984, Turkey's cattle presence was 12.4 million, not 16 million. That's what you think! There are 12.4 million cattle on that day, and dear friends, 95 percent of that is low-profit races. Today, the percentage of high-profit culture races is 40 percent. So we're going to do the math.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0185par0649	Is that enough, 40 percent? It's got to be 60-70 percent. My dear friends, the number of animals, and the number of animals, have increased in size and size. I'll tell you that in particular. Little by little... you say yourself that 50 percent has fallen. They're saying one more thing, you've imported animals, they're saying. Dear friends, now look, I'll give you a number. In 1925, Turkey imported its first animal import. 25, look.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0186par0653	Let go of 25, let go of 25!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0185par0654	Leave 25, come to 2010-11. Listen... listen... now... look... you're telling me my period and it's like for the first time... you're misdirecting your president here, and you're giving him false information. That's not true either.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0186par0656	Pass them! You always say the same thing. In 1935 the number of butchered animals imported from 1986 to 1996 was 1,432,000. Butchering animal... only 86-96...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0187par0658	But no sacrifice was imported, Mr. Secretary, no sacrifice imported. But you did it! Look, 267 thousand breeding animals were imported in the government before us. In that period, the Social Democratic People's Party was in power between 91 and 95, and these were the figures of that period. Now, my dear friends, look, I mean, it's not wrong. If the country needs it, if the country grows, needs breeding, needs industry, demand increases, and the raw material in your country isn't enough, you import it. There's no shame in that, and there's nothing wrong with that. Now, a friend of ours said: "Sir, the Netherlands is this small in Turkey, it produces as much as that of Turkey." See, my dear friends, the non-billion dollars of Dutch agriculture is $62 billion, ours is $62 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0188par0662	Come to diesel prices, come to bait prices, come to fertilizer prices, Mr. Secretary! Now, do you know how much the Dutch imports of agriculture? Our esteemed congressman is here. The Dutch import of agriculture is $46.7 billion. Dear friends import $46.7 billion in agricultural products, some of which they process, most of which they export after that. Now, when we import the same exports, the same imports, sir, you even import wheat. Now, my dear friends, let me tell you the story of wheat imports very briefly. We're gonna sit here and talk straight.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0189par0666	Mr. Secretary, come to the mazota, the fertilizer and let the citizen hear. Look, don't let anyone fool anyone. People aren't falling for it anyway, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0190par0668	Mr. Secretary, did the Prime Minister even tell you to forget the math I know? Now, my dear brothers, Turkey imported 2.6 million tons of wheat in 2010, correct... What did the Prime Minister say to you? GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEKER - but exported 4,700,000 tons of wheat.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0191par0672	The citizen is calling, saying, "Tell that minister about the diesel, the milk, the fertilizer, the food." GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (e.g. 4 million 700,000 tons). What's the difference? The difference is 2,100,000 tons. Turkey sold 2,100,000 tons more than it bought. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, you're going to shut it down, you're going to shut it down, you're going to hide it, you're going to hide it from the public, and then you're going to say:
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0192par0676	Did we export flour or wheat, Mr. Secretary? There's been a mix-up. Now, these are not true, my dear brothers. Now, the same thing about cotton, I'll tell you that. Misinformation. Now, look, Turkey starts importing cotton in 1991, 1991. Why? Turkey's textile industry is growing for him. In the past, Turkey used to produce textile industries, enough, but then textile exports grow, increase industrial capacity; Turkey is not enough to produce, it imports, works, sells. Now, look, Turkey imported 895 thousand tons of silk cotton worth $1.7 billion last year, silk cotton. What's textile export? $9.5 billion. My friend, if you're going to export $9.5 billion, if your raw material isn't enough, you're going to take this raw material from the world. Turkey is now a big country, so I won't buy anything from the outside. Is there any point in getting up and shrinking your industry, reducing your economy, reducing employment, reducing national income? Or is that what you'll do when you're in power? So this is how you're going to reduce Turkey? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Oh, my God! If that's what you're thinking, if you're thinking about it, it's a very sad situation. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Now, there's been a mention of the amount of loans related to the GAP and DAP provinces, and it's not there. My dear brothers, the Bank of Agriculture used $14m loans in 2002 to the GAP and DAP provinces -- 16 East Anatolian provinces and 9 Southeast Anatolian provinces -- 14 million! Do you know how much in 2011? 2 billion 200 million DAPs and GAP provinces: 2.2 quadrillion. Now, then, what's the return rate? Only 14 percent, so 86 percent of them don't come back. The return rate today is 99 percent; the return rate in the GAP and DAP provinces is 99 percent. The majority of Turkey, I just said, was 98 per cent.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0193par0686	You flip the numbers, Mr. Secretary, you pull a rabbit out of a bag. Now, my dear friends, of course, I know my time is limited. It's a huge issue of agriculture, and everyone who's interested in agriculture is always making criticisms. Now, I just want to tell you the rest of my time... The Department of Agriculture workers are very unhappy. GIDE, I'LL TELL YOU ABOUT IT. In 2023, I had a vision for Turkey as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I have the vision, the goal of raising $62 billion in revenues, dear friends, to $150 billion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My export is $13 billion. I aim to increase my exports to $40 billion. These are not extreme goals, but realistic goals.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0194par0693	Tell me about the investment. What we've done so far, it's his guarantee. What did you invest? What about irrigation investments, land collection?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0195par0696	The farmers are waiting.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0196par0697	Mr. Secretary, I'm getting a call: Mr. Minister, let him explain this diesel, explain the fertilizer, explain the bait, explain how much milk is. Why don't you say them? Now, we're doing new jobs, look, we're bringing new projects. In agriculture, my dear brothers and sisters, our goal in the rural development move is 3,000 new agricultural facilities.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0197par0700	Fred Flintstone is proud of you, Mr. Secretary! We've made 3,000, we're making 3,000 new ones. You're stuck in the Stone Age.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0198par0703	Some farmer broke the TV because of you. I broke the TV. The farmer says he's texting. My dear brothers and sisters, we're setting up organized farming areas in Turkey. In the new era, we establish organised agriculture and livestock areas in the matter of livestock, nursery, ornamental plants, geothermal greenhousery. Turkey is making a very important step towards reliable food. As of December 13th, the new secondary legislation is introduced, and whatever it is in Bursa is now, there will be no difference between Belgium-Bursa in terms of food safety, and there will be no difference between Ankara. The standards of the European Union are fully implemented here...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0199par0706	Thank you, Mr. Eker. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0198par0709	Did you even make me forget the math I knew? Did the Prime Minister tell you? Did the Prime Minister say that? You talk outside the agenda, I'll answer the rest.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0199par0711	Mr. Eker, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0198par0712	I wonder if the Prime Minister said that.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0199par0713	On behalf of the government, Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0200par0716	Can you tell us about the unregistered teachers, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0201par0717	Mr. President, I'd like to start by welcoming all of you with my compliments as I present to you the National Ministry of Education's 2012 budget. Before we begin to present information about our budgets and activities, I wish our citizens and their relatives again and ask for patience and mercy, especially in the earthquakes in our province, which have been devastating in our region, including Ercish and Van. Very valuable MPs, we've always felt deeply about the devastating effects that really took place in the van after the earthquake. In this process, we also worked very hard to prevent any setbacks in education. With that intention, I'd like to give you a few words about where we're at right now. First of all, with the Van earthquake, about 1,939 of our classrooms were damaged and unusable after both earthquakes. We have now reached the point where we will be able to study in our schools, which have remained intact from the measures that we have made since then, after studying to study in our damaged schools or in our very few damaged schools, as of the number of classes, we will be able to move to bilateral education and create additional classrooms. So when we put aside the classes that we've lost and we don't use the damaged ones, we seem to have the number of classrooms to teach, and so far we've completed almost three prefabricated schools, and we've made them ready for education. Other than that, we also had the opportunity to build new classrooms in container neighborhoods and tent neighborhoods. But in order not to risk the lives and health of our children at all, despite our own findings, we are now reviewing the education of Istanbul Technical University, Middle East Technical University, Sakarya University and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality with experts, and in order to be able to study in schools where we have found that it is safe for our children again. After these reviews, we'll decide for education. But I must say that we have started training in the area outside of that, other than the center of Van and Ercish. Right now, it's all happening on its own. Again, in the earthquake process, about 40,000 of our students were transferred to our lodgings and homes in different cities of our country. About 31,000 of these made the transfer by removing their records. Our student, who was around 9,000, went as a visiting student -- who were mainly 8th and 12th graders -- and where they went, they were also registered free of charge or training courses for the university in private schools. Highly valued lawmakers, we also know that there is a long way to go, even though we have skipped an important threshold over investments in the field of education, which requires common effort and responsibility for all of us, over the past decade. If a country has problems with quality of life, income distribution, poverty, crime and terrorism, it actually has problems with education. Here's education is the most important element for our country to develop in the context of human values as well as in science, technological and economics. And the responsibilities of working in a field of such strategic importance are really great. Our primary goal is to enrich, spread, and deliver to all our citizens the resources and environments that fit the upbringing of qualified and equipped individuals. Increased quality as well as the prevalence of education will be our top priority in the following process. More than the inputs of education, we will measure our success in education with the impact of these inputs on our children's growth and focus on creating school environments in which our children are happy to be in. The number of goals of higher education from pre-school education to higher education in all steps and a more qualified education, the establishment of vocational education in response to the needs of the market, the widespread and effective use of all kinds of information technology, the value of international student success, as well as the ten most successful countries from PlSA, are on the shoulders of our republic in its 100th year. If we want our country to develop and be in the top ten of all the world's economies in 2023, we need to pay more attention to education. We need to make our children capable of international competition. We should also perceive education outside of subjective and ideological debates, rational and view it as an area that determines the future of the country, and we should come up with an idea in this framework. Education during our governments has been seen as an important opportunity and strategic area in order to make Turkey a constructive, distinguished partner in modern civilization, and has been able to receive the highest share of budgets in this regard. In the 2012 budget, the largest share has also been earmarked for education, and the responsibility for all of us should be the most efficient, most rational use of this resource to raise quality in education to the level of developed countries. In this regard, we will be in a more effective collaboration and coordinated work with all the partners of the training, and together we will make education the address of our solutions, not our problems. We will carry out this nation's present and future educational service tirelessly and tirelessly, and I wish the Turkish Grand National Assembly the ease of budget work.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0202par0730	The TV feed has been cut, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0201par0731	Very valuable lawmakers, as part of annual performance programmes based on new policy, activity and projects that will be developed in the Ministry's Strategic Plan, which is our road map for the years to come, with the services that our ministry is currently running, and I would like to talk to you now in 2011 about activities, activities related to education and education and projects, activities for the development of institutional capacity, activities in international relations and integration with the European Union, and our goals for 2012. Education systems are influenced by economic, social and cultural, political developments at national and international levels because they have an open system. From the 1990s, trends in particularly developed countries are intended to reorganise education systems with a lifetime learning approach and to bring continuity to developments in this area. Our goal in education and teaching services is to train, develop, and prepare for life, regardless of male or female distinction. If we, as a whole society, cannot contribute to the process of producing women and men, young and old, we cannot compete with other countries. For him, we need to get to the point where any member of this community is able to do what it can do and to make it a part of production to strengthen our international competitiveness. In this scope, we have restructured a Turkish education system from pre-school to higher education, including a vision that grows in the eighth and ninth development plan, shares its income fairly, returns to a globally competitive knowledge society, and completes integration into the European Union. First of all, I want to say that we have made some very important efforts to ensure the equality of opportunity and opportunity in education. At the very core of these are classrooms and guesthouse productions, perhaps. From 2003 to 2011, we completed a total of 169,325 classes and submitted them to the service of education and education, 32,030 by our benefactors. By the end of 2010, 747 elementary and secondary school boarding houses were opened and 92,462 new bed capacity was provided. In 2010, there were 339,790 students at the 2,197 pensions, with the capacity of 438,910 beds. Between 2003 and 2011, a total of 10,327 new schools, 8,473 official, 1,854 private, were opened at all levels of education. The mothers of our 14 million 655, 879 children in secondary education were paid $1 billion,818 million,756,885 Turkish liras from 2003 to August 2011, with assistance from the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund. In 2002, the number of students who received scholarships in the first and secondary school, again within the scope of the equality of opportunity, reached 23,000 in 2011. In 2012, 240 thousand students are expected to receive scholarships. The scholarship to elementary school and secondary school students was $12.63 per student in 2002, while in 2012 the number will be paid by 117 Turkish liras. In 2011-2012 education and education year, 80 districts and 875 districts were taught to transport education for all to benefit from eight years of elementary school, which is being implemented to improve access opportunities for education. The number of students who were moved to provide a qualified education and teaching service was 281,833 in the 1997-1998 school year, while 722,380 in the 2011-2012 training and teaching period. Since the 2010-2011 education and teaching year, it has also started carrying secondary schools, especially in order to ensure that our girls continue in secondary school. A total of 68,779 students, including 27,973 girls and 40,806 boys, were offered transport and food services in the 2010-2011 education and teaching year in 76 cities. The 2011-2012 education and teaching year included the application of the nineth graders, as well as the 10th graders. There is also a lot of work being done in the schooling of our children in the age of forced education. The e-school, e-regulation system and strategies for schooling and continuation of children who are not registered or registered and who are unable to attend school are closely followed. With an address-based registration system, all of our children who are not enrolled in school are identified, and there are commissions of home visits in our schools and attempts to convince them to go to school. As of December 2008, the number of children who were in the mandatory age of education and who did not attend primary school dropped from 326 thousand to 52,838, as of September 2011. We have reason to believe that a significant amount of our 52,000 students are the children of our citizens living abroad. In order to complete the education of students who were not enrolled in school on time for various reasons and who are at least three years behind their age, there are training programmes for the upbringing to complete their education on time. In addition, the proportions of education and education rated 85 per cent in the 1997-1998 education and teaching year have increased to 91 per cent in 2002-2003, while the 2010-2011 education and education year reached 100.42. In other words, we now have 100.4 female students against 100 boys who are studying in our elementary schools today. The gender rates between girls and boys in secondary school dropped from 74.70 per cent in 1997-1998 to 72 per cent in 2002-2003, while the rate rose to 88 per cent in 2010-2011. In other words, we have 88 female students against 100 of our children who are studying in secondary school today, and our efforts to school our daughters continue in a very intense way. Gender rates between children and girls in higher education increased from 69.58 per cent in 1997-1998 to 74.33 per cent in 2002-03 education, to 86.24 per cent in 2010-2011. Let's see, the Girls' School Campaign, Increased School Rates Project I and II, the Future Aydın Girls Project, the Transported Education Project in Middle School and the transformation of general upper secondary schools into Anatolian upper secondary schools have increased our number of girls and girls in all areas, especially in vocational and technical education in 2011-2012 years. Again, one of the projects conducted in education for the equality of opportunity and opportunity, as you all know, is a textbook procurement project. From 2003 to 2011, a total of 1,338 million, 603,833 books were distributed, totalling 2 billion 293 million,917,08 Turkish liras. To this end, the 2012 budget was earmarked $265m for primary school, 144.5 million for secondary school. As it turns out, work has been done and continued to ensure the equality of both access and opportunity in primary schools, which are mandatory for every citizen to find judgment in the Constitution. Other than that, our ministry's structural change in basic education and pre-school education are combined under the basic educational roof to ensure the integrity of the programme, allowing both areas to increase the efficiency of labour and resources. Preschool education is considered by everyone in the world to support the physical, mental, psychosocial development of children in a 3-5-year-old group. Noting that pre-school education investments are the highest-income investments for the community, countries have raised their pre-school education rates by over 80 per cent. Pre-school education, which was one of our government's most basic priorities, increased by 11 per cent in 2002 to 43 per cent in the 2010-2011 education and teaching year of 48-72 months and 67 per cent in the 60-72 months. As the ministry, in two years, we will take every precaution to reach the level of education of all our children in the age of five, and we will make efforts to reach 100 percent. Our main goal, however, is to reach the schooling rate of 100 per cent in the five-year-old group, especially in the next 60-72 months. To this end, 5-year-olds in the 2009-2010 education and teaching year have been widely introduced in the 2011-2012 education and teaching year with 71 years of forced education for pre-school children, starting in 32 districts. In 2012-2013, the transition pilot application to mandatory education will be expanded to the entire province of 81. In primary school, as in the entire country, we consider it a priority task to get education services from every part of our country, every region, every city, and every human being, including mandatory primary education. The net schooling rate in primary school was 90.98 per cent in 2002 and 98.41 per cent in the 2010-2011 education and teaching year. We expect him to reach 99 percent in this school year. In the strategic plan, we will have achieved 100% in 2014. The standards of primary education institutions, developed by our ministry and launched throughout the country in April 2011, create an internal control mechanism in the process of primary education. The standards of primary education institutions in this framework will establish a structure that will allow data on child services to be collected, analysed and evaluated in all primary schools and district centers of our ministry through e-school-supported software. In secondary school, we strive to improve the rate of schooling in gender and regional differences to the level of developed countries, to prepare our students for higher education and future education by giving them a common culture in a flexible structure, based on their interest and abilities. Five separate units responsible for conducting vocational and technical education in our ministry have been brought together within a single structure to resolve co-ordination issues in vocational and technical education, to harmonise around the same strategic purpose and to ensure the market needs of vocational education. In secondary school, it can also be assessed in two departments - general secondary school and vocational and technical secondary school. Since the 2005-2006 education and teaching year, 580 general upper secondary schools have begun to be transformed into Anadolu high schools in general secondary school. From 2010, 86 general upper secondary schools were transferred to vocational and technical secondary schools. One of the goals in our strategic plan is to move to a flexible structure in secondary school that provides effective guidance and guidance services that enable horizontal and vertical transitions until the end of the planning period. As part of this goal, we also work to prepare the infrastructure needed to move to a model that is based on the type of program instead of the school type, allowing horizontal and vertical transitions. In general secondary school, the number of students dropped from 34 per class in 2002 to 2003 in education and education has been reduced to 31 degrees in 2010-2011, despite higher schooling rates. In 2002, net schooling rates rose from 50.57 per cent to 69.33 per cent in 2010-2011 education and education. In vocational and technical secondary schools, we aim to increase the power of the sectors in global competition and to develop more qualified manpower, to create an advanced, flexible, modular, programming variety, technological infrastructure strong and more demanding professional and technical training structure. Professional and technical teaching institutions are recognised as aware of the critical importance of boosting development, boosting employment and boosting the entire country's competitiveness. As of the year 2001-2002 education and training, the share of vocational and technical secondary education -- excluding open education -- was raised to 46.34 per cent in the 2010-2011 education and teaching year. We aim to increase this to over 50 percent in the coming years. In 2012, we will soon implement new strategies for improving vocational and technical education in secondary school. We are also preparing for new practices in the process for increased share of private teaching institutions. We will continue to increase aid for disabled persons in the 2010-2011 education and teaching year. As of October 2011, the payments so far are 839 million, 673, 955 Turkish liras. Between 2006-2011, this number reached a point that was approaching 4.5 billion liras.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0203par0764	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0201par0765	Very valuable MPs, maybe there's a lot to say about this, but there wasn't enough time. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit02spe0203par0768	Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0203par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law bill in 2012 on the Central Management Act in 2010, where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0204par0005	Sir, Mr. Minister of Agriculture says that a document signed by the World Bank and the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Industry and Trade at the time promised to remove agricultural support. Now, I'm in a need to make a correction on that subject. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer him.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0203par0006	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0204par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, you have to be honest about everything here. So that document you got, it's the Farmer's Recording System? I do. Is there a direct income support? There is, isn't there? No. Now you don't have one. You said it, did you? You guys finish your speech, I have a say, I'll talk. No direct income support, huh? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) You make your speech. So, is there an alternate product development program? I do. So, for the first time in our time, is there a premium on cotton, soy, fatty seeds? I do. Is there any support for all the bait plants? I do. Why don't you tell the truth? In 2001, the support will be removed. It was signed, and in 2002, how did our support double the amount of 2001? So how many in 2011, Mr. Secretary, how many in 2011 are the supports that are 65 in a thousand, 80 in a thousand, with the GDP rate? How many?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0205par0013	49 in a thousand.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0204par0014	49 in a thousand. Now, here's a message to the Minister of Agriculture: Mr. Secretary, there's a lot of answers to what you're saying, but if you really want to compare that period and argue about it, you'll have a clear challenge now. You make a program with our former Minister of Agriculture, and everyone will see what's going on. Let's go! If you have the courage and knowledge, go to television, discuss today's agricultural policies together, don't make one-way statements here.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0206par0017	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. President, I have to answer because he's setting me up. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0204par0019	Answer what? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMEDI EKER (Dyarbakır) told me what I didn't say.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0206par0021	You make your corrections, sir. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Eker. Mr. President, now speaking at the World Bank, not just now, but in a document that I showed to the World Bank president of that day, under three ministers of that day, signed by three of them, as if there were something that wasn't in it. Now, dear friends, here, in this letter, the government of that day says that I, the chemical fertilizer support, other supports... I just mentioned some of that in my speech. This letter...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0207par0028	We'll give them all as direct income support, he says. Why don't you do it? Look, there's this letter, there's this letter. It's a commitment. Either you don't know what's written or it doesn't work for you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0208par0031	Tell me how it went up if it was removed. Mr. Vural, if I remember correctly, you were Minister of Transport that day. You're the... Tell me about it, it's here, take it! So there's a six-page commitment here. You haven't read it. Look, it's right here! Now, there's a six-page commitment. That's what I said. Let me read it to you in English! GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly) English and English... Let me read it to you, you understand English, you don't understand Turkish. So we know a little bit of Turkish, a little bit of English, and we read them. Here's the bottom line: there's a commitment on that date that chemical fertilizer, agricultural struggle and agricultural medicines, market price support, base price implementation, all other supports will be removed and removed. The World Bank... Do you? It supports direct income. In return, you say: "We will fulfill these commitments, we will proceed directly to the system of income support by order of the World Bank and the IMF. Yeah...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0209par0045	There was a revolution then, a revolution! The revolution was made with direct income support! In exchange, lend us $619 million. We will remove these benefits, and we will proceed directly to income support.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0208par0047	Didn't you use it until 2006? This is the letter. That's right. The economic crisis of Turkey that day... He's twisting it again! There's nothing wrong with it, it's real. Oh, we didn't talk about judging you with that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You twisted it again!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0210par0055	Thank you, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0208par0056	He's being given direct income support again, he's getting those supports. We just said, "We've taken over a bad period, we've healed it, we've come here, that's all." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, let's go! Look, if you've got heart and knowledge, go ahead! Come on!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0211par0086	Against Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0212par0089	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to the 2012 budget. I salute you all. Dear friends, the budget is made to give people prosperity, happiness, but for nine years this budget has been made especially to torment 25 million farmers. This is what I say now. Erol Güler of Ardahan has called me from Ardahan. He says, "I am miserable, my animal is not worth anything. I owe $5 million to the Agriculture Bank, and I can't pay it. Tell the Minister to make a phone call and give me a hand. Mr. Secretary, I present. I'll give you this, the note. Two: Mustafa Vargun Kars of Kars tells lawmakers: From here, Kars MPs, ruling MPs, I am held hostage in Istanbul. Right now, I have animals on a farm in Omerli, Istanbul. The animal I bought for $5,000 went down to $2,500, and it's not worth it. Please, let the Fish Association take my animals. You're getting $18 from the Jordanian company Hicazi. As for Karslı, you're getting $14 from Turkey. Is this God's will? Now, I'm speaking to the Karsians... the people in Kars have called... after the MP has spoken, everyone is rioting, the 5,000-dollar goods have gone down to $2,000, and what are they defending? We're devastated. We can't get credit, we can't sell our animals. Our weed ain't worth nothing, our animal ain't worth nothing. We were snowed in for seven or eight months. What are they talking about? Two: Jacob Tekdemir of Kahramanmarash says, "I'll take a loan of $150,000, I'll guarantee $500,000, they won't give me the loan again." They stopped the loans, they don't give loans to anyone. Karim Tantoglu of Giresun says: "I'll get 5000 lira loans, if you must bring 10 animals, give them to us." I don't have 10 animals, brother. I'm giving them my house, and they won't accept it again. Dear friends -- there's no time -- let me tell you, the imported animal has sunk our farmer, our peasant, and it's poisoning our people. How? Look, there was an article in the Radical newspaper the other day: he came to Turkey as mad cow from other countries, as if it were the product of Hungary, as if it were an animal. At the same time, small animals from Bulgaria are showing Bulgaria's animal -- import free from Bulgaria, unreleased from Hungary -- bringing diseased animals from countries that are not free. You know, animals with blue languages came from Austria. Now, Mr. Secretary, over there, come in, give me an answer. Now, you also have an answer here yesterday, Mr. Minister of Agriculture says that as of August 20, 2011, we stopped importing live cattle from Hungary from our country -- butchering and feeding live cattle from Hungary -- made, accepted -- but from Hungary on December 5th -- which is ten days ago. But we'll look into it, and the imports will continue. Dear friends, there's something here: animals from Hungary are sick to the head, and I'm here as a congressman, and all my friends know it. Mr. Secretary will answer that. Two, were the animals brought for sacrifice barren or barren? Would it or would it not be a sacrifice because barren animals are considered imperfect? Give me an answer to that, too. Three, why is it that the tenders at this Meat Fish Foundation are given to the Jordanian Hicazi firm and not given to anyone else? Close to $100 billion, friends paid for Turkish imports during the EC PARTY period, $100 billion. Mr. Secretary, if you had paid half of this money to the Turkish peasant, our village would have been raised today, our village would have had its property today. You just said: "Animalism has increased, numbers have increased." But if livestock has increased, why are we importing? Why are we importing? Well, stop it. Dear friends, let me tell you this: I've talked to all the red meat producers, including Ionya, including Afyon, including Adapazar. We've got enough on our hands. It's a valuable and quality animal, but the goods that are brought out of our property are given entirely to the allies. That's four pounds, and it's sold for $13, dear friends. Mr. Secretary, I'm running out of time, but I'll tell you this: don't crush the Turkish peasant so much. Go to a peasant, go to the villages if you're men, see what he says. Go to Kars. Let's go to the Kars animal market together. Let's see it. The peasant is miserable, my friends. In that sense, I say I'll vote against this budget, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0213par0107	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0214par0109	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0213par0110	...the talks of the fifth round are complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0214par0112	Mr. President, Mr. Öğüt has given false information about the work of the Fish Association, about the animals that were left after the victim, and if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0215par0113	The Minister will fix it.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0213par0114	There's no teasing here, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0216par0115	According to Article 60, sir, it's a short word... correction...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0217par0116	I'd like to make a brief correction.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0213par0117	Please enter the system.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0217par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct Mr. Ensar Öğün's statement at the point where there was no purchase of the Meat Fish Foundation when the animals returned at the Festival of Sacrifice. The fact that most of the victims, especially the animals from East Anatolia, were not sold on the victim, is also a problem caused by the misinformation of the opposition MPs before the victim and the pumping of information to the citizens...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0218par0123	Which means it couldn't be sold.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0217par0124	...then they started buying animals that couldn't be sold for $14, which is now in the hands of the state in Turkey, the Meat Fish Corporations that are now in the hands of the state, and they continue to buy them. I am correcting this in order to prevent a citizen from being misinformed. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0219par0126	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0220par0127	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I'd like to correct a piece of information from the Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0219par0129	Your system is already open, Mr. Tanal, but you entered the QA section.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0220par0131	Thank you. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, our Minister, said that support was given here, but you can appreciate that 80 per cent of the land in Turkey is not run by the landowners themselves, but by the manufacturer himself. But the need for these supports is diesel, fertilizer, grain, this kind of support is given to the landowner, not to the manufacturer. In that sense, the manufacturer is losing money. The information you're given is wrong in that regard, which means that the winners again, the landowners, the manufacturers, don't win. This needs to be fixed. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0221par0135	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0222par0136	Mr. President, I want to make something right. If you'll excuse me for two minutes...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0221par0137	This is the last time you'll be able to fix this, please. Please enter the system... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0223par0141	Thank you very much. Sir, since the victim was given cheaply for bringing imported animals, not false information, the reason for the animals left in the hands of our Turkish peasant, one. Secondly, the peasant's property was not transferred to the Thracian coast. Why wasn't it passed? Because the imported animals from Thrace are for sale. The animals that were brought in were sterilized, twisted, imperfect animals, so he wanted them to be sold, but our village didn't buy them again, but the real reason is because the Minister of Agriculture followed the policy. The villager was devastated, and now the Meat and Fish Corporation doesn't buy the animals of the people who are left with them for $18, but when they buy the Jordanian importer's animals from the carcas for $12, $13, $14, they're offering them $14, and they're hurting them. We say the same for 18 liras, the same for the Jordanian, the same for our Turkish peasant.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0224par0145	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. [[Continue]] Let's move on to the QA, Congressmans. We're going to do a 20-minute QA in this section. Ten minutes to the questions, ten minutes to the answers. Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0225par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, 3.2 per cent of our students in primary schools are studying our 350,000 children. Only 89.4 per cent of the students study bilaterally in Şanlıurfa. Even if we appoint all the unsupervised teachers, we'll be able to solve this problem once we've put the crowded classrooms in full-time training. Even if we assign these children to us, the number of teachers is not enough, but perhaps for the first time you've told us the truth, even though we've drawn pink paintings, we don't have resources, we can't appoint them. Another is the 90th place between the University of Yalova and 102 universities. Why is this Yalova neglected? Why is it unfair? And you need to make a change in terminology. There's no such thing as the quality of education, Mr. Secretary. I think you'd make the educators happier if you said it was the quality of education. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0226par0180	Thank you, Mr. Tünce. Mr. Vural... OK, VURAL- Thank you. I'd like to address my questions to the Minister of National Education. The appointment of 55,000 teachers was promised before the election, but 11.544 was appointed. When do you plan to appoint the remaining 44,000 teachers? Apology appointments have been canceled. Will you be reassigning this apology group in February 2012? And how much is the need to study in Turkey? Can you fill me in on that? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0227par0190	I'd like to ask Mr. National Education Minister my first question: our entire country has been amazed by the cut from the salary of our teachers kidnapped by the terrorist organization. Has there been a correction on this strange subject? Do our teachers return to their duties? Did they receive psychological support before returning to their duties? I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture: December 2010 the price of diesel is $3.020, December 2011 the price of diesel is still $3.83. It's 60 percent cheaper for boats at sea, so no taxes. Can't the same practice be applied to our farmers? So we can't get gas cheap without taxing our farmers? I'd like to ask our Minister of Agriculture again in 2000...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0228par0194	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0229par0196	Thank you. My first question to the Minister of Agriculture: the finest garlic in the world and our country is produced in the Kastamon Taşkörü region. The recent release of imports has negatively affected our Chinese garlic manufacturer from China. Allowing the Chinese seed to be planted again causes our product quality to deteriorate. Does your ministry have any work to preserve the quality of the product? Do you have any new efforts to support our manufacturer? Another question to the Minister of National Education: has the title of education taken into consideration in the educational community, which is the title of education inspector?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0230par0199	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Kören...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0231par0201	I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education: You've certainly read the headline of the daily Milliyet today, the website of the students of the Ministry of National Education, which is open to the club, why is it closed to Can Dündar? Really, it's a terrible situation. Turkey's Telekom is reportedly closed by the Ministry of National Education. I want an answer to that. And when I give you a question proposal, you say, "There are 20,000 teachers short in the southeast. There are 150,000 teachers short in Turkey, as far as I know. Why don't you make these appointments or when 264 thousand teachers are waiting for the appointment? We don't need so many teachers waiting to be appointed, so let them take other professions in accordance with their abilities. You advised them. And finally...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0232par0205	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0233par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture: Mr. Minister, a manufacturer just called from Adana, and I've taken a loan from them, and I'm selling them with their calves, but I can't pay the loan, he says, specifically he told me to announce it to you. Secondly, files are being made, and even though they've been made, there's been a problem with making files for our shareholders at the agricultural district managers. In that sense, would you consider giving a directive to the agricultural county department, the agricultural district directorate? Third: Fertilizer prices, diesel prices are skyrocketing, but the products produced by cotton producers and corn producers are extremely low. Do you plan to make an adjustment to this, to lower the price of fertilizer, to lower the price of fuel, to support the farmer? Fourth: Narcissian manufacturers are in a lot of trouble, and lemons are being sold for $400 today. Lemon maker...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0234par0213	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0235par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture: In his speech, they also mentioned the Agricultural Law, which was issued in 2006 and started in 2007, and you owe the farmer 16 billion dollars, as of 2010, because you did not make the amount you needed to support from 2007-2010. Mr. Secretary, do you plan to pay some of this debt with premium support for the table olives by making changes to the basin? My second question is: You're supporting Mazota, it's true, but I'd like to say that in recent years the AKP has given 550 million TL, mazota support from the farmer for $8 billion per year. My last question is, you mentioned the OECD and FAO report. And I'd appreciate it if you'd mention the 2011 European Union Progress Report. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0236par0220	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0237par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. The total funding for universities increased by 10.8 per cent in the 2012 budget, while the funding for Celal Bayar University increased by 1 per cent. In 2011, Celal Bayar University's budget ratio to the higher education budget is 1.26 per cent. In 2012, it dropped to 1.14 per cent. According to the 2011 public investment programme, why was it lowered in the 2012 budget when there was an 8m-dollar resource needed to complete ongoing projects at Celal Bayar University? I move to Mr. Minister of Agriculture: Do you intend to support raisins and old grapes with an important agricultural production and export capacity, and also, do you intend to give the table olive a bonus? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0238par0226	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0239par0228	Thank you. Are you able to provide the Minister of Food Agriculture and Animalism with the current structure of the Ministry to provide food safety from production to consumption at any stage? Why is it not considered that all our citizens should be employed in your Ministry of Food Engineers in all four corners of our country, under the name of the food consultant? While various incentives were extended by your ministry, the number of olive productions increased, our producers in our districts of Çanakkale, Ezine and Ayvacik had to leave their olives to rot in the trees, particularly the Aegean region, which dedicated their years to producing olives. Entrance prices rise every year, while olives and olive oil prices drop every year. You're going to leave the olives that the olive maker made in difficult circumstances for years to work to rot in the trees? The support hasn't been accepted yet. Mr. Secretary, do not fade the olive branch, which is the symbol of peace, and do not offend our manufacturer. Petting minors...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0240par0234	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0241par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Dinçer, what is the stage of your work on evacuating secular education? Will you also show up for 300,000 teachers who are looking forward to appointing your superior zeal for this matter? Apology-based transfer requests have previously been made every 45 days, while the new practice is held only in August each year. How do you intend to compensate for the loss of thousands of our fallen teachers? Do you feel responsible for the deaths of 27 of our teachers who were depressed and killed themselves while waiting for the appointment? Do you intend to relieve the victims of our suicide teachers and apologize? You can't solve the problems of hundreds of thousands of teachers who have been waiting for years, and you admit that you don't have any work to do. Do you intend to resign because of the injury you have inflicted on hundreds of thousands of teachers?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0242par0241	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Our time for questions is up. Now, the Minister's answers. Which one of our ministers will answer first? Mr. Dinçer, our Minister of National Education, come in, sir. You have five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I will answer the question of Mr. Tültüm, concerning the united classes. Highly valued lawmakers, united classes are not just a method for not being a teacher or a classroom. In many countries around the world, where there are fewer students, if there are students in a different class, there is an application for a class combined with the purpose of teaching children there. So in our country, if there's more than one class, the first to the eighth grade, and there's not enough of them, we're putting together a class of pedagogic formations for them. So we're already implementing the system where we can't do it. From this point of view, an analysis based only on one factor may not be true there. Other than that, there was an assessment of the quality by Mr. Tünce. Of course, the word quality and the word quality are not very different words in context. Maybe if you had criticized me, you would have said: "It's a foreign word, you didn't use it." It would have been a much more reasonable criticism and I could have accepted it, but there's not much difference between quality and quality, and there's not much difference between context and meaning, one is just a word that strangers use. Other than that, Mr. Vural has a question about teachers waiting to be appointed. First of all, I must say, to answer the questions of our lawmakers who were asking other teachers who were waiting for the appointment: very dear friends, in 2010 and 2011, as well as in our own governments, there have been the most appointments of teachers in previous administrations. In 2010, we appointed about 40,000 people as teachers, about 40,000 again in 2011. 11,000 people weren't assigned. 11,000 people, after I became Minister, I appointed the remaining 11,000 remaining members of the 40,000 staff in August. So...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0244par0252	Tell me what you said in the election, what you promised in the election.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0253	29,500 people were appointed before the elections in May. From this point of view, he's the one who's been assigned for the year. Other than that...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0245par0254	55 grand was to be taken after the election.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0255	No, okay? Mr. Vural and very dear friends, the staff set in the budget are annual staffs, as many casts as are set for 2011.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0245par0256	I take it you've apologized.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0257	I apologized. The reason I apologized was because 40 grand was assigned from the 55,000 assessment. From that point of view...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0246par0258	Sir, who made a mistake and you apologized?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0259	What difference does it make? What difference does it make?
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0246par0260	No, we're curious.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0261	Secondly, we still need about 95,000 classrooms in our country, given the current schooling rates. Beyond that, if we reach the strategic schooling rates we're aiming for, it's possible to say that this number will increase even more. Of course, beyond that, maybe you should say this. In particular, there have been some questions and evaluations related to Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, Urbana and other cities. Let's just say that in our immigration provinces, we experience more educational problems. Our provinces, such as Urbana, Diyarbakır, İstanbul, Bursa, İzmir, Ankara, Adana, Mersin, come to us as more difficult cities. Mr. Sarıbaş has a question about our teachers who have been kidnapped by the terrorist organization. Only one of our teachers was our staff teacher, and the rest were paid teachers. So, his staff teacher couldn't live in the area later...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0247par0264	Then throw it away!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0248par0265	It doesn't matter!
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0266	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer. You don't have to get excited there. We later assigned our staff teacher to transfer to his province, while our paid teachers continue their duties where they are, where there was no application, such as a cancellation of the contract. What I'm going to say to Mr. Çınar. Who asked about the education inspectors is that in particular, in recent years many institutions in Turkey have done similar applications in line with the restructuring perspective. What we're doing is not a unique practice, it's a conceptualization of a title in Turkey in accordance with most recent changes. Thus, we have not made any different assessments than other institutions that perform similar practices.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0249par0269	Mr. Dinçer, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0243par0270	Well, I'll answer the other questions, friends, in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0249par0272	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Here you go, Mr. Eker. Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, of course, have come up with a situation where I've just been really upset, where society has been misinformed. One orator said that there was sick meat coming from Hungary to Turkey on the stand and said twice. Guys, this information is not accurate. This is unrealistic information because it's being tested from both the BSE and all the meat entering Turkey, both living animals and livestock are being quarantined and conducted accordingly.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0250par0278	Including the Jordanian firm, Mr. Secretary? So I guess it's too much to confuse society with real information in this way, I don't really know what to say, for the sake of politics, for the sake of politics, for the sake of politics, I think it's too much of a political responsibility. Two: one more thing was said... The community is confused, Mr. Secretary. It's not true, it's completely unreal. Second: Turkey imports $100 billion in food, agriculture. That's not real information either. In Turkey, all eight years of imports during all EC PARTI governments are $70 billion, and exports against it are $73.8 billion, including total raw materials in eight years, including agricultural raw materials, but exports against it are $70.8 billion. And that's not true, so that's not true either. Society needs to be informed correctly, not wrongly. When we look at the trade on food materials, the export is 68 billion, 448 million dollars -- from this 2003 to 2010 -- the difference is a positive foreign trade balance in favour of Turkey. I want to fix it this way, first of all. In regards to the meat and fish... the Meat and Fish Society has announced the purchase of all remaining sacrifices of the citizens... and there have been cut-offs for 4,000 or so cattle that have been applied for at $14 a kilogram. What you give, Mr. Öğüt, for $18, is taken from the Hicazi firm. The information is not true. And it's completely, if it's not intentional, if it's not deliberate information, if it's not misinformation, if it's not confusing information, it's unreal. I'd like to present it to the community's knowledge, on this occasion, lawmakers, as well as to your knowledge. Please, let's face it, but let's not give the provocative and in reality, completely unrealistic information to society. We don't have the right. Now, Mr. Sarıbaş had something to say about the price of diesel. Now, we, dear friends, are offering $550 million worth of diesel support. We started this. It's in direct income support. Just like we started the fertilizer support. $620 million in fertilizer support. These are the figures of 2010; we paid them in 2010. This covers about 15 per cent of the cost. But that's not the only support we've given. Now, there's been another misinformation just now. The other day, the leader of an opposition party said the same thing here, and they obviously gave him false information. It says 8 billion liras. So you give the farmer $550 million in gas money, but you get 8 billion in taxes from the farmer's diesel. Now, it's in the transcripts. This isn't real either. Because the farmer uses about 1.5 million tons of diesel. That's $3.86. All of this, I mean, with his tax, his income, his cost, everything, he'd still be making $5 billion. If you accept a 50% tax on this, it's $2.7 billion. So where's $2.7 billion, 8 billion? And I'll leave that to the true discretion of our nation. Because that's all, really, that's what we've seen in this period of time, to twist the numbers so much that I'm going to oppose them. We'll give you these. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll tell you one more thing. Now, as field-based support, our esteemed congressman, Mr. Çınar...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0251par0294	Your time is up, Mr. Eker. If you want me to continue, I'll give it to you in writing. Your time is up, but we'll be glad to have it in writing. Thank you, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0252par0298	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has stated that the lawmakers have given accounts, information, distortions, misinformation. In fact, because of the misinformation and accounts given by the Minister, the Prime Minister said, "Ya, you've even made me forget math as we know it." Were you there? So it's Mr. Eker, who confuses and confuses accounts. Your job is gossip, go through them.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0253par0302	That's what the papers said.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0254par0303	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0255par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0254par0305	Mr. Irony, here you go. What are you...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0255par0306	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, regarding the diesel, it states that both my question and our Mr. President... have been misexplained. I want to explain this, fix it. I'd like to say here, in front of you, why we're talking about 8 billion.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0254par0307	Please enter the system. A brief statement... and I promise you your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0255par0311	Thank you. Mr. President, we are one of the MPs who always express the truth and what we know in the honor of the intellectual. Turkey uses 13 billion litres/year diesel. Farmers use 3 billion liters of this in agriculture. It's not true. No, what do you mean it's not true? We can't... GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ That information is not true. That information isn't real. No, we're getting these from research institutes, from the Agricultural Ministry's relevant sources. It's not true. Now, let me put it this way, Minister, I've listened to you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0256par0319	Congressmans, we can't get out of this. Please, you said what you were going to say, and the congressman will say it, and he'll report it. We won't know right now.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0255par0320	Now, 3 billion litres per year are used by farmers. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) doesn't use it, it's not true. The 2.3 TL of mazot, which is $3.8, is OTV plus VAT. GEDA, TRAVEL AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) uses 1.5 million tons of farmers. If you multiply 3 billion gallons per year by 2.3 TL, that's $8 billion, that's the right number. The farmer uses half of it. Please, I wish you wouldn't deflect like you always do, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0257par0327	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0258par0329	I'd like to make a statement, sir. He said I was provocative, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0257par0330	Please, I'd like you to step aside for a moment...
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0258par0332	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, if he didn't come to another country and come here from Hungary to the mad cow, why did you stop importing in Hungary? One. Two: Why did you invite the Hungarian delegation here on December 20th? If you don't have mad cow disease, why are you seeing the Hungarian delegation, why did you invite them, why did you stop importing them? Three: Most importantly, you paid the Hicazi company $18.5 --karkas -- you bid $5.8. When you multiply it, it's 250, and that's when you multiply it by -- you know -- you fold it by 2 -- that's $18.5. Now, you got 58 percent of the rate, that's what the Meat and Fish Association told me, not 58 percent. It's 50 percent the rate of the animal coming from the road, my friends. For the same money, $18.50, I say you take the flesh of our own village's animal, and that's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2011-12-11sit03spe0259par0336	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. [[Continue]] Members of lawmakers, I will now make you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the fifth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 30 ▪ GEDA, ACTIVITY AND ANIMALITY 1. ▪ Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 121,665,901 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 10,219,284.799 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 05 Environmental Protection Services 1,740,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 90.545,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 36,102.300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 11.321.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 10,484.859.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. The Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ The Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs Final Account for Central Management 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Total allowance: 7.863,785,444.00 - Budget Expenses 7.900.994.027.25 - Payments Expenses: 100,650.691.66 - Canceled allowance: 63,442.108.41 - Payment for the following year: 531,090.00 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2010. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account for 2010: those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Agriculture Reform General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Total allowance: 362.159.245.00 - Budget Expenses 358.941.735.25 - Canceled allowance: 3.217.509.75 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of Agriculture Reform was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.09........................................................................................................................................ 1. ▪ Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 19,747,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 30,023,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 49,770,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 47,720.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 2,050.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 49,770,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The tobacco and alcohol market regulatory agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. The Board of Tobacco, Tobacco Mamullers and Alcoholic Booze Market Editing Board of Directors in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Tobacco, Tobacco Mamults and Alcoholic Booze Market Editorial Board 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Total allowance: 48,701,082.00 - Budget Expenses 46.153.569.52 - Canceled allowance: 2,547,512.48 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate 48,701,082.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 45,944,298,93 (B) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Tobacco, Tobacco Mamullers and Alcoholic Booze Market Organization was adopted as part of the central management account in 2010. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of National Education shall take part in the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 1 p.m...... the education of the nation. 1. ▪ National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,190,358,488 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 64.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.89,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 179,453,925 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 09 Education Services 37,797,683,577 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained General TOPLAM 39,169,379,190 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Education was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the national education ministry's central management account of 2010 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ National Ministry of Education Final Account for Central Management 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Total allowance: 21.767,456,371.42 - Budget Expenses 30,413,333,660.54 - Expenses: 8.833.668.139.92 - Canceled allowance: 144,573,728.50 - Payment for the following year: 43,217,122.30. (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Education was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the High School Board will take part in the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 38.01 - HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING 1. ▪ High School Board Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22.255,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 2,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 09 Education Services 6,709,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained GENEL TOPLAM 28.976,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 24,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 28.907,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 45,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 28.976,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Council of Higher Education was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Board of Higher Education in 2010 will take part in the final account of central management: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ The Higher Teaching Board Final Account for Central Management 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Total allowance: 54,197,651.63 - Budget Expenses 46,886,233.96 - Canceled allowance: 7.311,417.67 (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 18.316,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year : 331,172.592.86 (B) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The High School Board was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the President of the Centre for Measurement and Placement shall be transferred to the chapters of the 2012 budget: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.01........... the... the... the... the.. the.. the.... the... the..... the.... the..... the...... the................. the................. 1. ▪ Central Management Budget for 2012, chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 14.628.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 09 Education Services 215,680,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 232.559.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 283,990.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 6,010.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 290,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I submit to your votes that the President of the Student Selection and Placement Center in 2010 will take part in the final account of the central administration: Those who don't... Sustained. Student Selection and Placement Centre 1. ا Student Selection and Placement Centre Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Total allowance: 381,707,853.60 - Budget Expenses 363,782.331.59 - Canceled allowance: 17.925.522.01 (A) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 260,700,000. - Net Collection of the Year: 286,623,599.45 (B) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The student selection and placement centre office was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. Now, I'm going to have the university's central management budgets for 2012 and the transfer of the central management accounts for 2010 to your votes separately, and I'm going to give them to you. I submit to your votes that the budgets of the universities in 2012 will be transferred to the section of the budgets in 2012: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm having them read the income sheets with the grant boards: 38.02 (ANKARA UNIVERSITY) a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 30,862.150 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 80.422,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.615,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 335,428,850 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 451.828,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 27.377.650 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 413,686,350 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 10,764,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 451.828,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.03 (ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY) a) Middle East Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 41,047,700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 53,800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 2.218,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.722,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 227,876,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 278.018,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 35,006,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 241.102,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,910,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 278.018,000 Those who don't... those who don't... Sustained. 38.04 ▪ HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 52.147,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 166,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.441,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 64,452,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.896,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 289,516,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 421.618,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 29.068,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 377.542,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 15,008,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 421.618,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.05 (GAZI UNIVERSITY) A) Gazi University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 36,287,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.794,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 30,977,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 324.062,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 404.220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 36,320,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 357,403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 10.797,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 404.220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.06 ▪ ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 60,004,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 12.500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 9.605,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2,008,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 556,471,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 640.598,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 52.836,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 554,636,500 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 33.125.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 640.598,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.07 (ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY) a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 40.324,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 3000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4,873,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.325,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 223,643,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 273.168,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 28.661.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 242.577,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,930.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 273.168,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.08, UNIVERSITY OF THE BOUGS a) Boğaziçi University 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 35.208,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.565,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 8.595,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 109,448,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 154.816,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 19,838,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 134.345,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 633.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 154.816,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.09 ▪ MARMARA UNIVERSITY a) Marmara University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22.350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 63.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.480,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 11.809,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.442,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 237.390.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 283,894,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 46,187,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 233,528,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3,179.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 282.894,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.10 (star TEKN UNIVERSITY) A) Yıldız Technical University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 15,476,900 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 10.400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,426.400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 131,398,300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 155.812,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 18.618,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 136.094,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 155.812,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.11 (MIMAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE) A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10.759,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.489.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 719,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 55,396,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 69,363,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,820,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 65,311.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 32,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 69,163,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.12 ▪ EGE UNIVERSITY A) Ege University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 41,829000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 154,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,460.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 69.045,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3.077,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 276.132,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 393.697,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 31,283,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 354,014,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 8,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 393.697,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.13 - NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY A) 9 September University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 23.060.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 52,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.964,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 34,113,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2,208,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 261,446,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 328.843,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Attempts and Property Profits 33.325.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 281,997,500 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 13.520.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 328.843,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.14 (TRAKYA UNIVERSITY) a) Thracian University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 15,688,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.113,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 19,897,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,322,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 107,382,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 148.402,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.567,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 127,555,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 4,280,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 148.402,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.15, UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSE A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 19,630.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 66,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.223,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 27.817,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,5811,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 205.104,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 261,421,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 32.450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 223,273,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5.698,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 261,421,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.16 (ANADOLU UNIVERSITY) a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 31,673,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 66,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.455,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.287,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 222.167.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 257,649,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 62.582,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 176,374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 18,693,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 257,649,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.17 (SELCUK UNIVERSITY) A) Selçuk University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 44.156,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 3.702,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 24.053,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 893000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 269.2000.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 345.804,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 47,291.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 286.317,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 12.196,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 345.804,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.18 ▪ ACDEN UNIVERSITY a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 12.729000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 67,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 48,727,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,344,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 166,099,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 234.350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.237,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 211,233,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 9.870.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 234.350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.19 (Ericias UNIVERSITY) a) Ercijas University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 21.047,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.886,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 25.014,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,420,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 163,895,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 215.262,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 19,470.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 193,317,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 2.475,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 215.262,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.20 (CUMHURITARY UNIVERSITY) A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 15.887,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 13.593,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 967,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 127,978,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 159.825,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 14.223,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 143,496,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 2,105,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 159.825,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.21 (CUKUROVA UNIVERSITY) A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 42,491.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 30,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 27,009,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,746,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 177,357,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 250,633,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 31,461.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 210.362,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 8.809,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capitales Comes to 1,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 250,633,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.22 ▪ ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE a) 19 May University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 18.497,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 17,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.472,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 23.998,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 636,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 165,563,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 215.183,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 29.272,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 180.466,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5.445,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 215.183,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.23 (KARADENIS TECHNIC UNIVERSITY) A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 19.939,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 75,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.553,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 28.403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,185,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 162.508,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 216,663,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 28.220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 184.332,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3,811.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 216,663,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.24 ▪ ATATURK UNIVERSITY a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 32.954,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 12,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,743.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 32.483,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.309,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 238.798,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 310,299.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 21.020,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 283,753,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5.526,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 310,299.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.25 ▪ UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF MAN A) Inönu University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 23.627.700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 69.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.421.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 15.220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,922.100 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 123,468,200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 167.928,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 15,053,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 147,378,800 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5,495.700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 167.928,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.26 (FIRAT UNIVERSITY) a) Firat University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22.404,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 49,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,620.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 24.407,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 819000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 138.209,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 191.508,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15,935,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 172,423,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3,150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 191.508,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.27 ▪ DICLE UNIVERSITY a) Dicle University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22.565,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 37,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.103,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 38.496,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 918,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 132.673,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 200.792,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.411.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 183,751000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 4,630.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 200.792,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.28 ▪ THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CENTURY a) Centennial University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 15.642,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 13,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.678,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 27.467,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,692,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 130,707,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 179.19,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.626,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 167,236,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3.337,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 179.19,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.29 ▪ GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 11:097,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 24,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.156,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 17.609,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,203,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 124,379.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 157.468,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.853,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 138,050.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5.565,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 157.468,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.30 (IMITATION INSTITUTION OF EMPLOYEMENTS) a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 18,934,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.074,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.217,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 39,847,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 61.072,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,607,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 59.326,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 139.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 61.072,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.31, GEBZE HIGH TEKNOLOGY INSTITUTION A) Gebze Institute of Higher Technology 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8.264,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,240,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 369.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 46.422,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 57.295,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.259.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 55,816,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 57.295,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.32 (HARRAN UNIVERSITY) a) Harran University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 12,620,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,704,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 6,471,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 816,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 104,684,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 126,301.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 5,649.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 119,489.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,163,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 126,301.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.33 (SÜLEYMAN SERIOUS UNIVERSITY) A) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 13.100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.186,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 12.942,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.763,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 170,630.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 203,621.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 20,918,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 181,150,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1.553,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 203,621.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.34 (ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSES) A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6,240,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 33000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 07 Health Services 14.046,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.666,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 110,274,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 135,259000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.480.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 122,450,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,339.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 135,259000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.35 (ZONGULDAK KARAELMAS UNIVERSITY) A) Zonguldak Karaelmas University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.360.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 8,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,680.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 12.139,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.538,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 81,650,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 111,376,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 13.612,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 95.576,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 2,188,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 111,376,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.36 ▪ MERSIN UNIVERSITY A) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.966,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 64,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.053,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 33.055,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.829000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 114.034,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 163,001000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.116,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 146,592,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3,220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Earnings 3000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 163,001000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.37 (PAMUKALE UNIVERSITY) A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 11.445,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 2.713.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,046,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 23.608,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 932,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 124.448,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 164.192,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17.947,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 144,749.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,496,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 164.192,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.38 (PEOPLE UNIVERSITY) A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8.829000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 22,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.889,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 28.141,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 87,457,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 128.908,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 16,004,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 112,200,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 104,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 128.308,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.39 ¡ KOCALI UNIVERSITY A) Alexei University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 14.486.300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 1,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.905.300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 9.784.100 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,237.100 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 161,036,200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 191,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Attempts and Property Profits 28.080.400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 159,712,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3,657,600 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 191,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.40 (SAKARIA UNIVERSITY) A) Sakarya University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 13.913,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 78,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,254,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 139,005,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 157,650,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 31,878,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 125.292,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 480,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 157,650,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.41 (CELAL BAYER UNIVERSITY) A) Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 16.215,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 7,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 7.406,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 680,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 119.596,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 146,254,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 16.326,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Influences with Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 2,408,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 146,254,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.42.... the ABANT UNIVERSE OF MR. UNIVERSE "A") (Avant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget for 2012) [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8.514,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 8.828,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 854,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 90,369.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 110.905,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 14.250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 96.022,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 633.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 110.905,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.43 (MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSITY) a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8.179.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 42,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.246,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 9.524,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 517,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 93,615,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 117.124,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 11.760.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 104,766,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 598,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 117.124,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.44 (AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY) A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.420.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 25,5811,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 638,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 107,856,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 146.296,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 15.497,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 128.997,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,802,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 146.296,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.45 (CAFKAS UNIVERSITY) A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.985,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.186,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 10,119.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 347,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 71,797,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 91.438,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,396,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 84,949,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 93.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 91.438,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.46 (CHANKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY) a) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 28.302,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 77,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.509,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 2.272,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,044,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 90.321.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 126.525,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,002,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 113,212,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 311,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 126.525,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.47 ▪ UNIVERSITY IN NUK a) Niğde University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.463,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.457,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 983.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 64,276,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 74,179,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,812,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 68.210.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 157,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 74,179,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.48 (DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY) a) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.854,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 54,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.707,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 6,783,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 874,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 81.956,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 103.228,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 15,682,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 87,339.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 207,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 103.228,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.49 ▪ GAZIOSMANPASHA UNIVERSITY A) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.931.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 23,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 4.092,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 11.699.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.046,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 83,834,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 111.626,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10.252,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 99,728,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,646,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 111.626,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.50 (MURLA UNIVERSITY) A) Muğla University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22.652,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.289,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 738,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,116,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 82,886,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 109,681000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.997,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 96,586,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 98,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 109,681000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.51.... the UNIVERSE OF THE KAHRAMANMANMARIST A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 10.459.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.265,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 31,379000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 606,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 87,052,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 131,761.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 10,439.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 120.427,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 395,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 131,261.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.52 (KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY) A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8.985,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 58,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.852,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 19,201,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,057,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 90.556,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 123,709,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 7.026,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Earnings 116,036,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 647,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 123,709,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.53 (Existing Osmangazi University of Osmangazi) A) Eskişehir Osmangazi University 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 14.310.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 22.430.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 588,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 112.342.800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 152.421,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 12.272,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 134,603,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5,545.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 152.421,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.54 (GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY) a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.544,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.301,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 856,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 38,794,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 47.495,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 8.911,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 38,291000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 133,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 47.345,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.55 (HORSE EVAN UNIVERSITY) a) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.223,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.697,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 446,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 52.496,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 61,872,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,894,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 56,888,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 90,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 61,872,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.56 ¡CASTAMON UNIVERSITY a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.782,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 38,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 668,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 41,963,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 51,201.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.398,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 47,770,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 13,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 51,201.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.57, UNIVERSE A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.387,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 14,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,051,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 14.860.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 248,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 59,615,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 82,175,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.528,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 78,266,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 381,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 82,175,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.58, MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY a) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.995,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,930.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.265,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 57,623.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 66,813.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 4,553,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 62.235,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 25,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 66,813.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.59 AUDIENCE UNIVERSITY A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.805,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.676,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 975,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 45.427,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 57,887,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 6,084,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 51,743.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 60,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 57,887,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.60 UNIVERSE TO THE UNIVERSE A) Rize University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.828,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 8,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 493,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 660,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 61,727,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 70.246,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,490,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 62,796,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 70.246,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.61 (NAMIK KEMAL UNIVERSITY) A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.604,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.585,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 11.574,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.218,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 65,968,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 86,953,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,843,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 81.065,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 45,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 86,953,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.62 (ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY) a) Erzincan University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8,786,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 6.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,460.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 206,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 57.432,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 67,891.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Attempts and Property Profits 4,786,700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 63,055,300 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 49,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 67,891.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.63 (AKSARAY UNIVERSITY) a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 4,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.091,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 50,896,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 55,965,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Attempted and Property Incomes 1.959.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 53.994,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 12,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 55,965,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.64, UNIVERSITY OF ENTER a) Giresun University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.679.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 646,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 453,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 51,139,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 60.017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.805,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 56.192,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 60.017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.65 (HITIT UNIVERSITY) a) Hitit University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.585.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 37,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,153,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 576,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 45,927.800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 52,279000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2.482,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 49,773,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 24,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 52,279000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.66 (BOZOK UNIVERSITY) A) Bozok University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8.706,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 7,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,300,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 2.368,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 343,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 42.324,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 55.048,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2,641.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 52,404,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 3,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 55.048,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.67 ADIYAMAN UNIVERSITY A) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.499.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 7,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.480.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 15,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.557,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 50,932,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 77.475,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,648,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 73,758,500 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 68,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 77.475,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.68 UNIVERSITY A) Military University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.621.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,050,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 727,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 152,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 46,280.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 53.830.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.768,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 50,052,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 53.830.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.69 (AMASIA UNIVERSITY) A) Amasya University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3,857,600 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 2,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.304,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 145,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 38,975,400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45.284,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,740,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 41,539,500 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 4,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45.284,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.70/KARAMANIAN MEHMETBY UNIVERSITY A) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.159.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 21,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,228,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1.557,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 38.141,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45.106,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,040.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 43.062,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 4,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45.106,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38,71/AUGUST UNIVERSITY OF IBRAHM A) Pain İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.856,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.693,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 287,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 34,722,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 44,568,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,614,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 42,934,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 44,568,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.72 (NINOP UNIVERSITY) a) Sinop University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.281.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,218,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,830.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 37,689,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45.018,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,421.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 43.597,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45.018,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.73 (CIRT UNIVERSITY) a) Siirt University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.763,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 205,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 35,708,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.226,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1.756,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 40,403,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 17,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.176,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38,74/NIVIEW UNIVERSITY A) Nevşehir University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.263,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,268,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.145,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 38,953,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 49,629000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,244,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 47,360,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 25,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 49,629000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.75 (AGENT UNIVERSITY) A) Karabük University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.508,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 170.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3,654.600 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,140.400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 56,097,800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 68,571.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,704,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 64,867,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 68,571.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.76/ CHURCH SEVEN SEARCH UNIVERSITY A) Church University of December 7th 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.621.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 22,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 999.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.287,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 36,357,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43.286,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,602,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 41,620.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 64,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43.286,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.77/CHANGRI KARATEKIN UNIVERSITY A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 19,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 365,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 44,171,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 53,958,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,329000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Influences With Funds and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 05 Other Incomes 38,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 53,958,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.78/ ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF KORUH A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.99,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 17,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 356,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 36,310.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.002,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1.498,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 40,489.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 15,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.002,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.79 (PEOPLE UNIVERSITY) A) Bilecik University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4,886,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 21,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 475,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 41,239000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 48,421,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.762,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 45,655,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 4,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 48,421,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.80/BITIS EREN UNIVERSE a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.679.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,610.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 278,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 35.574,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.141,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 909.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 41,226,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 6,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.141,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.81 (CIRCLE UNIVERSITY) A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,300,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 358,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 45,656,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 51.544,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 3,211.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 48,321.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 12,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 51.544,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38,82/ OSMANY SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY A) Osmaniye Korkuş University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.411.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1.296,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,280.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 34,257,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45,254,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2.696,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 42,558,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 45,254,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.83 (PEOPLE UNIVERSE OF THE BING a) Bingol University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.085,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 43.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,817,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 377,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 39.326,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 46.648,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 827,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 45,821,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 46.648,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.84 (MUSIC ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY) A) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5,019.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 60,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.205,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 440,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 39.927,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 47,651.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,035,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 46.616,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 47,651.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.85/ MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.910,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 27,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 402,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 36,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43,679000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,062,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 42,607,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained . TOPLAM 43,679000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.86 (BATMAN UNIVERSITY) A) Batman University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.275,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 94,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 381,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 33.515,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.065,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.235,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 40,800,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 30,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 42.065,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.87/ ARDAHAN UNIVERSE a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.382,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,300,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 30,104,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 35.036,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 960,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 34,069,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 7,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 35.036,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.88 (BARTIN UNIVERSITY) a) Bartın University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.880.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 53.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,702,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 33,580,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 40.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,517,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 38,693,200 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5,300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 40.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.89/ BAYBURT UNIVERSITY a) Bayburt University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.162,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 365,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 29.665,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 35.352,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,151.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 34,201,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 35.352,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.90.. UNIVERSE UNIVERSE A) Gümühane University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.460.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defence Services 16,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 383,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 45,960.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 54.020,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1,709,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 52,311.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 54.020,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. THE UNIVERSITY OF THE RIGHTS OF 38,91 A) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.243,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,366,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 92,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 36,167,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43,868,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 453,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 43,415,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43,868,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.92/ EVIL UNIVERSE A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.405,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 49,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 874.300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 280.900 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 32,514,800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 37.124,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 1.037,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 36,087,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 37.124,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.93/ SYRNAK UNIVERSE a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.859.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 805,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 17,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 32,155,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 38.017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 217,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 37,800,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 38.017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.94 (TUNCEL UNIVERSITY) a) Tunceli University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.818.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 71,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,851.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 36,271,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43.462,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 408,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 43,054,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43.462,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.95 (YALOVA UNIVERSITY) A) Yalova University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.672,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 22.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 448,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 34,812,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 38.955,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 852,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 38,057,500 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 45,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 38.955,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.96 (Turkish German UNIVERSITY) a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.213.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 15,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 121,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 13.323.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 16.272,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 45,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 16,227,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 16.272,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.97/YILM BEYZIT UNIVERSITY A) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4,040.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 13,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 680,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 180,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 17.820,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 22.743.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes 22,73,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 22.743.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.98 (BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY) a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,461.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 293,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 13.199,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,653,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 35,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 15,618,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,653,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.99/STANBUL UNIVERSITY OF THE MEDITION a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.153,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 300,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 241,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 11.680.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 102,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 15,263,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 9,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,374,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38,100, UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE VICTIM a) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 2.358,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 136,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 17.302,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 20.146,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 129,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 20,011.000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 6,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 20.146,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38,101/KONIA UNIVERSITY a) Konya University Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,386,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 270.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 13.322,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,498,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 104,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 15,393,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,498,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38,102, U.S.U.ULAH GÜL UNIVERSITY a) Kayseri Abdullah Gul University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 3.192,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 25,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 114,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 14.526.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 18.458,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 18.438,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 18.458,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 38.103/ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,310.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 92,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 14.409.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 16,412,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 16,332,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 80,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 16,412,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of universities' central management budgets were adopted in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the university's final accounts will be transferred to the departments: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
