tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Adıyaman MP Mohammed Murtaza Eğyük, who wanted to address October 26th as World Day of Patient Rights, is the first word off the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Catcher.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I've made a promise to the esteemed lawmakers on Patient Rights Day. We come from a highly sensitive tradition of patient rights. In our history, a hospital called a bimart and a medicine room produced flower gardens, played music, performed special feeding programs. Hospitals provided not only free services but also pocket money and travel allowance. In that sense, patient rights is no stranger to us. Everyone in our constitution has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. According to the principle, patient rights regulations were published and active studies were launched in 2003 in order for the regulation to become operational. Precious lawmakers have rights such as the right to use health care, information and information, the right to choose the health institution and its staff, the right to privacy, medical innovations, the right to meet their religious rights, complaint and compensation, which aims to the patient's benefit, not to be harmed, to receive autonomy, and to receive proper health care. Many studies have been carried out to ensure maximum compensation for these rights. First of all, the Department of Health has established a sick rights branch within our health department for institutionalization of patient rights practices, and in all hospitals, patient rights units have been violated. In addition to regulations, studies have been carried out for patients and health workers to study and be aware of their health care rights. It's important to say that these studies give you the benefit of the doubt. As a matter of fact, in 2004, the number of applications for patient rights units was around 35,000, while in 2010 the number rose to 140,000. In total, from 2004 to 2010, 433,000 applications were found at 433,000 applications and 86,000 applications were evaluated on the boards of patient rights. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as we have seen in the latest Van earthquake, health workers continue their duties with sacrifice, sacrifice, and all kinds of negative circumstances. For this reason, the right to protect health workers' rights, provide work safety and improve conditions should be seen as a surrender. Patient rights and health care should be considered an area where the issue of rights and safety of health workers should be addressed. Hospital infections, injuries related to business accidents, physical abuse, are a series of incidents from time to time. For an effective health care presentation, it is vital that health workers feel secure. Dear lawmakers, a strong society has made a major and historical transformation by providing quality and access to services in the healthcare area of the EC PARTY with its primary goal to create with a healthy society. At one time, those who had no money were held hostage in hospitals, those who could not be imagined today based on healthcare policy and human-focused service in the health care sector, which had become an ordeal of industrial lines from the polyclinic tail to the pharmaceutical tails. The Change in Health Programme has reached 73 per cent of citizens' satisfaction by 39 per cent. Turkey, where Fert and community health are protected at the highest level, provides the quickest and most effective solution to health problems. Further than modern-day patient rights standards, hospitals have been built at the comfort of a five-star hotel, and our health institutions have been equipped with the latest technology, and specialists have been delivered to the most remote corners of the doctor. During the mastery period, I hope that we will meet new services for health care and health care clients and health workers, with the understanding of zero problems in health care, and I wish you all a healthy day.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0003par0017	Thank you, Mr. Güyük. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu who wants to talk about issues related to pedestrianism in Osmaniye province. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0004par0022	Mr. President, I salute all of you, respected MPs of the Turkish nation. First of all, I pray to Almighty God that the beauty of the Feast of Sacrifice, which we will realize next weekend, is permanent. I'm here today to inform you and draw your attention to something that has been going on for many years as an important problem for many of our provinces and citizens, except the country's agenda. One of the elements that Turkish culture retains after its transition from nomadic life is the phenomenon we call yayla culture or legislature. Tyranny is a traditional phenomenon that Turkish people have applied to get away from heat, humidity and mosquitoes by changing quality over time, which has been ongoing since the past. Recently, the influence of global warming has been particularly necessary in the Mediterranean climate belt, as well as in traditionality. In the summer, the overwhelming temperatures lead our people to the plateaus, which have a cooler and drier atmosphere. One of the important reasons for this need is the desire to live in good health. All of these factors are increasing demand for plateaus that have already been built on narrow and forest terrain, which naturally increase pressure on forest areas. As a matter of fact, pedestrianism, without healthy legislation, is the subject of an unscheduled, unhealthy, even illegal settlement. In our provinces, including Osmaniye, Adana, Mersin, Antalya, Mughla, and the Black Sea Region, there are tens of thousands of bows and bows. In hot summer, hundreds of thousands of people live on these plateaus, and most of the dwellings are against property law, outside of zoning legislation and unique to environmental health. In Osmaniye, many of the forests used by our people have homes in many lands such as Zorkun, Fenk, Olukbaşı, Çaluk, Haraz; Bağdaş, Pekdaş, Almacık, Maksutoğlu; Smoky, Hogdu, Mezla; in Hasanbeyli district, more than 20,000 bows. In these plateaus, services such as health clinics, mosques, police stations, and staff were employed by public companies to provide asphalt roads to meet the need of the dense population, although legislation does not allow it. This construction, which has arisen in 150, 160 years, is now causing serious problems between the Law of the Forest and the Police and the citizens. The forest police and the gendarme report to the judicial authorities in accordance with the 17th Article of the Law of the Forest, and the judicial authorities punish the citizen's occupation with a fine of between £1,000 and $36,000. It is not economically possible, even if we want to destroy and destroy these structures that are out of order. There's not enough money for this job, there's not enough work machines, there's no room for debris to come out. Besides, the forest service does not complain from our citizens who use the forest as a crosswalk on the forest grounds. It is expressed by the workers of the forest that citizens who built their homes in the forest have kept the forest very well. Then what needs to be done, I think, is that by recording these places that are being used as unplanned and unlawful, you can contribute to the life of your bow culture as well as to provide financial support for our forestry by the Supreme Assembly. A campaign, including press organizations and barons, has been launched and has been signed tens of thousands of signatures under the leadership of an NGO TUMSIAD to resolve this problem. These signatures will be presented to our High Council in November. It is our duty, as representatives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and of the nation, to open up a legacy that has been moved from the past to today, such as the crossbow culture, to open up our forest existence to tourist facilities, no harm done, to use the land of the nation within the legal framework of the nation's use. That way, we can save our people from the unplanned, uninhabited settlements and an important problem. With these thoughts and feelings, I congratulate you all on the blessed Eid of the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Samsun MP Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan. Here you go, Mr. Kalkavan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0006par0041	Dear President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute the High Council and you, my fellow congressmen. I'd like to announce to you how our citizens were transferred to the private sector and the details of this irresponsibility outside the agenda when they were aired out of their own cities. Before March 2005, citizens who wanted to get out of the airports of the cities where we were in the air were flying directly or in Istanbul, making all their exit procedures from their own provinces and going abroad. On March 27, 2005, the decisions made by the National Civil Aviation Security Board at their 13th, 14 and 15th meeting were forced to conduct customs and police operations in Istanbul, although citizens were able to deliver their luggage from the provinces where they were located. Before March 2005, he was able to shop freely at free shops in the province where he was a passenger, and he handled all the controls and baggage transactions in his field without being put on hold and began a comfortable journey. Now, in Istanbul, the police, where about 10,000 or 15,000 people enter and exit each day, suffer in customs queues, and are subjected to minutes of waiting in front of the cashiers of the free shop where they shop. Dear lawmakers, you will say: "When there are so many problems in the country, can we talk about them in this economic crisis? " Now, let me explain to you the importance of this: there used to be a five-euro tax on the airline's fare when your own county used to travel abroad from the airport. And then the airline gave the land tax to the state air squares, so it went into the government's treasury. Now at the beginning of this name, this government institution, which is the word, has moved us to the private sector, which operates the Istanbul airport for 11 euros per person, by forcing us to do it here because we have little time. There are nineteen airports in our country that are actually open to international in-and-outs. Istanbul Ataturk, İstanbul Sabiha Gökçen, Ankara Esenboğa, İzmir Adnan Menderes external lines, Dalaman foreign lines and two airports in Antalya have been privatised and the businesses are transferred to the private sector. The National Civil Aviation Security Board has done this to this private sector with the signature of 9 zats. The government's field taxes have been transferred to these airports, which have been privatized, while our 12 airports are available as personnel and infrastructure. I leave it to you and our people to do the accounting of this successor to Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Antalya and Dalaman airports, where 10,000 locals and foreign passengers leave each day, and nine others who have signed this decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the meantime, let me tell you that operations in airports in 12 other counties, especially Samsun Wednesday, are no different from procedures at 7 airports that have been privatized. Today's pilgrimages are the best example of this. In the past, this sacred journey from our province is being moved to Istanbul and Ankara airports. The private sector took these creamy airports, but today their hands are still in the pockets of our people, and therefore our government. I want to ask them here: Why don't you want Van Ferit Melen Airport? You're not interested in Tekirdağ Çoran Airport? Why don't you want to run Isparta Airport? My compliments to Samsun Airport, which is now on the agenda of privatisation, and to Cappadocia Airport, as well as to the concern that this will happen.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Kalkavan. Health Minister Recep Akdağ will respond to non-responsive talks. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0008par0053	Thank you, my dear President. I pay my respects to all the esteemed members of the House, as it is the Day of Patient Rights. In honor of Patient Rights Day, please welcome Mr. Murtaza Küyük. It's a day we'll never be willing to let go of the truth. When we talk about patient rights, we talk about a person's highest law as an individual, we talk about one of the most important rights, because health care can't be postponed, needs are the services that each individual has to have access to, the rights that each individual has to get, and all of them have to get. So in improving health care, the subject of patient rights is one of the key points of reference. As you all know, for nine years, we, the AK PARTY governments, have made an important transformation in health, and we have implemented the Change in Health Programme. We have a basic moral understanding within the framework of this program. This moral understanding is the understanding that every individual, every person living in the country, has a sacred right to health, and that the system must be organized accordingly to achieve that right. Each individual, whether poor or rich, lives in the country, lives in the city, has to have the right to health care, and should be able to obtain that right of health financially, without risking paying from his pocket. This right is the most important of our patients' rights. We believe we've done it in our country, largely. Therefore, improvements in health care services have brought us to a point where expectations have increased. Expectations moved to the next level and changed direction. Before the Change in Health Programme, we discuss how the patient's access to the doctor's appointment and satisfaction in this matter will be reached today, while the valuable MPs discuss the patient's queues. Instead of access to health care, we're discussing the safety of the patient and the employee. We've put the amount of drug spending and contributions on the agenda instead of the problems of patients waiting in line for medicine. Instead of being held hostage for lack of money, we're discussing social security coverage, general health insurance. We're talking about what new vaccines we're going to add to our inoculation calendar instead of the insurmountable babies. Instead of ambulance services that were never delivered to the countryside, we're talking about the number of planes in our air ambulances. We're giving a patient-oriented, participating health care today because we've put institutional concerns aside from the Health Transformation Programme, and we believe that this is not a blessing for the citizens, but a rights delivery. In this context, we know that patient rights practices are particularly important. In fact, patient rights -- I've just tried to express -- are a reflection of human rights in health. Therefore, we believe that the roles of the patients and relatives who know their rights in providing health care are extremely important. When we started the mission, there was a regulation on this issue in '98. I'd like to introduce you to the Ministry officials who have drawn up this regulation on those dates. However, the other infrastructure needed to implement these regulations was not prepared, there was no detailed study. We've drawn up proper guidelines for these regulations, we've started practices, and for the first time we've formed patient rights units and patient rights boards. Today -- thank God -- there are patients' rights units in all health care hospitals and oral dental care, almost 1,000 health care agencies. These patient rights units are working very effectively, and there's participation in patient rights units from the county general council, and they're not only being used as the hospital's own unit. And, as some claim, applications to these units, from time to time, complaints, are actually providing us with suggestions for improving health care. I always find it useful to remind you of a point I make. These units are more of a problem-solving unit. The appeals for complaints are in the 2nd place, and the results tell us. In 2010, the problems solved in patient rights units pointed to 120,000 cases, while the number of valuable lawmakers who went to the council was around 20,000, due to the complaint. So compared to the cases that have been solved in place, one file has been filed, and the number of cases that go to the board is one-sixth of the other. As you can see, 85 percent of the applications are resolved properly. The first goal here is to solve the citizen's problem. Another important function of patient rights is that citizens submit their recommendations to the administration through the Board of Patient Rights. I'd like to give you a few examples of these suggestions, if I may. In fact, the Transformation Programme, which means changing a macro-level system, is an important example of how the health programme also understands the issue at points that are more microscale when it comes to contacting citizens. For example, a citizen is applying to the Patient's Rights Unit to replace his worn-out scrubs. Another citizen is applying for IV hangers in the toilets, IV hangers in the toilets. Another citizen recommends that an officer be found in the parking lot in the hospital where he is. Another suggests a landscaping arrangement of the hospital garden, and another one recommends a dietary meal for diet patients. While one of our patients recommends a banister on the stairs, another patient recommends a private dressing room during an X-ray. Thus, these feedbacks have given us huge clues to improving the system so far. Of course, feedback and assessment of the system have serious benefits, and in our own system, we are able to evaluate it greatly. We also practice patient rights training in these units. Patients have learned that they have the right to information, consent, privacy, dignity, education at schools and public education centres. We also give periodic training to health workers who work in hospitals. In this regard, we teach patient rights to about 2 million people a year, while we teach patient rights to 300,000 health workers. The right to choose a physician from the most basic patient rights applies to all of our health department hospitals. Respected President, the esteemed lawmakers serve citizens today with over 31,000 experts in the Ministry of Health hospitals in Turkey, without any practice, without ties to a private hospital outside, and we, as citizens, have the right to choose these experts. With an app that we've started last year, we've also begun to have the opportunity to make phone calls from hospitals and make real appointments with real people. Especially by choosing the hospital we want, we now have an average of 80,000 people on average making appointments in the central dating system. You haven't heard wrong, 80 thousand people receive this service daily in Turkey. In the next six months, we estimate that about 400,000 people who have applied to health department hospitals, other than emergency clinics, will be able to make such appointments. About 4,000 people will work in this system, and the system will make it even easier for our citizen to choose his physician. We trained specifically for security guards. We felt such a need in the process. In these trainings, we have trained nearly 12,000 security guards on the basic rules of communication with the security guard, the patient and the relative, the special security guard and the patient. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd also like to discuss patient safety and employee rights on a day we're talking about patient rights, because we can't distinguish between these two. The more important our patients are to us, the more our heads are to us, the more important the health workers who serve our patients are to us. Our esteemed congressman has expressed that the last Van earthquake, the way health workers carried out their duties, was above all recognition. Our brothers in the National Medical Rescue team, my valued colleagues, colleagues working in 112 ambulance services, our valued colleagues working in hospitals, working in intensive care, operating in O.R.s, working in the field, working for public health, and their support workers have actually succeeded in an operation that the entire world has appreciated. For this, I thank you once again all health workers, especially my dear brothers and sisters, who have carried out this assignment in Van. I've done this thank you many times on various occasions. They're people who kiss their foreheads, kiss their hands. The nameless heroes of this country. In the Van earthquake, more than 2,500 of the valued health workers served outside Van province by reaching Van, and they did a truly excellent job. We're proud of them. Not only in Turkey, valued lawmakers, but in many parts of the world, our Ministry of Health's medical rescue teams have become world-appreciated teams. A World Health Organization report published this year expressed once again how ready the disaster was for both the Ministry of Health and their teams for political stability, both technically and in terms of infrastructure, and also for the guiding character of Turkey's feature for other countries. So, once again, I would like to express my appreciation to these valued health workers. Of course, it is a matter of utmost importance that we protect the rights of employees, ensure work safety and improve their conditions. Hospital infections, injuries related to job accidents, negativeities such as psychological, verbal or physical abuse, are events that we experience from time to time. I would like to express to our nation and to our health workers that we will show zero tolerance, that we will never tolerate them, that we will never tolerate them in the presence of our great House. In our Ministry of Health, we form committees for working security in all health institutions. We also developed a system that we call the "white code" system in order to control the violence against employees and to ensure that the action is dealt with correctly and on time. In this system, inspired by the white scrubs of health workers, we aim to ensure that all measures are met when any violent activity occurs against a health organization or a health worker. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, we have finally brought to public administration a very new practice in the legislation that we have prepared to establish the Health Ministry's organization law. In order to pursue the cases of healthcare workers in violent or similar situations -- as you know, they're the cases that the person pursues -- we've put a clause in our jurisdiction that will allow public health workers, health workers, to follow the cases of the Ministry of Health lawyers. So when health workers now have cases associated with the courts in the event of any kind of violence or any other kind of negativity, they will be able to pursue their cases directly by the Ministry of Health lawyers. And I'd like to express my happiness in a day's notice of patient rights. Let me put it this way. As the AK PARTY governments, we believe that in the EC PARTY, the next steps within the system, as a process, the development of patient and employee security should be an important goal, and we have identified it as a target for ourselves. Yes, access to services has increased, quality has increased, we've stopped being a country where citizens are destroyed because they pay for their illness, where they've become poor with catastrophic health expenses, but there's more work to be done in terms of patient and employee safety and quality. In the coming period, I hope, with you, with our great Council, we will try to achieve these things. I hereby ask all of our patients for immediate healing from Allah, and to all the health workers in this country, thank you again for the high-level health care, the selfless health care that they offer to our citizens along with the Change in Health Program. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0009par0073	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Seven of our congressmen have asked for a word. However, we agreed on this yesterday. We said we wouldn't make any promises during the extracurricular conversation. Mr. Vural, you have a request.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0010par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the 50th year of migration to Germany. I really want to thank all those who emigrated to Germany for work and provided their alimony there, and brought their investments and savings to Turkey, and all those who held the national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation there. In fact, for 50 years in Germany, they contributed greatly to both the German economy and the Turkish economy. I thank them. Unfortunately, they did not invite the German-Turkish Federation, which has been operating there since 1978, at the symposium held on the occasion of the 50th Year in Germany. While the federations established in 2004 are being invited, I am warning the Ministry of Foreign and Segregation by not inviting the German-Turkish Federation. Two of our deputies, who were asked to be sent there in this framework, have made their own decision not to go to Germany because of their segregation. This is no way to discriminate against foreign Turks. In this regard, I also warn Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. I'd like to call off these segregating-discriminating thoughts. In addition, at this symposium, unfortunately, the president of the symposium hearings is headed by the AKP's deputy leader, another deputy, but I still condemn the fact that other parties represented here are not present on such issues as this, which are discrimination and exclusive and antidemocratic. This is a matter for all of us. I'd like to make it clear that by politicizing it like this, I don't think it's appropriate to put discrimination and trial between these people.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0012par0086	Mr. President, two episodes...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0013par0087	Mr. President, I'm sorry, we wanted a word.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0011par0088	The presidency has a thesis, I'm having it read.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0012par0089	Mr. President, I have a question.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0011par0090	I've made a statement, Mr. Sakık.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0012par0091	Mr. President, we have questions, too, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0011par0092	No, I explained.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0012par0093	We have problems with our knowledge...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0014par0094	There's a question-answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0012par0095	So it's not fair for you to give the group's deputy presidents the privilege of not knowing us...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0015par0096	I don't know the privilege, sir, but the group knows the MPs, the Constitution and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0012par0097	But our province has problems. The Minister is here. We're in pain, we want to deliver. Be fair. We say, "We accept." So you promise them who you're afraid of.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0015par0098	Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 06/07/2011 and B. 01. 0. KKB. Our number 01-08-3-503. The appointment to the Ministry of Transport has been appointed to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications under Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey due to changes in its name and organization structure. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to our country's economic woes, the high expectations of inflation, the rising prices of gas, diesel every day, and its own problems pending solutions, our taxi driver, whose number is around 95,000, is trying to provide public service under difficult circumstances. Together with the families of taxi drivers, whose numbers are around 95,000, there are about 500,000 people. 500,000 of our people make a living with income from this profession. Although the profession seems to be difficult every day, the challenges of our drivers and their occupations reflect on all our citizens, causing unrest in the driver, citizen, and safety triangle. The taxi driver's tradesman has brought up his problems in the profession, but developments in his solution proposals have not been achieved. With a little attention from the government to the problems of our cabbie tradesman, occupational workers, citizens and law enforcement will achieve financial and spiritual gains. In our country, the application of punishment on the rear plate creates a lot of problems, with practice and all drivers being victimised, it appears that you received a traffic ticket at an unexpected moment, and due to the fact that you were not known when the punishment was imposed, punishments are paid by folding. The regulations must be made urgently to be narrowed down to drivers at any time they want. Cabbies have to be raised to a reasonable level due to the high premiums on the mandatory financial responsibility they're paying. The taxi driver's shop has put in years of premiums to retire from BUG-KUR, but a 10% social support bonus at the end of his retirement is already a victim of a pensioner who is already underpaid. This is a very important issue because it concerns all BUG-KUR pensioners. - In order to ensure the safety of lives and property in taxis, satellite car surveillance must be made mandatory in commercial taxis, and the necessary support must be provided for the shop. - Special vehicles' gas-resistant examinations and exhaust emissions are conducted every two years, while these examinations are conducted every year in commercial taxis. Therefore, taking half of the fees from the taxi driver's shop will relieve the tradesman at least a little bit and the public servant will not be wronged. Because the taxi driver's trade is expensive, he prefers not to drive around and find customers, and he prefers the parking taxi-stop system. Since this matter has been handed over to the Metropolitan municipalities, the demands for a parking taxi stop have been assessed by the Metropolitan Municipality. The presence of a representative from the trade agency on this subject is thought to be good for the taxi manager to submit his demands to the commission. - He wants to renew his vehicle in a short time so that public service taxi drivers can conduct their services healthier. In the meantime, it is important to offer low interest and longer-term credit opportunities, as well as low-interest and low-period loan opportunities for renovation of vehicles, or for private security division taxi purchases. It would be appropriate for citizens to become more active in the service offered to our citizens by the shopkeepers, to benefit better from the service, to receive fuel from commercial taxis at a more affordable price, not to receive UV and VAT tax. - The detection of pirated commercial vehicles, - Taking precautions on the training of a taxi driver's business in the tourist district. issues, It is one of the major problems of the taxi shop. As a result, Turkey's Federation of Drivers and Automobiles has discussed the problems of the taxi driver's business and has determined measures that must be taken important and urgent. With these solution proposals being implemented, our citizens will receive better services, while our tradesman will provide healthier, safer, and cheaper services. Therefore, in order to investigate and determine the conditions for our taxi trader's ability to provide services under better circumstances, the Constitution is 98. And 104th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. We respectfully submit to the opening of "Meclis Research" according to the clauses. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] [[Tunceli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 18) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 19) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 23) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 25) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 26) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The privatisation of security services has been a subject of intense debate around the world. Some of these discussions continue today. Our country has been one of the places where these discussions have been frequented. Recent figures on private security indicate that this issue will be reopened. The failure to resolve the problems of the private security sector leads to problems both economically and security. Therefore, there is a need for a research commission to investigate the problems of the private security sector, to bring the parties and experts together. In this context, our Constitution is 98 in order to identify problems in the private security sector and to explore the solutions to these problems. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Tunceli]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Gaziantep]] 8) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] 11) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Media Information General Directorate, 2.361 newspapers, 215 television stations and 951 radios are broadcast locally, with fewer local newspapers and televisions in our country than these official figures. Local media-release organizations are important for the public to hear different voices and to address the local demands of the community. The event has as much potential as national media agencies to strengthen and maintain our democracy. If national media media organs are the main vessels of communication in our country, our local media is the capillaries of our communication. Despite their importance and potential, the vast majority of local newspapers and televisions strive to continue their broadcast in financial difficulties, fighting for existence. Taking into account these facts, the 98th of the Constitution, the 104th and 105th of the TBM Institution of the Constitution, in order to investigate the problems of our local press-release organizations, and to address the existing problems. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamental research. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 22) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 25) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 26) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, Diyarbakır 7. Van MP Aysel Tuğluk and Mardin MP Ahmet Türk, dated 21/10/2011 and on the second report of Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan, dated 21/10/2011 and on Article 83/2011 and on Diyarbakır MP Leyla Zana, in which the public case was launched in 2011/198, was published in the article dated 21/10/2011. It's for your information.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0016par0298	What did they do, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0015par0299	The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting Thursday (November 3rd 2011), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of Interior. On 13 October 2011, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends (67 rows), the unsolved murders in JİTEM and the East/Southeast region, were taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the National Assembly of Turkey's Council for Research, the General Assembly's information. It has been suggested that Thursday 2011 will be read in presentations and held in the same dated combination of talks. Sırrı Sakık, MP for the Peace and Democracy Party group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0017par0313	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Before we get started on this -- Mr. Health Minister here -- I've asked for a 60, but for some reason, the President is a little, like, secretive about it. Whereas we are all here because we carry the fundamental problems of our country, the problems of our province. But please don't keep our voices down on this, let's get our thoughts to the government, let's get them to the authorities. Mr. Secretary, we have a serious complaint against the Forensic Medical Office, and we've spoken to the Minister of Justice before. Now, Mush is a far place from Malatya. These events happen almost every day: people are taken from there, or funerals, and brought all the way to Malatiah, and they are on the road for two days. We've been bringing this up for three years, four years. The Ministry of Justice has been telling us that we will establish the Forensic Medicine Foundation there. It has not been established until today and it is said that there are no doctors there. Every night, a funeral is sure to come to Malatya. We'd be very, very happy if you'd be sensitive about it. I'm sure you'll do just as well. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, we've been here before to invite Parliament to continue its work on these research proposals. Oh, we and sometimes the Republican People's Party have submitted parliamentary research motions on this matter. So there are serious accusations in the 1990s, even from the founding of the republic, about those who have died so far. So the record of this state is as black as tar against the socialists, against the Kurds. Let's look at them together. But even though we've submitted this motion several times, our motions have been rejected by a numerical majority of the AKP. We called out to you: 'There is not much of you in your term.' You have it in your time, but in the past, let's bring it out together. But you always refused. Loud and clear, at the time, yes, there were serious unsolved murders and life confirmed us. Recently, we have all watched the statements of the special task force defendants, Ayhan Karakın. At that time, we were confirmed by an exact life of how decisions were made by the National Security Council, how people were slaughtered. Why are we still stopping now? So those with uniforms and epaulettes came into the area and committed murder on behalf of the state. So they have blood on their hands. They came to my constituency in 1993. They killed in the triangle between the mush-Diyarbakir. They came to the town of Altınova, seven children, mother, father, Nasir Öğün... we had brought him to this stand before. The mother was pregnant. They burned 10 lives. It was the security forces that burned them, they had uniforms on their heads, and they were soldiers. They came right after him, they did operations on the same night in the village where I was born, and they burned five people alive in the past with ties to the National Peace Party. When we put this on the stand here in 1993, in Parliament, the ranks of MSP... the Welfare Party, I'm sorry. The MPs who were sitting at the time knew about them and were watching us with tears. We know about this, but we have our teacher's instructions, so don't bring these things up. They're coming around our necks. It's been a bloody time. Now we all have to look into it. Now, haven't we recently witnessed how these task force, these task force task force, all of us, have committed murder? We did. What are they saying? Sir, we were given instructions. • How did these instructions come about? These instructions have been decided by the National Security Council. We have the lists of people who were Prime Minister of that period, Cirller. He said these lists were coming to life every day, and one of them was Mehmet Agar, one of the ministers of that period, and they were saying, "We also know how the task force that killed Topal (Turkishman) in Istanbul has been released, and we all know that Mehmet Agar (Agar) is out there right now. Not only Mehmet Agar, but who are the political actors of that time? Iron. Who? Strawberries. They're all, yes, responsible for the process. At that time, they used a cruel policy against Kurds and slaughtered these people. He was killed that day, but what's happening today during your reign? There are mass arrests being made. In fact, a minister of yours came out and said: "Ya, what do you want?" I mean, you're not being thrown into acid wells, but you're being arrested, so logic is the same logic. There's no way for him to make peace without looking into it or confronting it. We should all go through this together, we should go through this. Look, our Republican MP Sezgin, who witnessed that period in Diyarbakir, knew about the incident, one-on-one lawyer, how 11 citizens were taken away and tied up, and Mehmet Salih was the head of it. The bones of 11 have been found in a village in Diyarbakır province many years later. Who did this? He was a brigade commander from Bolu, and he was clearly saying, and if I'm not mistaken right now, he writes at times in the daily Time. Now, how are you going to make peace in this country without you questioning such a murderer? And what did they do that based on? They did it with confidence in the uniform he was wearing. They massacred this people with the power of the government behind them, and they have blood on their hands, and their history is as dark as pitch black. So, if you really want to solve this problem, we have to go over it. So no party has the right to say that I can stand by on this. If he says that, he's really guilty of crimes against humanity. So we're clearly saying, we're naming them, and we're saying that we need a commission for them immediately, and you've repeatedly rejected the motions of us and the Republican People's Party to investigate the matter from 2007 to 2011. Let's start a new chapter today, and together we really believe that we can solve our problems by facing this process. So, what I'm telling you is not only in the region, but in my constituency, but in all parts of this country. So there's a nice saying that the horse is lost, the horse's voice is in his ear, it's an expression from the Circumstrians, and we still have the voice and the cry of our relatives who are lost in our ears. If we say we're human and we consider ourselves human, we all hear the cries of these painful families. Look, every Saturday in Istanbul, their mothers are there looking for their children. They've been looking for them for years. We have female friends among us. I mean, don't those mothers' cries bother your ears at all? Doesn't it bother the Prime Minister's ear at all? So, together, against these cries, we must now take appropriate steps by hearing the voice of our conscience. If we can get rid of this, we can be sure that we'll be very serious about the solution to the problem. So there's no way we can find a solution without facing it. That's why I'm inviting everyone to be responsible for this. I wish that all four groups of us, as a group, would vote in favour of this parliamentary research motion, because it's not just the BDP people's problem, it's not just the Kurds' problem; the problem is that everyone who opposes the system in this country is a victim. So it is the duty of Parliament to investigate those who have been victimised, murdered, and still not found by these perpetrators. I hope you'll vote positively for this motion. I wish everyone would think about it a little bit by putting their hands on their conscience. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0018par0327	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP. Mr. Kubat...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0019par0330	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Mr. BDP Group's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation into the unsolved murders. At first, we believe that all of the unsolved, obscure events, regardless of who they turn to, who they turn to, who they must be dealt with, who they must be dealt with, and who they must be satisfied with. Actually, we agree on that, but I'd like to point out that we disagree on how to proceed with these events. In the past, the chain of political killings, which began in 1990 at that time with the murder of Vedat Aydın. By 97, the country really has taken on a level of conscience and has been used as a basis for creating chaos and anarchy in society. In the past period, we have again had demands of our valued MPs, and in regard to them, our Assembly has established some commissions, and has worked at the point where such matters should be dealt with with with with with with with with with with real determination. It is also known that there are networks of murders in the past, using public power, with a sense of justice that the state and the judiciary have originally envisioned by putting aside what the government and the judiciary should do.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0020par0334	How dare you call this justice!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0019par0335	We have the Human Rights Commission, which currently represents all of our political parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and in these areas, a deep, truly satisfying investigation is also part of this commission's basic mandate. The parliamentary research commission, as it is known, is a four-month commission. According to one figure, 17,000 was released in the earlier days of research by a scientist, with a total unknown number of 2.781 from 1984 to 2004. Of course, it's controversial, but it doesn't change the fact that a state that has guaranteed the sanctity of its right to live, even if it were a single unsolved one, has to go to the authorities and ask for their account.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0021par0337	Why do you object?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0019par0338	Congressmans, unsolved murders are fundamentally political killings, its purpose is to create an environment of anarchy and chaos, and most of the time when there was a political vacuum, they found pleasure, they gained mobility at that time. The main element of the struggle is a functioning but fast-working, fair judicial mechanism, a stable and stable political authority, two fundamental factors at the point where these issues should be addressed. Inside or outside the state, I've just told you, the networks that are responsible for these murders and they're responsible for the fight against terrorism...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0021par0339	Anyone who served at that time should be tried.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0019par0340	...or neutralize the current political power, wear it down, even destroy it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0021par0341	Even if they're congressmen.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0019par0342	...or that these murders were committed as a result of the internal reckoning, which means that these are the basic facts.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0022par0343	Mr. Mehmet, it's a crime against humanity.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0019par0344	That's right, it's a crime against humanity, you're quite right, Congressman, that's exactly what we see.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0023par0345	Why do you object?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0019par0346	The presence of a stable and stable political authority on this issue from 2002, its presence in office, its distance towards democratisation at the point where Turkey is truly a state of law, and its effective and fast-working judicial mechanism is now determined on these events.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0024par0347	Do you really believe that?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0025par0348	Now we'll have a vote soon, see if you'll vote.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0024par0349	Which one have you been after so far? Which one did you solve?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0026par0350	Mr. Sakık, you've said enough, please, don't interfere, so don't, Mr. Kaplan will speak.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0351	Dear lawmakers, today, we all know that a part of the southeast has several confessions from retired civil servants who have served in the past.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0028par0352	Some of them are still lawmakers.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0353	At the time, there were those who said it was a state policy. The judicial mechanism is serious about these things. In fact, there were excavations dug up in the custody of prosecutors at the request of the defendants, the plaintiffs, just to clarify these murders. You shouldn't underestimate them. In the past, the main demand of those in charge of this matter was that, in the past, Mr. Pervin Buldan, I also looked at the transcripts of the speech that he had made in the House in the past, which he said is very rightly: that there should also be found and brought to justice by state officials, the responsible, who did not go after these murders, who neglected their duties with those in charge. That's right, that's what it should be, because the main mission of the House is to investigate these issues, and if the criminal element has been identified, it's to report to the prosecutor's office, sort of like a preliminary examination. I've made a method that might be useful to us in this regard, and I've basically expressed the need to do these work under the roof of the Human Rights Commission. We're totally for investigation, but the Human Rights Commission...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0029par0355	If you're a fan, you'll take it. It's the same thing! I've been sick and tired of hearing these words for five years.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0356	...for example, last semester, the murder of a 100-three-year-old son of your mother, Berfu, who was murdered after September 12th, was brought to light.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0030par0357	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0358	Gene, the Human Rights Commission on the disappearance of one of our citizens in the cyclares has been made concrete by subcommittees on the basis of such incidents. So, we...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0031par0359	We're talking about 17,000 unsubs.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0360	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is really not a matter of polemics.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0032par0361	It's been four years or four years! You just got here, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0362	I sincerely believe that some of the defendants in the Silivri trials today...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0032par0363	You've been talking for four years!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0033par0364	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0365	...when you read from the press, the judgment...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0032par0367	There's no such thing as insincerity, Mayor. The word's different, the job's different. When they go out, they behave, and when they come to the council, they vote no.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0368	It states that the judiciary stands firm on these issues and that it continues the process...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0034par0369	Thank you, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0027par0370	I offer you respect.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0035par0372	If you have a heart, you will say yes. You're not going to talk outside, you're going to talk here.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0034par0373	The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal in favour of Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0036par0375	Mr. President, we have repeatedly submitted motions to investigate in unsolved murders as the Party of Peace and Democracy, and I think it is necessary for all organised networks under the pretext of murder to be clear, to be questioned from September 12 through 12th to March, from September 12th to today, from Turkey, to the murder of JİTEM, from Ape Musa, MPs, gangs, coupgers, illegals, and terrorists, to remember the fact that thousands of active killings had been committed by our country on the day. Take a good look at this, don't let your memories, your memories, be erased like a computer CD. Not far from now, 15 years ago, there was an accident of silence in 96. Under it all came the murders of gangs, coups, politicians, bureaucrats, judicial labor troops. It's a report. This report means something terrible. The prime ministers of that period were able to get their investigators to write a report like this. Later in the coalition, the Commission for Unknown Murders was established in the Erbakan period in parliament, and you can see how the killings have fallen to an extended level of sergeants, how the white Renaults have committed murder, how there have been 17,000 unsolved murders, how organizations like Hezbollah have been used, how the missing weapons have been used, how the Batman Governor has not yet been identified, where he has taken those weapons on his own. Well, if this accident hadn't happened in 1996 and this report didn't have documented links to the murder, it would have proved that it was the period when determined murders on the National Security Council, Kurdish business lists were published, and applications were adopted in Diyarbakır, Batman, on the days when they were killed in Batman, were put on the shelf, and in a state of emergency, between the European Court of Human Rights, 93-97, there was no law in Turkey. At that time, these murder suspects were dealing with terror. They sought refuge in the land, people, in the literature of Sakarya, and committed these murders. If the government is expressing its determination today, why do we object to the investigation of unsolved murders, which we find hard to understand? Today, the names of those who were at the top of the state's intelligence reports are in the red newsletters, the unsolved murders of that period, the criminal organization networks, the relations of casinos, the traffickers, the officers carrying drugs with martyr funerals, the bureaucrats... look, the people who were at the top of the state's intelligence reports. Now, one period, Turkey, which cannot illuminate any of this dark period, can not establish its own democracy, nor can it shape a new constitution on that basis, my friends. Notice how Spain was dealt with by the GAL gangs. There were judges like Baltasar Garzon, who taught my Home Secretary of the Interior, and trained the people to incite rebellion, as he discovered how the government had fed the officers of the networks who had committed murder from the interior minister to the chief of police, from the covered grant one by one. I'm inviting the Home Secretary on this stand, if you don't get these documents out in 24 hours, and if you don't put this in, if you don't remove your mufter, if you don't resign, you're not human. You're no better than the silent mob, the people who protect and protect him. You're the TCK prosecutor? You have a document? Did you listen?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0037par0382	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0036par0383	You have papers? What document are you going out on? In the 21st century, we took professors, professors, professors, and one of a thousand of them, as if insulting all professors, in the face of an accusation that even his lawyer couldn't reach.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0038par0384	Mr. President, there is no government. What kind of Parliament is that? There's no government there. Where is the government? Let the government sit down. What's he doing there?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0036par0385	Now, friends, dealing with unsolved murders is legal, human rights, democracy, independent justice. Can you tell me how different you and your silencers are if you place independent justice, private security courts in place of DGM, in place of martial law courts, in place of emancipation courts, with prosecutors you've appointed, with judges you've appointed for many years, with lawmakers, intellectuals, writers, just like during the era of silence? There was no law in silence, and now there is no law. There was no judgment in silence, and there is no judgment now. In silence, there was a wiretap, and now there is a wiretap. There was a secret investigator in silence, and now there is one. There was a torturer in silence, and now there is one. What's changed, guys? What's changed? What is the conscience of keeping people inside without a trial for three years, what is humanity, what is justice, what is law? You've turned this country into an empire of fear. Not only did you turn this country into an empire of fear, but you put one of the people of this country in charge of everyone, like a Susturbarian, with a gun. What are you afraid of here? Because you can't investigate. If you look at this, you'll look at this photograph, and you'll see a few of it on very important missions within yourself. If you look into it, you'll see the perpetrators in the AK PARTY. If you investigate, you'll find the perpetrators inside your government. If you look into it, you'll find it in your bureaucrats.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0039par0387	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0036par0388	You don't have the heart for it. You don't have the guts. That's why you've got a KCK, you let Kurdish intellectuals in, your politicians in, your chosen ones in. You got a sledgehammer, Ergenekon, where you don't get a fair trial and you mess it up. Eight members of this House have been in prison for three years, and you can't express any will here about eight MPs. If there is no justice, no law, no conscience, no life at the head of the most fundamental rights and freedoms, no basic rights and freedoms; there is no democracy; there is death, and there is death of humanity, and there is a danger that you will bring to this country, the way of governance is more autocratic than the presidential style of padishah, and there is no other than that, and there is no other than that, no one has a right to live in this country.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0040par0389	And you're a teenager.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0036par0390	The hand of Ape Moses is upon you, and the hand of an intellectual like Ape Moses is upon you, and the hand of a wise man is upon you. You object to investigating his killers. He killed a member of this House, the Silencers... look, they killed Mehmet Sincar. You object to the investigation of the people who killed the member of this House. Come, come together against these unlawfulities against the killings, all together, let go of the literature of the city, the nation, the Sakaryah. Stop attacking human rights in the name of anti-terrorism. Against the law, against the law, let's act together. It takes courage, courage, faith, determination. If you can't investigate it, everything you have is a story together. You keep putting him to sleep with the story, but you'll get the bill and it'll be too heavy...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0041par0392	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0036par0393	...when he judges you, you won't find anyone to save you from the International Criminal Tribunal, and your crime will be a crime of humanity...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0041par0394	Mr. Kaplan, please... please leave the bench.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0036par0395	...the crime of genocide, the people will be standing in front of you. I invite you all on your conscience. Yours truly.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0042par0399	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0402	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Today, our political parties have three groups of proposals. The aim of group proposals is to design the issues on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Every day, we meet here to discuss issues that are called the red agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which are on our desks, as the lawmakers call them. As I was trying to say yesterday, political group presidents bring up talks on Mondays with telephone consultations that will be discussed within the week. As part of Tuesday's meeting, there was an agreement made by our members of the group, who were on our agenda yesterday and today to remove international contracts, but unfortunately, due to the group proposal of a political party yesterday and the negatives we experienced on Tuesday, we also had the hours of work as a result of the abuse of rights stemming from the Civil Charter, in order to prevent the Grand National Assembly from working. We did this to get international contracts between 00 and waiting. Look, we're about to discuss the group proposal for the nationalist Action Party's research commission to investigate issues related to Turks living abroad, and then after that, or before that, we're going to discuss motions for the formation of the Republican People's Party's research commission on the same issue, regarding the unsolved unknowns, whether or not to be accepted. Dear friends, the point here is to change the agenda. If the political party groups say in their weekly talks, as a result of consultation with the group's representatives, that we should bring this up, our fellow lawmakers are paying attention here, while the opposition chiefs of the group are under the roof of the ruling group, while the ruling group's MPs are under the parliament's roof, while the ruling group's deputy leaders are under the roof of the opposition, and you're witnessing that they have the opportunity to change the agenda of that day. These are issues to be discussed, discussed. Yesterday, the Turkish Grand National Assembly valued lawmakers voted on the group proposal for the EC PARTY Group's working hours and programme. We have a schedule to do until January 5th, so unless it's an extraordinary job, it's 3:00 a.m. on Tuesdays. 00, 2400-23 on the other days. We'll work at 00. Look, the only party that has nothing to go on with the unsub is the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0044par0410	Then you'll have to vote yes. No running away like that.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0411	So far, there are various numbers, various expressions. Some say 17 grand, some say 3,000.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0045par0412	One man, three thousand, one man...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0413	From the founding of the Republic, there are those who claim to be the perpetrators.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0046par0414	It was investigated during the Erbakan period. What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0415	But especially since 1970, we all know that there are criminals who claim to have committed unsolved crimes against scientists, journalists, ruling leaders of society in the name of the state. Today, you will find that those who are trying to prevent Turkey's elected Parliament from running the Sledgehammer's case are being tried, and if you examine what the transcripts of this indictment are, you will have goosebumps. The establishment of the research commission on unknowns... you can see when you open the Civil Charter, the working period is fixed, the term of the research commissions in Article 105 is three months. If the deadline is short, he'll request another month from the Parliamentary Presidency, give him an additional month if the Parliament approves. These issues have been discussed again in the past period. We said that we can't do that in this three-month period. And if you take this from the ancients, you take it from the past, you make it impossible, you bring it to a point where you can't get to the point where you can't get to the goal of the investigation commission on the unsolved murders, instead of getting to the goal, you're going to make those people's consciences uncomfortable, they're going to be uncomfortable, they're not going to get any results. During our time in power... in the days before the AK PARTI power, commissions have been set up for the unsolved, but no results have been taken. Dear friends have visited relatives, families, political parties, who have been victims of unsolved murders in this area since 1970. One of our group presidents, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, now Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, has listened to the delegations. Let's pick a specific time for what they're doing about them, pick a particular event, and let Turkey's National Assembly do what it can in a limited amount of time. We looked at it, it's not relevant, and we've agreed that the subcommittee for the unsolved murders that could be working on the Human Rights Commission during the past period is the consensus of our political parties. Now, dear friends, the unsolved murders were a bad memory of this country, and until 2002, the state of the Republic of Turkey would be a country remembered for unsolved murders, tortures, and lawmakers who went abroad would have difficulty defending this issue. They would go down with their heads down, because there was no answer, no opportunity, no opportunity to investigate, no opportunity. But since 2002, only the part about the murder of Professor Dr. Nihat Hablemitoglu...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0047par0421	There's 116, 116...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0422	Only Professor Dr. Nihat...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0047par0423	There are 116 of them!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0424	He may have been the ones who killed the PKK. They may have been killed with the support of the PKK, the ACK.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0047par0425	Here's the list!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0048par0426	Look at the human rights reports!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0427	Look, the congressman who's just been talking to us, while he's subjecting us to criminal accounting...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0049par0428	In your time, Aydın Erdem was an unknown...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0429	From 1984 to here, where will it fit when 40,000 of our people lost their lives, and ten days before that, they were killed in the belly with their baby, killing and slaughtering their mother and their families?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0050par0430	Come on, you want to dig into all the facts? Let's explore all the facts. Are you in? Do you have that heart?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0431	Look, in this country, if around 11,000 police officers were killed, security forces were killed, you have to pay for it, you have to pay for it, you have to pay for it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0050par0432	Let's set up a truth commission, let's judge everyone.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0433	What I'm saying is that the motions you're bringing in right now, all the political parties, that we're making, that we're changing the agenda, that we're not talking about anything after the agenda...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0051par0434	You have an agenda?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0435	If you read it, it is a statement that if you read the Peace Democratic Party, the Republican People's Party's group proposal, if you speak, the motions for the establishment of the research commission will be discussed and the agenda will continue this way. It's, frankly, cheating.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0052par0436	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0437	We talk, we get together with political parties...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0053par0438	Shame on you! I mean, your heart won't help!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0054par0439	Shut up! We listened to you, so shut up!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0043par0440	...in that frame, we say: "Let's draw boundaries on the subject of unsolved murders, and in the Human Rights Commission..."
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0053par0441	I mean, it's rude, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0054par0442	Shut up! We listened to you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0055par0443	Please excuse me, lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0056par0444	We'll set up a subcommittee at the Human Rights Commission and discuss it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0057par0445	Let's explore his right of life.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0056par0446	But, right now, by doing a complete populism...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0057par0447	What populism?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0056par0448	...to make an opportunity to talk about a wound in the hearts of the nation...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0057par0449	18,000 murders are populism?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0056par0450	...that the speech to change the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, compared to the account of a conscience that he had just said, could be based on the conscience of the heart-wrenching families...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0057par0451	Come on, let's investigate them all. Are you willing to investigate them all?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0056par0452	I refer to the conscience of the speakers, the conscience of those who accuse us of this indecency, the conscience of those families, the heart of them.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0057par0453	Are you ready to set up the Truth Commission?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0056par0454	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0058par0455	People are looking for bones, bones...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0057par0456	Let's set up a truth commission.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0059par0457	Congressmans, please... Mr. Kaplan... you have spoken for ten minutes... please allow the speaker to speak.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0458	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, regarding the unsolved...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0061par0459	Find them first.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0460	It's about unknowns, I repeat, underline.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0062par0461	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0462	The AK PARTY came this way from the day it came to power...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0062par0463	Be patient...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0464	...no torture has been witnessed, nor has anyone, except for one incident, have been exposed to the unknown.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0063par0465	In your time...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0062par0466	Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0467	The only non-injured political party is the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0064par0469	Then why don't you open it?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0065par0470	Pay up!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0471	While we should appreciate the work we've done with the unsolved murders, while we should applaud our activities...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0064par0472	You bring in the motion and we'll look into it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0473	...it's inappropriate to invite you here to an accounting of your conscience.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0064par0474	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0475	First, answer for the tears of the mothers, the families, who were slaughtered by the KCK, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) on October 19th.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0064par0476	Let's investigate all the murders. Let's set up a truth commission.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0477	One of your deputies stood up and said, "What the PKK is, is the CK." He said. One of your deputies stood up and said: "Kandil is our center." He said. You can't condemn or condemn the murders of Kandil.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0066par0479	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0064par0480	What a twist! Silence, silence! Don't flex! Elitaş, take a good look at these photos, you'll see some of them among you!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0481	...from 2002 to this side, you can't swallow to your soul the struggle of the AK PARTI's power over the unsolveds, stopping the torture and representing the international community in an upright state.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0064par0482	See these, read those reports!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0483	As a Turkish citizen, I'm afraid you're uncomfortable with the situation you should be proud of. Why?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0067par0484	As a Kurdish citizen, we criticize your policies.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0068par0485	Mr. Tuncel, please...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0060par0486	Today, you are the defenders of the Kurds. You are in a position to torture them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The most important thing the state of the Republic of Turkey must do is to free this nation from the persecution of the PKK. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0069par0491	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Vural, you have a request.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0070par0495	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I believe on July 15, 2011, when you were president, you gave a speech about the testimony of our soldiers at the time. We then issued a declaration as three parties, expressing that Turkey's fight against separatist terrorism is democratic and political legitimacy. We need to stand firm against those who want to condemn Turkey's fight against terrorism by taking it out of democracy or outside legal legitimacy. In this framework, we want all kinds of attempts to get out of the law, to bring out all the people behind it, about these issues, about those who led to this kind of blackout of the anti-terrorism. But we have to say that the Republic of Turkey is determined to conduct the fight against terrorism within the law, within political legitimacy. I'd like to say that we'll be there for any attempt to make it run in this frame.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0069par0497	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0071par0498	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş has targeted our group, and even though the motion to investigate is related to the unsolved murders, he has stepped outside of this, describing that our group is making some sort of statement, twisting the facts. I'd like to make a statement on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0069par0499	You talked about targeting the group...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0071par0500	Yes, sir...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0069par0501	No, I'm telling you, you were talking to Mr. Elitas' group. I'll open your seat.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0071par0503	No, I didn't. I've been talking about the unsubs. He's taking the perpetrator out of the cold...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0072par0504	Mr. President, I've repeated the perpetrators. If they're in denial, tell them to come out.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0069par0505	What did he say?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0073par0506	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0069par0507	Wait a minute, Mr. Ünal... what did he say?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0074par0508	Mr. President, we're going to use the entire ten-minute speech out of context on the subject of the unsubstantiated...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0075par0509	Look at the reports, Mr. President, I've always talked about the unsubs...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0074par0510	...in his day, saying that there were no unsolved murders in his day, such crimes had not been committed in our time. ▪ One person, saying, "There is no one outside of Hablemitoğlu." He made false statements and referred to the statements of our party members.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0075par0511	Mr. President, you're out of commission...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0076par0512	Okay, where's the sarcasm in that?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0074par0513	What else, sir? What else?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0076par0514	No, I'm asking where the teasing is when you say you're not a perp in your own time.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0074par0515	Now, we say that in this period of power, in this period of power, there have been unsolved murders, and now we say that the unlawfulness is ongoing, and we want all of it to be investigated.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0076par0516	I mean, where's Mr. Elitas picking on you?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0074par0517	What's more to be picked on, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0076par0518	Please, Mr. Kaplan... as a bully...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0074par0519	So we have to be AKP people to tease and answer? Mayor, come on, be fair. I'm going out there as a group of vice presidents who have nothing to do with...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0076par0520	Now, Mr. Kaplan, just a second... Mr. Kaplan, you raised your hand to ask for your word, I promised to ask you what you wanted to say. There's got to be a pick-up first, so you'll have to promise me after that. Besides, look, I got the microphone turned on. So you're Deputy Director of the Group, so if you have anything else to say, you can say it, but I don't consider it a tease.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0074par0521	Mr. President, he said that our group's lawmakers have been having these conversations, so I'm not sure...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0076par0522	Under Article 60 of the Civil Code, I promise you, you can talk from there, but there is no bullying, so I want to explain it specifically. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Please, Congressmans, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0077par0527	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş said there was only one unsolved murder in his own administration. You have the Internet in front of you, enter Google, Human Rights Association, and there are 190 unsolved murders of MaZLUMDER. Aydın Erdem, Sherzan Kurt... these are all unsolved murders committed during your reign. Now, that's in all these reports. We're here to investigate unsolved murders. We say to the ruling party, let's turn the truth into a research commission, let's set it up. The organization, the government, the darkness, the gang, the organization, whoever committed the crime, let's investigate them together. Are you in?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0078par0528	Including the KCK.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0077par0529	Let's put this on with courage. Or else I'll tell you what one of our party groups said in Kandil. This is what happened in the recent events. I'll tell you about the unsolved murders of Susurluk during the year. Either you look into it or you stand in his way. You're standing in front of him, but if you have any other arguments, let's put in a reality commission. Let's investigate all the facts in Turkey. Together, let's decide this as Congress, work together. It's my invitation. We're inviting the EC PARTY to set up a truth commission in parliament. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0079par0530	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0080par0531	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I have a sentence to make. Congressman didn't listen to me. He's hung up on some stuff. If you'll excuse me, I'll explain this in one sentence.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0079par0532	It's a sentence. Under Article 60 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0080par0534	Mr. President, we know what the content of the group proposals for the research commissions is, and we say we're comfortable. We say these commissions need to be set up. We took a step last semester. Let the Human Rights Commission set up a subcommittee on this issue, and let this commission, which consists of representatives of all political parties, of the BDP, of the CHP, and of the MPs represented by the EC PARTI...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0079par0535	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0080par0536	...but according to Article 105, there is a three-month period.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0079par0537	You have explained, Mr. Elitaş. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0081par0539	All right, bring it in. We'll take it. Other groups agree.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0082par0540	But it's not very comprehensive, it's just for the purpose of changing the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0079par0542	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0082par0543	In that sense, we reject this motion. It was given for the purpose of changing the agenda.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0083par0544	Bring it in, we accept, brother. Don't mention it... bring it, bring it, stand by it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0084par0545	My dear President...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0085par0546	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0084par0547	Dear President, I invite you on duty. There's no government, what are you voting for?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit01spe0085par0548	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit02spe0085par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, for a free membership in the Radio and Television Supreme Council, we will choose by Article 35 of the Law on the Foundation of Radio and Televisions, Publishing and Services, according to Article 6112. According to Article 35 of the Law, two candidates have been nominated for membership in the Peace and Democracy Party group, which is empty on the upper council. The names of the candidates were printed in the form of ballots. He will be selected as the most eligible candidate on the election list, provided the meeting and decision are sufficient. I propose that in order to avoid any hesitation, the clerk members of the commission, the members of the commission at the commission and the government, will mark the name of the MP from Adana to İstanbul, including Istanbul, and give him an envelope with a sealed ballot from the government, starting from İzmir to Zonguldak, from Zonguldak to Zonguldak. The member who receives the ballot and the envelope will mark the square across the candidate's name with a cross mark and place the ballot in the envelope and drop the envelope in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court stand. The ballots marked by multiple candidates from the candidate list will be invalid. These issues are clearly listed on the ballots as footnotes. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Now, I'm going to draw a name for the census and the transcript of the vote, and I'm going to identify a five-man commission: Corum MP Flood Köse... Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye... here. Istanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel... here. Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun... here. Ankara MP Ahmet Cemalaya... here. The members of the Commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Are there any lawmakers who don't use the game? Congressmans, the voting process is complete. Cups off. Members of the Task Commission, please take their seats; Corum MP Mr. Hurl Köse, Osmaniye MP Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel, Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun and Ankara MP Ahmetecima. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, 256 members participated in the election for membership in the Peace and Democracy Party on the Radio and Television Supreme Council have been shown below the distribution of the votes used. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ahmet Yıldırım : 126 votes Abdullah Karahan : 86 votes According to this result, the decision needed for the election was not sufficient. Now we're going to repeat the election. We're setting up the collection commission. Vahit Kiler, Bitlis... no. Birgül Ayman Güler, İzmir MP... Hussain Aygün, Tunceli MP... no. Kemal Sokci, Bursa MP... he's here. Akif Çağatay Kılıç, Samsun MP... Zelkif Kazdal, Ankara MP... Sebahattin Karakelle, Erzincan MP... Fehmi Cubic, Bolu MP... here. Bedrettin Yıldırım, Bursa MP... no. Semiha Öyüş, Aydın MP... no. Fevai Arslan, Düzce MP... no. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya MP... Spiritual Consciousness, Aksaray MP... no. Mahmoud Mujahit Nuts, Malatya MP... here. Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir MP... Mr. Fevai Arslan... he's here. Gönul Bekin Şahkulubey, Mardin MP... Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu, Kayseri MP... Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP... Mihrimah Belma Kart, İstanbul MP... here. Mr. Row, please. The members of the Commission for Accounting will take their place in the commission's ranks after the vote is completed. We begin the voting process in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Are there any lawmakers who don't use the game? The voting process is complete. Please, let's raise the mugs. Members of the Task Commission, please take their seats: Bursa MP Kemal Ekcici, Bolu MP Fehmi Kübüçü, Malatya MP Mr Mahmut Mujahit Nutuklı, Düzce MP Mr. Fevai Arslan and İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Congressmans, I have a report from the Commission on the draft for the selection of (1) for membership available on the Radio and Television Supreme Council: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 245 members participated in the second election for membership in the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the Radio and Television Supreme Council have been shown below the distribution of the votes used. It's presented with respect. A list of candidates for the Peace and Democracy Group: Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ahmet Yıldırım : 191 votes Abdullah Karahan : 20 votes According to this, Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ahmet Yıldırım has been elected to the High Council of Radio and Television. I wish him well. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0085par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 16th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume our talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place, in accordance with the amendments made in Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation Convention. The commission and the government are in place. Yesterday's merger completed negotiations on item 1. There will now be a ten-minute question-answer procedure. Mr. Çarik, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Köse - I request that they go back into the system - Mr. Baytutan, Mr. Bayktutan, Mr. Spectacular, Mr. Turan, Mr. Işim, Mr. Selamoğlu, Mr. Türkkan, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Bulk, Mr. Özturk, Mr. K. Yilmaz, Mr. S. Yilmaz, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Ayhan and Mr. Ugly. Mr. Drift... no. Mr. Original... Mr. Baydar... Mr. Köse... Mr. Flagtutan... Dear Private...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0086par0018	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the government through you: is the MlGA getting approval from our government before guaranteeing investments in our country?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0085par0019	Thank you. Mr. Business... Mr. Can...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0087par0022	Mr. President, I'd like to ask our Minister a question. Can we cross-reference the MIGA with the Development Agency? In particular for Turkish investors, can the Development Agency fill in for MIA? Thank you. (x) 40 S. Numbered Basmaz 2/11/2011 is included in the 15th Union report.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0088par0026	Thank you. Mr. Turan... Dear Light... Mr. Selamoglu... Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0089par0031	Mr. President, what is the amount of Israeli investment among the investments in Turkey, which are guaranteed by the MiGA? Other than that, were there any previous agreements between Turkey and Syria that were part of the mutual investment programme, including MIA? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0090par0034	Thank you. Mr. Oğan... Mr. Cloud... Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0091par0038	Mr. President, a member of parliament who spoke last night attempted to make a scene here in a manner that would not be appropriate to the legislature of the House. I wanted to make a promise that his own attitude would not be appropriate here, but I had given up when I saw that he wouldn't be a bitch in the future.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0090par0039	Mr. Ozturk, please, let's ask you about the matter.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0091par0040	I'll give you my regards.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0090par0041	Thank you. Mr. K. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0092par0043	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, can you inform us about the sector distribution of investments that will be brought into our country under the MiGA guarantee? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0093par0046	Thank you. Mr. S. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0094par0048	Mr. President, thank you. The districts of the province of Adana, Karaisalı, Feike, Saimbeyli, and Safitbeyli are in the 600th and 700th places in terms of backwardness in the 890 districts. These areas are especially rich in medical and aromatic plants. Do you or do you plan to open the way for the investor here today, given that medical and aromatic plants such as thyme, rosemary, defne, carob, cedar, and cedar mushrooms are a rising value? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0095par0051	Thank you. Mr. Sesame... Last speaker, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0096par0054	Mr. President, through you, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary that the MIGA is an insurance company for investments of international financial circles in developing countries. This insurance company is meant to meet the challenges they face in those countries against financial investments. We have a variety of investments. What was the loss of our investor in our investments in the last Arab spring, North Africa and the Middle East? Did we receive an assessment, a contribution from MIA? How much did we get? I'd like to ask for the information on this. My respects.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0095par0056	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Secretary, please. You have five minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0097par0059	Dear President, thank you. There is a question concerning whether MIA is getting approval before guaranteeing investments. Yes, the MIGA is approved when guaranteeing these investments. Under Article 15 of the institutional agreement, it is decided that the host country will approve guarantees before finalising the warranty agreement. Under the matter of the wager, the mechanism for project approval in our country was determined by letter dated 4 October 1990. However, the changing legislation is already under way to renew the letter within the scope of today's needs. What's different from development agencies? A question was asked from a comparison point of view. The difference between the development agencies and MIA is that it works as an insurance agency. I can make that clear. Another question has been asked to be briefed on sectoral distribution. In particular, infrastructure projects, energy projects and transport projects are major projects in sectoral distribution. Has this ever been a guarantee for the investors in North Africa, the Middle East? There are no guarantees for these countries. Turkish investments in Iraq were guaranteed in the 2011 fiscal year. But after this Arab spring, as I've just said, there is no guarantee agreement that has yet been made. This question about the districts of our Adana province was asked about medical and aromatic plants in the development ranking of relatively backward boroughs. The other questions were questions I had some technical support for, but that is, of course, my position. I'd especially like to thank you for that question. If any investors have any ideas about this, please let them contact me directly with our Ministry. What we do is that actually developing medicine is a very difficult process. You know, you have a plant, but you might not be able to develop it again. This needs to be a scientific infrastructure, a process of universities and industry. We've brought a number of regulations that will facilitate production in Turkey, especially in terms of high-tech or high-tech information. So it would be a great pleasure if we could support the development of these districts of Adana. Dear Congressman, please contact us for a more detailed discussion, and let's work on the matter. As part of the MIGA -- I answer another question -- we have no association with Israel. For how long have Israel's investments been asked? We don't have any cooperation. I think we've answered all the questions.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0098par0067	There was Syria.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0097par0068	We have no cooperation with Syria. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0099par0070	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Ayşe Nedret Akova, Balıkesir MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Akova, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0100par0078	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I honor and appreciate Ataturk and Ismet Inönu, with the honor of being a woman in this House, thanks to our great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has given the world the right to choose and be elected before many countries, the consciousness of civilized life, and freeing our republic from old age. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ismet Pasha was one of the heroes of the National Liberation War and left the children of this country without a father, even in the harsh conditions of war. Innu has opened the way for democracy by allowing us to lead multi-party life. In Turkey's past, there was no history of the National Chief Fascism, but yesterday, based on the ruling majority, control authority was suspended, as shown in practice, taken away from us. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Again, with the decree of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0101par0083	Mr. Akova, this is yesterday's issue, so please come to the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0100par0085	I'm finishing, sir. ...Turkey's Grand National Assembly is bypassed, the law is broken. Honourable lawmakers are crucial to international investments in foreign capital, the growth and development of our country's economy. In order to attract foreign capital investments, many incentives are required, as well as the low political risk of our country. In retrospect, foreign capital investments in our country were not meant to invest in a new industrial sector, but to buy an existing company. Either one of our banks has been sold or one of our important public enterprises has been sold, or our important public company, such as Turkish Telecom, has been sold for a total six-year turnover. The important thing is that foreign investment brings new technology into our country, builds a new factory, creates value in our country from scratch. Now, to guarantee foreign capital investments in our country, the bill is on the agenda to make changes in the Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation Convention. The Multi-sided Investment Guarantee Foundation guarantees foreign capital investments in our country, but since 1991, a total of $1 billion, 200 million in 20 years has been guaranteed, so the average amount of guarantee per year is $60 million. How can a $60 million guarantee help the development of our country? Think about it. Would the change in this contract increase the amount of foreign capital guaranteed by 100 percent? Let's say it increased 100 percent, so is guaranteeing $120 million a year going to be a huge contribution to our country's economy? It's good to think about it. So there is a need for more serious arrangements to attract foreign capital investments in our country. The most important factor in attracting foreign capital is reducing political risk. In order to reduce political risk, we need to stop following politics with a constant conflicting factor with our neighbors, in terms of domestic policy, not to be interviewed by people the world considers terrorists, but to stop showing off in international politics. To reset the political risk element, it is imperative that we follow a more compromise policy. Very valuable MPs, no matter what party we politicians are from, we can agree on basic principles and reach a common denominator for political action. To say stop against all kinds of terror and violence, to say stop against inequality and injustice, to act according to the superiority of democracy, human rights and law in every step, to bring our country to the modern, advanced civilization level, which should be our common denominator, after which democracy and freedoms will not be used to destroy democracy. In violation of human rights, the most fundamental injustice of gender is applied to women. The most fundamental right to a woman's right of life is to be taken from her and to prevent her from living as a human being. In addition to domestic violence against women, the inequality of employment, promotions and wages, income and education are common problems for women living in different societies and cultures, regardless of the level of education. The Women's Rights Protection and Development of Women's rights in the Women's and Men's Equality Commission is under way, the necessary arrangements for the equality of women's men and women's women's women's lives are under way. Women and Family members are working on the Law Bill for the Protection of Violence. First of all, it is intended to protect the most basic human right to live, to end women's murders in our country, and to protect the state's violence, to protect the violent. Our common mind and will must create a basis for reconciliation that will allow this law to be enforced quickly. It is our common desire to make legal arrangements to prevent violence against women and family members as soon as possible. Highly valued MPs, the olive harvest has begun in Balıkesir County and in our bay. Ten and a half percent of the olive trees in our country are within the province of Balıkesir. Our province is ranked first in oil olive production. Therefore, public support is very important for us to promote olive oil, to increase consumption, to expand the domestic and external market. The high and high rise in agricultural medicine, fertilizer and diesel prices puts the olive producer in a difficult position. The product support premium system needs to perform a planner and an enhancer of the quality of production, not to compensate. The increase in production costs and inflation should be increased by the amount of support paid per kilogram of the product. Despite the increased inflation of 40 cents in olive oil in 1998, manufacturers marry their children by selling their olive groves for 15 cents in 2009 and 30 cents in 2010, and can open their workplaces again by selling olive groves. The olive producer is very victimised, since the support premium has not been increased by inflation. This support has followed an ups and downs over the years. The 50 cent support bonus for 2011 and 2012 is also insufficient. State support in European countries is around 2 Turkish liras. The population of Balıkesir is above the average of Turkey in rural areas. Therefore, I would like you to make a change in the Farmer's Property Protection Act and contribute to giving the head of farmer's goods a monthly protection fee and a right to peace so that the elders can do their duty better. The Law on the Protection of Farmers' Property No. 4081 was issued in 1941. This Law is insufficient to meet the needs of our farmers in today's socioeconomic conditions. According to Law 4081's 9th Article, no charge and no expense will be given to the elders of the guard and to the elders of the councils for their protection due to the services and treatments of the law. In today's socioeconomic conditions, it is not possible to employ a worker without paying for his labor. It is also protected by our Constitution that a person should receive wages for his labor. While part of the Murakabe delegation is elected from government officials, the other five members are protected and old parliaments without charge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, thank you very much, sir, with all due respect.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0102par0101	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Articles, Kopeeli MP Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0105	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to foreign investments in Turkey and outside Turkey, guaranteed under the MIGA. In a scheme punishable by investing in Turkey, there is nothing so foolish as waiting for foreigners to invest in Turkey. [[Are you an industrialist from the AK PARTY ranks?]] Yeah. I'm an industrialist.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0104par0109	If you look at the painting, you'll see.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0110	I'm an industrialist, I'll tell you something. In Turkey, we use energy at three times the cost of the world's energy; oil is like this, electricity is like that, natural gas is like that.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0105par0111	Are you still an industrialist?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0106par0112	Congressman, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0113	Look, I'll tell you what, I'll tell you one thing, you can't get out of here. I'm serious. That's part of it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0106par0114	Mr. Turkkan, I beg you not to tell me.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0115	I'm not saying I keep leaving. Just so you know, that's part of it. It is not wise to expect foreigners to invest in Turkey at a time when even the Turkish industrialist did not dare. The reason is, look: Turkey, as I read to you the last day, is troubled by the issue of stability in the sustainable economy. Turkey is among the most risky countries in an article published on Wall Street. In this case, you will find no outsiders in Turkey who will rise up and invest in a region where there are so many political risks in this region, where we start to create zero problems policy with foreign countries, our neighbouring countries, and only in this area, where their policy of problem policies prevails. You know who you'll find? But you find a family of friends like the Hariri family that you gave Telekom to, and you make a state worth it. His name wouldn't be an investment, that's something else. Investment can be expressed directly by investment. Did you ever hear in Turkey that he's bought land, and I'll tell my master, he's brought his machines, he's going to create jobs? No. However, as in the Candy Law, you can make Cargill a partner with a foreign company in Turkey and pave the way for investments that have poisoned Turkish people on starch-based sugar, shortening the life of Turkish people, allowing them to use more in Turkey. Otherwise, Turkey will cease to be a country with investments. I just asked about Syria and Israel, and I want to ask about Libya. Turkish investments in Libya are about $25 billion. Is there any coverage of our investments in Libya that guarantees these political risks? Our $25 billion is wasted? So, in Libya, a different system came in, and we helped bring down Gaddafi, so that we could bring democracy, and there came a system where democracy would never be talked about. We've become serious enemies of our neighbors: look, Syria stands slowly. Russia has convinced him, convinced China, and through Britain, persuaded the countries of the European Union. Our sanctions against Syria have become a country that can only maintain bad relations with Syria; until yesterday, we have become a brother and a treacherous country. In this system, it is also an indication that you, against foreigners, are not covered by guarantees, even in Libya, where our investments are concentrated in foreign countries, that this guarantee fund is not in the best interest of Turkey. An investment in Germany, England -- I don't know how much Turkish investment -- doesn't need a guarantee against such political risks, but the one in Libya does. If we can't take advantage of this, I don't think this insurance fund that comes in our way with this bill has much to do with it. I'm just telling my friend, "Are you an industrialist?" Yes, I'm an industrialist, I'm trying to do industry, I'm doing a very difficult job in your power. You're telling the Turkish peasant that this is the price of wheat in the world, and you still want to sell us wheat for that much. You give the man diesel for three times the price of the world, you give the seed for three times the price of the world, you get the fertilizer for justice, and then you say, "What's the price of wheat in the world?" Sunflower Hakeza, the new plant in Turkey, canola, soya hakeza. In that case, I'm a brother who's trying to become an industrialist under the circumstances. I was nominated in 2007, and I didn't get elected. Twelve days before 2007, I'm an industrialist who stopped by the tax inspector's gadrin and was in over my head in very serious numbers, and I'm in over my head in tax fines. My only unreceived goods were caught, and that's all there was to trade with the old $4 billion from Abdullah Unakitan, son of Kemal Unakitan. So, I came across a bill taken by Kemal Unakitan's son, which they lost; and I called him Abdullah Unakitan, the son of Mr. Kemal Unakitan. He's not with you right now, I know you've been pooping, pushing, throwing, you don't know.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0107par0120	Mr. Lütfü, have you been punished for irregularities? You just told me.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0121	I'll tell my master, it's not irregularity, it's tax fines, tax tariffs.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0107par0122	Tax evasion?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0123	No, sir, no!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0108par0124	Mr. Turkkan, please don't talk to me. Please address the General Assembly, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0107par0125	You said it yourself.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0126	Were you aware of such an investigation, you're the Alderman.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0107par0127	The result of the trial...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0109par0128	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0129	No, sir, I was acquitted of them. I made it all up in court, and I won't do anything wrong.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0110par0130	Why didn't you take the fines to court?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0103par0131	I took you to court, but I'm trying to tell you that you're such a tyrant. Why can't you come after him and invest in Turkey? Go to the girl who's going to be a nurse, join the AKP, and then we'll get you started. The man will be a pumper at the gas station, and the owner of it will be a member of the AKP. Go, become a member of the AKP. We live in such an era, called the AKP. You know the one-party rule you call fascist power? You've passed that period. Fascism is so innocent in front of you. My respects to all of you. I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0111par0135	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0112par0139	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise to inform you of a matter I've announced to the public at a press conference today. It's something I think is important to all of us. A while ago, I submitted a question motion to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, asking for information on how the audits of the computers used by lawmakers and their members, whether log records were kept or not, and how the audit procedures were conducted, the method of the tender and who it was made. A while ago, I submit to your knowledge the answer to the question motion I asked from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I would like to share it with you. Members of parliament, the response we have received has unfortunately been given to us by an answer that confirms our suspicion that there is no privacy on the issues concerned with the safety of the computers and the working activities of lawmakers that we actually use. As you've seen in the written answer, I've been given an answer to all the computers in our House, all the computer records, log sites, all of which you use, all of your people, your staff, whatever site you go to, whatever you do research, whatever you do, the I.T. Officer has access to it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you can appreciate, we're all doing research on different subjects, we're making questions, we're preparing legal proposals. Naturally, each MP's work must also be confidential, and it is undisputed that this secrecy has a very special condition in particular on law enforcement activities of lawmakers. It is not possible to accept the access of an officer of the House staff. This may be me, it may be you, but any computer used in the current application can be accessed by a friend of our Parliament's Information Administration. I think it's very sensitive, and it's a subject we all have in common. We don't know now, what's the I.T. Officer doing with this access? Who does he report these studies to? Where does he store it, where does he use it? For one thing, we have a right to know. I'd like to share this important information with you. I don't think our lawmakers should use the computers that are now assigned to them while they're studying until this application is stopped. The other questions I've asked, again, have given me the same answer: a study is being made to leave political party groups and lawmakers out of the system. At the end of the work -- pay attention, my dear friends -- political party groups and MPs will have separate rights and freedoms. Now, if we read this sentence backwards, it is considered that all of our MPs are currently limited to their rights and freedoms. This is the written answer to our Parliamentary presidency, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I think our Speaker should seize the issue immediately. Computer work can't take very long. This system must be removed immediately and the environment where lawmakers can express themselves freely, where they can work, otherwise an audit in this way will eliminate the secrecy of all our work. That's why I've made a promise, and I'd like to call on the Speaker immediately, to greet you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0113par0149	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Ali Reza Alaboyun, Aksaray MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Alaboyun.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0114par0153	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath that the amendments to Article 40 of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation Convention are appropriate, Mr. President, on Article 2 of the Dair Legislature. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, our country has spent many years trying to motivate both domestic capital and foreign capital to carry out its development move. In the context of attracting foreign capital to our country, Turkey was a member of the Multi-sided Investment Guarantee Foundation, established in 1988 in the World Bank group, whose short name is (MIGA). The aim of this organisation is to protect foreign investors from political risks that will invest in Turkey, as in the world. Dear lawmakers, after the crisis in our country, the EC PARTY, which came to power alone in 2002, came to trust local and foreign investors with the firm and visionary leadership of our Prime Minister. Our country's political risks have largely disappeared. Turkey's young and dynamic population, its strong economy, has become a country where investors can see the way because of its political stability. Despite the global financial crisis in the European Union and the United States, which broke out at the end of 2008, Turkey is the most solid structure in Europe due to its strong financial structure. Even in such a crisis, Turkey has continued to attract foreign capital. It is also important for foreign investors to come from Europe mainly. In 2002, the number of foreign capital companies operating in our country was around 5,600. At the end of 2010, the number reached the 25,800. We see that foreign capital is heavily invested in all areas, especially in energy, financing, manufacturing, and bringing knowledge and technology to our country. During our rule of power, improving the investment climate, receiving the negotiating process in the European Union, taking positive steps towards democratisation, institutionalisation and the superiority of law provided assurances for foreign investors as well as for our own investors. It is important for countries to invest foreign capital, as well as to stimulate their internal resources for development. We live in a world where globalization and commercial boundaries are lifted, where countries are dependent on each other in terms of capital, technology, knowledge and labour. The MIGA, founded within the World Bank in 1988 to protect foreign investors against political risks, has guaranteed foreign capital investors in our country since 1991, shortly after we became members in 1988. I hope that the amendment to the Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation, whose short name is MIGA, will be approved, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0115par0162	Thank you, Mr. Alaboyun. Now, there will be a ten-minute question-answer procedure on the matter. Don't ask questions for five minutes, it's a five-minute response period. Mr. Turan, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Selamoğlu, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Izmir, Mr. Sesame and Mr. Ayhan have entered the system. Mr. Turan, please. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0116par0168	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to ask the Minister about the deal on the agenda. I want to ask what investments are guaranteed by the MIGA, and what are the conditions of the guarantees of MIA. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0117par0171	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0118par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the level of prosperity in a country is also proportional to the savings of the people. I wonder, what's the local savings rate on these high-profile loans used in Turkey -- which is a lot of GDP, and I'd like to think about that term -- in the other part of the question? For a comparison, and for the enlightenment of lawmakers, I ask that I be informed of what the domestic savings rate is in all loans used by 2010, so that we can compare, whether the public's well-being has really increased in Turkey, has it not increased or has it not? Two: A number of our friends, of course, are talking about some growth in the economy, China, Turkey, in order for them to study the terms when they use them here, but I'm curious. Is it other countries that are growing up around here after this illegitimate definition of domestic product? Like, for example, America or Germany, which grew up in China? Or is China really growing up with its people?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0119par0176	Thank you. Mr. Selamoglu...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0120par0178	Mr. President, how much do Turkish investors benefit from this guarantee under the guarantees provided by the esteemed MPs, Minister?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0119par0179	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0121par0181	Mr. President, I'd like to know how many investments have been made in the Mugla province under the MIGA. Second, how much does the government expect to invest in our country in the next five years under this MIGA Agreement? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0122par0184	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0123par0186	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Is the president of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad an alternative to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is one? Secondly, why were our educational attachés in Germany called back, and why? Three, on what basis did the representatives of the international Turks and the Association of Relatives open? How do you give these representations, pay them, or where do they get their money? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0124par0191	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0125par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister. By guaranteeing the investments of these foreigners, you have put Adana at a disadvantage with the incentive law you passed in 2009. In our Adana, nearly forty factories were shut down. Right now, our investors are leaving their jobs by locking their doors. Do you intend to rectify this injustice? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0126par0195	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0127par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the number of still members of MIA? What are the countries with the highest voter power and the voting rate? Does the government have a government's work in order to increase the voter power of our country to 4.8 a thousand? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0128par0200	Thank you. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0129par0202	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary. I've asked my question before, but since the Minister of Health has no expertise and lack of technical support... The total amount of insurance for foreign investors related to our MIA is 1.2 billion US dollars. Our investors' investment abroad is $175 million. When these investments are insured and insured, if there is damage to their investments due to various risks outside of trade in the country, it's being compensated by the MIGA, but it's being collected back from governments. How much of the 1.2 billion investments in our country have our countries paid back? And when I asked him about the Arab spring, how much did he give back to 177.5 billion dollars?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0128par0204	Thank you. Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0130par0206	Mr. President, the MIGA is a system for investments in risky areas. Is this subject considered during the Oslo talks? Now, was it thought of during the MiGA Convention bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0128par0208	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0131par0210	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have been promised to answer the questions asked about the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation, MIA. I salute your high council. In response to our MP, who asks: MIGA guarantees include loans and guarantees provided by capital owners for more than a year, with some kind of direct investment, or loans provided to finance a particular investment or project. The second question is, what are the conditions of the guarantees of the MIGA? I answer: Primitive rates are determined in the project, and vary according to the country, the sector and the guaranteed risk type. MIGA guarantees at least three years, more than a year, fifteen years at the most for loans, to be 20 years by nature of the project. The MIGA guarantees an additional 500 per cent amount of investment contributions to cover investments invested in the project, not being distributed to 90 per cent of the investment capital investments. It guarantees 95 per cent of the capital of the loan and loan guarantees and an additional 150 per cent of the principal to pay the interest. The third question is, are the guarantees of the MlGA (MIGA) guarantees bringing a burden to the Republic of Turkey? I answer the question: Whether it is the foreign capital investments in our country or the obligations imposed by Turkish investors in other countries under the guarantees provided by MlGA (MIGA). Is MlGA getting approval from our government before guaranteeing investments in our country? The answer to the question my MP asked is: On Article 15 of the MIGA contract, it is decided that the host country will ratify the warranty before it finalises its guarantee agreement. Under the matter of the wager, the mechanism for project approval in our country was determined by letter dated 4 October 1990. However, under the changing legislation and today's needs, renovation of the letter is already under way. How much do Turkish investors benefit from these guarantees? I answer the question: As of June 30, 2011, Turkish investors guarantees for investments in other countries are 177.5 million dollars. How many guarantees have the MiGA provided for investments in Turkey so far? I answer: As of June 30, 2011, the total amount of guarantees provided by the MiGA for foreign capital investments in our country is $1.6 billion. In the next five years, it will be based on the demands of investors to guarantee investments in our country. At this point, the amount of five years is not possible to be known. MIGA (MIA) has a hundred and seventy-five members, and the country with the largest voter power is the United States of America. We'll answer your other questions in writing. Thank you. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0132par0222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Mr. Group Vice Presidents have demands for the holiday celebration. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0133par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. On the last day of this semester, we'll be finishing up as group vice presidents in a moment. The feast of sacrifice will begin. We wish that the Festival of Sacrifice would bring peace this time, that today, in a time of great suffering, would bring blessings to the whole world of Islam, our country, our people, and we see the festivals as a day of peace, a day of brotherhood. I think we're going to meet many friends, parties, in Van. We're going to be in Van. It's the first day of the festival. I have made this occasion a promise that I hope our House will bring a more comfortable time after the holidays, a more comfortable agenda. I'm already saying happy holidays to all of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0134par0234	Thank you. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0135par0237	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, we, the National Movement Party Group, wish blessed Victim's Day would bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to bring peace, health, happiness. All those who serve under the Turkish Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all the employees, all our members, all our political parties and all our MPs, I wish you all the best. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0136par0240	Thank you. Mr. Tarhan, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0137par0243	On behalf of my group, Mr. President, I wish you all the happiness of our nation and especially Van's earthquake victims.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0136par0244	Thank you. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0138par0247	Mr. President, thank you. On Sunday, we'll be able to understand the holy feast of sacrifice. On October 19th, we faced our martyrs, their pain is within us. On October 23rd, we faced the Van earthquake, Ercish earthquake, and we continue the same pain, but I hope, that the Blessed Sacrifice will be a blessing to the entire Islamic world; I also think it will contribute to our country's unity and brotherhood with the prayers of the Turkish nation. Congratulations to all of our MPs, our nation's blessed Eid of Sacrifices.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0136par0249	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. [[Continue]] I'm reading the third article: The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0139par0259	Mr. President, I have made a pledge today on behalf of my group on article 3 of the MlGA. I salute you all. There is also a fact that I have seen this Assembly about MIA, in my work when I was assigned to the questions and when I was assigned to it, that it needed to be more specific and accurate. MIA, of course, is an organization in which foreign investors make insurance by reducing investments in countries they invest in, by removing risks, by making them insurance, and we have a 48 per thousandth vote in this organization, and the voting right is largely at close to 48 per cent of the vote, including the United States, France, Germany, Italy and China. So it's an institution that global capital has set up to reset its risk for investments in developing countries, and it's a company founded by the World Bank, and its president is the president of the World Bank. Now, once we get this organization right, one of the most important things we need to talk about is that our country needs foreign capital, needs investors, and we have more investments in other countries. We understand all of this, but in a way in the world, global capital has brought it to a point, which has become a serious cause of injustice in the world in the face of its investments at zero risks. In the face of the crisis in the world today, we would like to remind this Parliament of the slogan of the people who acted at the Freedom Park in Wall Street: we are 99 percent, you are 1 percent. We don't want to pay 99 percent for the mistakes that 1% has made. (The global capital has come to a position that is seriously preventing income injustice, unfair competition, domestic capital in developing countries, and preventing small businesses. We're gonna have to get this right. When we don't do this right test, we praise the MIGA here, and we can't understand the real causes of a lot of economic distress in our country without seeing the background of the work. Today, indeed, in these economic policies of global capital, the world needs to put the function of global capital on the table, and in the global capital dimension to be invested, the eradication of the hegemonia that the developing countries have built on those countries, primarily because of the unfair competition of global capital in front of them. Today, global capital has capital structures that have come to a greater extent than the country's non-national revenues, and many of the very limited global capital markets in the world and in our country are dominated by global capital markets. Look, I'll give you an example: in our country, there are 10 large companies in the retail market, 56 percent of the retail market, including global capital. The remaining 1 million small businesses have a total of 44 per cent of them, and their profitability is at a far higher than their rate of 44 per cent, and their profit transfers seriously raise foreign exchange deficits, current deficits and economic problems in this country's economy. Dear friends, one of the biggest flaws in the economic policy the Justice and Development Party has in its nine years of power is that in its understanding of bringing hot money to this country, the foreign investor, however it may come to it, there is a huge negative reaction to its policy that prevents production, encourages imports, and creates logistical industry in this country. The government understands this today, and the measures at the point of reducing the current current deficit are very clear in recent economic decisions. What does the Prime Minister say: Shall we not take these increases and return to Greece? Should we not increase electricity and return to Greece? This means that the economic policy in Turkey is constantly creating a current account deficit, the balance between imports and exports is being opened, and as of today, the difference between the increase in imports and the increase in exports continues. Increase in exports 24 per cent, increase in imports 42 per cent. So even the measures you take in this sense don't satisfy the balance between imports and exports in a serious way at this point. What we need to do is to bring small, medium-sized businesses in this country above world standards by promoting the country's local industry. Global capital makes a lot of money. Let me give you an example. Ipods are in fashion. The market price of the iPod is $270. The corporations of global capital are making ipods in China. Do you know how much it costs? He's getting $3.50. How much money does China make? He's making 50 cents. Costs, ads, markets, other organizations, $8.5 cents, sold for $270 in the market. Look at the profitability, the efficiency. Is it possible to stand up to that power? I mean, would the olive producer say that if he sold the oil he took out for $270 in the world market, he'd enjoy it? So, with that savings in the world, global capital is rapidly collecting the cheap labor force, the resources of the world and the money of the world, its finances, its new channels, its new financial games, and its profitability has increased greatly. Look, I was just talking to some of the DPT people about MIA, and I asked them, "Who's paying the money against the guarantee that they're paying?" They sell these insurance portfolios on the market, where they get the money they pay in exchange for the risks they're taking here once again. In the face of this global capital, which is at the point of providing all these financial games and cycles, the world is reacting starting with Wall Strett. Global capital should re-enact income justice, dividends. While Africa struggles with hunger in the Middle East, global capital's insensitivity is evident. Mr. Prime Minister also says that if you give them what's on their butt, the people in Somalia will be satisfied. So, those who need to give these double-shoes, they need to do an accurate account of the global capital in this country. So, when we're talking about this, we have to get these facts right on the table and see. Turkey must reconsider its economic development and economic policy. To draw international capital into this country, without destroying its own industry, without destroying its own small businesses, to get the hypermarket law out, he must do so by being afraid of the power of lobbyists, not by being silent, but by supporting them. My respects to all of you. I'm celebrating your holiday. I wish our nation health, peace, peace, holidays, and bow before our martyrs.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0140par0273	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0141par0276	Mr. President, I have taken the oath to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 3 of the Dair Law Bill that the amendments made in Articles of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Foundation are acceptable. I salute your high council. We've been working on this bill for two days. Now, we're talking about the activation clause. I'm sure the Council of Ministers will run it as well as ever. Indeed, the Council of Ministers conducts these contracts well. Some things are really important. How many pelts come out of a job? Now, yesterday, when I was talking about the general, I explained the technical content in detail. I also explained why investment would be needed when we discussed the first article. In MIA, the main goal is to compensate for the loss of political risks of lost investments in the country. So what? Investment in a risky area should be covered if it goes missing. Whose money? The global capital will actually invest -- we don't say it shouldn't -- but if there's a problem here, if there's a risk incident, someone will pay for it. That's the importance of this job. If you see the amount that this guarantees in a macro sense, and if you see the part that goes into other countries, countries like us, you'll see that this is true. Now, I regret to inform you that there is no internal consistency in this government so far. Look, one of the ministers who represented the government here yesterday explained that from inflation to public financing, everything was a rose. Now -- repentance, if we don't -- what's TÜFE today, guys? 3,27, 3.27 percent. Your target for a year is five percent, just last month... what was it, guys? It's October, isn't it? 3.27 in October. Your annual target is around five, right? Now, how is that good friends? We need to talk about this. Is it possible to say that this is good? Here he comes, Mr. Secretary, he can really explain that this is good. Now, he also talked about foreign trade and current deficits, and he actually said it sincerely; I'd be offended if I didn't say it, but there's been deficits of foreign trade and current transactions for ten years, and there's more than one, but there's no problem with that, but I've healed it. To say, "In this environment, I'm reducing it from 9 per cent to 8 per cent." When you set a goal, it's not possible to improve it. You've found 9 percent, the most dangerous rates, the most dangerous rates in the world. It's the same thing with money policies. Markets are checking the Central Bank. Notice that the president of the former Central Bank said the same thing, and they checked me out. Now, in order for you not to be checked, you have to be firm, you have to be firm. Something that isn't solid is tested. It's really easy to say that there's trouble there, too. Now, there's no need to talk about employment at all: it's this low, it's this much higher and so on... you're just wandering around where you've come from, according to the TİİK. You're still out there.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0142par0285	You do the math, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0141par0286	Yesterday, I saw Mr. Secretary explaining such an explanation of his unemployment data about Adana, as if he were in a state of bliss. There's nothing to be happy about, there's a disgrace in there, knee-deep in it. Now, the state of the industry -- just now our Minister of Industry -- was here -- I tell you every year, in the budget, in the Commission, and here -- the decision of the Council of Ministers, the 2012 Program, what does it say? The height of the industry's credit costs, the unfair competition due to unregistered economy and low-priced imports, the excess of bureaucracy, the higher prices of certain entries provided by the public by international prices, electricity, natural gas... is there anything else, Mr. Minister? - basic problems, such as the height of tax rates, continue. You didn't give a raise for three or four years, and now, God willing, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, it's going, and the best industrialists are alive. Now, also, look, there is continued: the lack of technology production, limited production skills in advanced goods, the need for modernisation of facilities in production and management structures, the challenges for investors in the capacity and potential of industry. You've set up a private office for the Prime Minister -- fear God -- and the Prime Minister is following him. You're still not afraid to write that down in the Council of Ministers. So, now, you're trying to stop people from watching this. That's where the trouble is. You're saying it's over $70 billion open. Now, exports are increasing by 20 percent; very well, you explain it every month somewhere. Imports are going up 40 percent, foreign trade deficits are going up 70 percent. What's good about that? Many industrialists began producing their products in China. It's clear there's something wrong with an application that you're doing on this side, because it's part of the economy, and it's part of the economy. And for the source, Mr. Secretary, I know that you are a true member of the province and that you follow its work very well, so I'm telling you. To find resources, electricity, natural gas, the increase in OTV, not that upgrade, and God willing, taxes from imports. If you reduce import taxes and reduce imports and reduce foreign trade deficits, the budget will be short. The budget has not been short in ten months. You say, but there is a $20 billion deficit in the twelve-month budget -- you put it in your account -- you cheat it into your account -- you transfer it to the other side next year -- if anyone knows it here, they know it -- 40. Tell me the truth about this. So the people who are interested don't know? The interested know, of course. Yesterday, a deputy from the AKP, I really appreciate that he said some things about his behavior, about the opposition. He said, "Let me know when you have something to suggest to my child." You haven't been able to come up with a mid-term plan in five months. I'm embarrassed, so I have a proposal for the Council of Ministers to get out whenever he wants. What more do we have to offer? If that friend goes to his kid, he says: "What if our Council of Ministers is incompetent and has not been able to bring a medium-term program for five months?" Your uncle Haluk offered us the law in opposition, as a favor, for convenience. (Applause from MHP rows) How can we do any more good? But if you don't understand it, if you don't want to understand it, what should we do? Now that we've made the determination, we said five months ago: Look, public investments were really low last year, and today is low for next year. Yesterday I went to your group's deputy, and I said, "Have you congratulated the Minister of Transport?" What happened? He was reassigned. Isn't that right? He's been reassigned. Neither the vice president of the group knows, maybe the Council of Ministers doesn't, and you don't. If anyone has to go on a follow-up, maybe they know about it. That can't happen, dear! That can't happen! I really want to tell that friend that I don't see him around here, and he's someone I admire very much. Please tell your child that I was wrong yesterday, your uncle Haluk came and said this on the stand, and we were only able to say that with these investment agreements. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, that's what's sad, that's what's sad! He sends his regards, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0143par0300	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0144par0301	Mr. President, I'd like to speak on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on Article 3, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0143par0302	Speaking on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP, please come in.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0144par0304	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Yesterday, our brother Abdullah gave a speech here. I want to take advantage of what the MPs from the opposition parties said on the stand. Uncle Haluk just tried to tell me. And the televisions were turned off from Allah, that Abdullah's son didn't watch, and the son of our brother's son; and he saw how his uncle had distorted the numbers, and behold, thou seest him, and seest thou how the lawmakers were sad. Good thing he didn't see it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0145par0307	You're twisting it 24 hours a day on 15 TV channels!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0144par0308	Honourable MPs, look, we're discussing the matter of MIA. Mr. Sesame, about the MIGA, our friends -- they also told us -- they gave a technical speech, and I thank them. In some information, we disagreed, we disagreed, and they asked the technocratic friends here, and I asked the minister, in the question he asked the Minister of Health, did the insurance company have a right to a proposal in our consultation? But in his speech -- he did not have a right to a right -- to a right to a right. Look, dear friends, this deal, the time for the international contract is 1988. The fastest time of the late Ozal, try to change Turkey's shell...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0146par0310	That's the beginning.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0144par0311	It's time to start.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0146par0312	Now, it's being renovated in 2010.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0144par0313	That's what I'm saying, 1988. With Turkey choosing a growth model for a foreign capital-based export structure for itself, Turkey now accepts an export-axis, export-axis growth model, with the end of the early 1980s mixed economic model. During that period, if we were able to withdraw $1 billion of foreign capital a year, the 1990s, if we were able to attract $1 billion of foreign capital to Turkey, the governments would make a tremendous boast. In 2008, Turkey withdrew around $21 billion of foreign capital to Turkey during the EC PARTY ruling period. One of the biggest features of this insurance fund, the International Investments Guarantee Fund, which we call the MIGA, was that in 1988, Turkey was a risky country. Why was it a risky country? Turkey suffered the May 27 coup in 1950, lived on March 12, 1971, and suffered a coup on September 12, 1980. The leader of a ruling party, a prime minister, could only present Turkey's economic issues, but it could not bring up issues related to Turkey's defence, Turkey's education model, Turkey's growth and Turkey's involvement in the world community of nations. In the past time, on March 14, 2008, a political party, which received 47 per cent of the nation's votes, was launched on March 14, 2008, to close the case of the party, which was published on the Internet seven months after the elections, which had been discovered by the unknowable, who had been founded by the Internet Andici. Why? No one could come to a country that produced politics in the shadow of a barrel, which produced foreign capital in a country where its politics, its democracy, its politics, its democracy, was not right. That's why $1.2 billion is the insurance price for investments in Turkey. Our investments abroad cost $177.5 million. In recent years in Turkey... Look, dear friends, I know the budget talks of that day when a great fire started in 2007 and ransacked the entire world, causing the collapse of 70 banks in the United States, and then leaping to Europe. I'm just picturing the budget talks of 2008: "Turkey has gone down, it's gone away!" as our Prime Minister said, "Look, the economic crisis in this world will tangent Turkey, not even tangent."
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0147par0316	We're down five percent, five percent!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0144par0317	But today, in 2002, Greece, as an example, developed earlier in Greece, and why Turkey did not develop like this. Greece, as we call it, is on the verge of bankruptcy. In 2011, Greece prescribed bitter prescriptions for funding from the European Union. It's like, you know, when it was, like, 2001. In 2001, Turkey imported an outsider minister to apply a bitter prescription. The head of the IMF desk in Turkey would not give our prime ministers an appointment. Look, the head of the IMF desk of Turkey hired a private office, instead of visiting the Council of Ministers, he would bring in members of the Council of Ministers and accept them in his office. That's the kind of Turkey that lived. I don't know if the Captain was here until 2002 -- I don't know if the Captain was known for his great achievements in Galatasaray, but Hakan was known for his shish kebabs, but now Turkey is the cradle of democracy, the cradle of democracy, when you ask it in a hundred ninety countries. We should all be proud of it. Maybe we can't say it, you'll be sorry, but the skill is a compliment, dear friends. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Please, don't be offended, let's talk without hurting. It will not benefit us, nor will it benefit anyone else, if we speak out of injury. I'd be glad if a fellow congressman, who says he's a businessman, tried to express the suffering of businessmen from here, because one of Turkey's most important issues is that we now need to make a mental revolution. If Turkey is going to make it industrialized, we need to be able to argue about the situation of the employer and how they're going to take away the literature of the archeologist, the guarantee of the workplace, where the workplace should be, and move it forward. But my esteemed congressman here, if you say anything to a congressman, you won't be able to get up if I say anything... I looked, and I saw who was saying it, Mr. Turkkan. Mr Turkkani, for two days, we knew him. How do we know Mr. Turkkan? We've known each other for a while. So here... Mr. Turkkan, thank you, you're not saying anything now. If a speaker here tries to answer your words in return for what you say, Mr. Turkkan, I'll tell you something that you can't sit down. It's not appropriate when you say it. In that sense, let's continue to talk in a manner that will not offend or offend my dear friends. In two days, we'll all celebrate the Blessed Feast of Sacrifice. We've suffered together, we've tried to understand what our brotherhood is, together, to discuss what must be done for the sake of this country, for its welfare, for its future. Maybe we get it, maybe we don't. It may have been enough, but even the brief words of the members of the group on their way to the Festival of the Blessed Sacrifice were vital. But let's not go as the heartbreaker who's going through this whole Victim's Day thing. Now, a friend of ours, Mr. Ayhan, who was just asking a question, told me the final version of it, and continued to say, "What if it's a bit of literature?"
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0148par0326	That's why you did it. What's he gonna say?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0144par0327	The Janitor or the Autonomous? Is it the Self or the Janitor? Are you self-obsessed or Janitor?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0148par0328	Find out if you don't know.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0149par0329	Well, that's a shame, but now, that's a shame, that's a shame.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0150par0330	Please, Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0331	Let me know if it's the Self-Subject or the Janitor? Are you self-obsessed or Janitor?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0152par0332	You find out, and then...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0333	Well, I don't need to know, so if you tell me, I'll find out.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0153par0334	Dear Elitaş, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0335	If you tell me, I'll find out. I don't need to know.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0153par0336	Mr. Elitaş, please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0337	Now, look, what's he saying... okay Ozturk... okay Ozturk...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0154par0338	They'll ask him, "What did he put his hands on?" They ask, "Where did he put it?" Shame. Instead of giving people advice, you're making it worse.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0339	One word from me and you won't be able to get up.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0154par0340	You're being rude!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0341	One word from me and you won't be able to get up.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0154par0343	You're being rude. I'll tell you what's up, and you can't sit down. You'll be careful.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0344	One word from me and you won't be able to get up.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0154par0345	I'll tell you where you're going, and you can't sit down. I'll tell you where it's going, and you can't sit down. You'll be careful. Shame!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0346	One MP says, Mr. President, that a member of parliament who spoke last night tried to do something here in a manner that would be unprofessional to the legislature. I said it to make it clear that his attitude was not appropriate here, but when I saw that he would not be a bitch to me in the future, I gave up my word.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0154par0347	How can yours fit in? In what order does he fit in?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0155par0348	Is it appropriate to repeat yourself? Why are you repeating yourself?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0151par0349	You're picking something up when you're talking. You wake up, you say something, you say something, you do it, you say it, you pick it up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, congratulations on our nation's blessed Memorial Day, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0156par0353	Dear Elitaş, thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0157par0354	Mr. President, there's been some bullying. I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0158par0355	Mr. President, I'd like a word, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0159par0356	Mr. President, since he mentioned my name, I'd like my word.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0160par0357	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0161par0358	Mr. Yeniçeri wants a word, too.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0160par0359	Wait a second, a Ozturk...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0162par0360	I won't say much. Mr. Group, I have responded to the Vice President's manners.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0160par0361	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0163par0363	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0164par0364	Mr. President, he wants to speak according to 69. Friends, he wants you to promise me from the bench.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0160par0365	Just a moment, Mr...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0165par0366	Mr. President, I just said I don't know your name. What does that have to do with 69?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0160par0367	Do something in line.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0166par0368	Our friends are insulted from the stand, our friends must answer from the stand.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0165par0369	Mr. President, if not knowing your name isn't an insult...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0166par0370	Allow me to answer or give our friends a say.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0167par0371	But Mr. Shandur, the Congressman will express himself.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0166par0372	Allow me to answer.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0167par0373	He'll tell you what he wants. First we'll ask him what he wants it for. Please...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0166par0374	Yes, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0168par0375	Mr. President, he teased me, too.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0167par0376	Well, that's good, Mr. Ayhan. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0169par0378	Mr. President, when I speak of my name, it's based on intelligence... he knows my name, he knows my name, we face each other, but...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0167par0379	I'll give you two minutes, according to Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0170par0380	Mr. President, is it a crime not to know your last name, sir?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0169par0383	You're right, you're right! Look, let me tell you something: first, I salute you all. This is the first time I've spoken here. I'm going to digace my speech, and I'm going to say the rest in an appropriate manner as a result of a two-minute conversation. Now, dear fellow congressmen, this is the nation's stand. We, as a member of parliament, saw that this is incredibly difficult to get on the stand, as a new MP, and there are very, very sad, very hurtful conversations going on here, and those who speak behind these conversations turn the other way.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0171par0386	To the other side...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0169par0387	I'm speaking to you, rather. I'll turn the other way, don't worry. While speaking within this framework, an attitude is displayed in both the bald and the fondue model. However, there is a significant and lasting point in the existence of talks, manners, ethics, and aesthetic content. But, other than that, if you don't get me out of here, I'm gonna throw you out of there all the time. Know that, and you will continue to know.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0172par0389	Mr. Yeniçeri, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0169par0390	So if we find a place to speak, if we find a place to talk, there's no need for tension, there's no problem. But from here, you're going to constantly accuse, you're going to object, you're going to slander, you're going to accuse, we're going to sit down, we're lead soldiers, we're going to listen to what you throw. In that way... [[You will take your word from the AK PARTY ranks and speak.]] You don't promise. I've asked for 50 off-the-tops talks, promised to someone else, and we're not getting them. So I'm going to take the word out, and I'm going to come in here and say what I have to say. Don't worry about it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0395	Mr. Yeniçeri, please...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0169par0396	You'll hear the rest of my speech when it comes to it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0397	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0174par0398	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0175par0399	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a word with you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0400	Mr. Nebati, sit down. One thing at a time... Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0175par0402	Mr. President, due to the bullying...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0403	What'd he pick on you for? What did he say, Mr. Turkkan?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0175par0404	Sir, what else does he have to say? What's he supposed to do, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0405	Mr. Türkan, I have to ask under the Civil Code. Please, open the Civil Charter and read it. What did he say to you and pick on you?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0175par0406	You have to promise me according to 69.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0176par0407	Mr. President, we listened together...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0408	Mr. Shandir, please sit down. Please sit down, he's explaining himself, sir.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0176par0409	So we watch it together. So if Mr. Hatibe wasn't bullied... aren't you here?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0410	I understand, but I have to ask.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0176par0411	He teased me. He says.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0412	Let him say what he said. I'm saying it in terms of getting into the reports.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0413	Sir, according to Article 69, because of the abuse of name-calling myself...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0414	I get it. What did Mr. Elistash say to you? Explain that to me.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0178par0415	Mr. President, he told me about the problems of industry, Mr. Turkkan. I said. Is that teasing?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0416	No, sir. I'll tell you one thing and you'll sit down. He picked on me by returning the behavior that I saw as wrong and making a joke in his mind.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0173par0417	Mr. Turkkan, I'll give you two minutes according to Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0419	Mr. President, the esteemed members, first of all, the speech made by Mr. AKP Group's Deputy Chairman, have convinced me that my testimony on that subject is beyond the scope of purpose. Really, honestly, I was finally getting up and getting ready to come to my brother and apologize. I swear. But behind him is the saying of the New Testament, the Ancient or the Autonomous...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0179par0420	He didn't say old.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0180par0421	I didn't say old, I said old.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0422	Look, at the end of a beautiful talk that needs to be ended, it's not like the ruling party's Deputy Director of the Group. Really. So that statement that you said led me to a sense of regret, after which it was really Elkateli.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0180par0423	It's not Elkat, you don't know.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0424	Where'd he put it? Where'd he put it? I apologize. What was it?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0180par0425	So you're saying you should apologize to Yeniçeri now...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0426	What was it? Sorry.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0181par0427	Mr. Turkkan, let's not talk mutually, please... Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0429	Excuse me, sir. Elkat? Elkat...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0181par0430	Mr. Turkkan, answer the taunt.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0431	Mr. Kat... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] And there's a code of conduct, Congressman. You're the MP of my district. We're talking together.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0181par0434	Mr. Turkkan, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0435	Please, I invite this matter to respect its inner dynamics, its decency. Mr. Fikri Light came out here yesterday, and I didn't make a sound in spite of his views that I didn't agree with. There's literature in it, and I invite you to be decent about it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0182par0438	Dirty!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0177par0439	Thank you. Have a good day. Have a good holiday.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0183par0440	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0184par0441	Mr. President, I'm the one that Mr. Elitas has just expressed, and I'd like to speak with you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0183par0442	Mr. Nebati, one moment... Yes, Mr. Ayhan, what did he say to you and pick on you, sir?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0185par0444	Mr. President, I'm not going to pick on you at this time. Only he said I twisted the numbers. I'm serious about this. I'll put it in a sentence and leave.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0183par0445	Here, I'll give you a minute, once again, under Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0186par0446	Mr. President, you're not running 69.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0183par0447	Patience, Mr. Nebati.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0187par0449	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, these things happen at times like this, but I want to make it very clear that I've twisted the numbers, but he hasn't said what I'm twisting. One of the best people here is Mr. Elitaş, who knows my sensitivity to numbers, my seriousness when I speak. I wanted to express it. I hereby congratulate you on the Grand Council's Feast of Sacrifice. May God give everyone a good holiday of sacrifice with their children. I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0188par0455	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Yes, Mr. Nebati, what did he say and tease you?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0189par0457	Mr. President, during the evening session, I had given up my word when a speaker saw that he would not be a bitch about me. There's a tease, I want a promise.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0188par0458	Mr. Nebati, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0189par0460	My dear President, my lawmakers, yesterday on this bench, this Parliament cannot return to this committee, and this Parliament cannot do anything. I would like to say to the speaker who says that it will not be too much from me, based on the subtle description I used to send to a speaker who used his testimony. Because I'm a creature with brains, intelligence, heart, soul, body, and the value of this nation to their cells. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Now, if I send that fellow a thinny and give him a description of the bostana of forty flavors, he'll never know, he'll sit down. So, I'm going back to the flower, and I'd like to express that there's also a yoghurt, cucumbers, and a garlic that's used in the case. Garlic is such a vegetable that when you put it in that flower, you can't possibly approach the person who eats it, it smells tremendously, and right now, in this House, there's a distinct smell of garlic.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0190par0464	There's a level to the House.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0189par0465	By the way, I'd like to express to my fellow industrialist...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0191par0466	Mr. Nebati...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0192par0467	Mr. President, he's insulting the House, that's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0189par0468	My industrial friends are getting rich, they're getting stronger in the power of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0192par0469	Shame! Shame! He's insulting the House.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0193par0470	Mr. Nebati...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0189par0471	They're taking advantage of the possibilities of the AK PARTY's power, making it worth their while. And they say after that, we industrialists' troubles...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0194par0472	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0189par0473	Five years ago, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to sell your business ten years ago at an old price.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0195par0474	Mr. President, let him apologize, this House does not stink!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0189par0475	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0196par0477	It's a shame to clap, you know...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0197par0478	Mr. Nebati, would you please correct the matter of the garlic you just said? Here's the mic.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0196par0479	It's a shame to clap, shame on you!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0197par0480	Please give me an explanation, please.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0198par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0197par0483	Please clarify, Mr. Nebati.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0199par0484	Is it that low? It's out of proportion now, it's a hole in the ground!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0200par0485	These people don't stink! There's no such rudeness!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0201par0486	Mr. President, garlic is a vegetable. What am I supposed to fix?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0202par0487	Mr. Nebati, please make a statement.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0203par0489	Shame on you! Is that a thing? Shame on those who applaud this rudeness!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0204par0490	Mr. President, he needs to apologize.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0203par0491	You're rude!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0205par0492	I'm returning it.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0206par0495	Are we doing theater, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0207par0496	Shame, shame... you don't suit the quality of this House.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0208par0497	You're the one who took the twat off!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0209par0498	Shame on those who applaud and those who laugh! Shame on you! You're eating the bread of this House, and you're eating the Nema. You're being rude!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0207par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0210par0501	Here you are, Mr. Oktay. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0207par0503	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, this Congressman may have smelled garlic until he got on the stand, but from the moment he opened his mouth, he released an unbearable smell.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0210par0504	Please, Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0207par0505	I resent him!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0210par0506	Please, Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0207par0507	Can you remember the words he used when he addressed the MPs here yesterday?
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0211par0508	It is your duty to maintain the dignity of this House.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit03spe0210par0510	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 40, where we left off. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. Ramadan Can is a member of Kırıkkale MP who has asked for a personal word on the third article of the bill. Mr. Can, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0212par0011	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers wish the bill to be a blessing, congratulations on your Eid Day, compliments on all of you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0210par0013	Thank you. Haydar Akar, MP from Marseilles. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0213par0017	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I believe what we have just experienced in the House is a behavior that will not really be welcome, not conform to the structure of the House. Yes, it's in the culture of the Coven, we do it from time to time, but we're out of line, trying to make small talk about matters, not the identity of the House. Other than that, I don't think it's the right thing to do. I also believe that friends who take the stand should be careful of their language. I was told that a number of rights were developed in recent years, that their lives had been facilitated abroad, that two of our friends had just spoken about Turks living abroad in parliament. The main one was the Blue Card. Maybe a lot of my friends in Congress don't know about the Blue Card app. Our friends did not describe this Blue Card. What's the Blue Card for, you have to look at it first. It's a card from the need for the German government to pressure Turkish citizens in recent years, only to pressure Turkish citizens into becoming citizens of one country. Let me tell you the nature of this card: it's given to citizens who want permission to leave Turkish citizenship for German citizenship. The passports and population wallets of Turkish citizens are cancelled and given to them by Law 5200. It is called Blue Card. This document is used for housing, travel, work, investment, commercial activity, inheritance, purchase of moving goods, and rentals in Turkey, it says. Now that's what the Blue Card means. So what did we do? Germany has set up a system for Turks that it does not apply to another country's people, which it does not apply to the citizens of another country. When did he put this in? When did he do it? He's done it in the last five years, when you were in power. What did you agree to? Okay, so Germany is pushing you like this, but I'm going to give you another app by giving you a blue card, giving you a card, and I'm going to accept you as a Turkish citizen. Guys, every time you come here to the stand, you talk about something, you call it the world leader. It is not what is expected of the world leader, it is expected that the other country's citizens in Germany will also grant the rights they have to Turkish citizens, not to give them back their rights. At the moment, the rights of Turkish citizens living in Germany during your reign have been restored, my friends. Not only that, but before, you know, in our culture, you know, Germany lives, but the income takes girls from Anatolia, lives in Germany, but they marry a young man in Anatolia, and then they go to Germany after they've had their wedding. Germany no longer accepts this. See what he says: you will pass the German test. This is not such a simple test. This is a test in German culture called the A1 exam, which requires you to know at least 300 German words. So what are we here for, guys? All our government friends, ministers, lawmakers, who stand on this stand, show everything in pink. Agriculture minister comes out, agriculture comes first in the world, Turkey improves, Turkey's agriculture takes its toll. We cut limos at the victim's, I don't know the engine, 2,000 engines or 1,600 engines? Well, there's another minister, who says we've come a long way this way, that we're from the leading countries of the world. Again, our speaker friends are dating, and in international relations, especially in these countries, our citizens' problems are being resolved, they're being moved to higher levels in their time of power, but when it comes to the truth, we all see together that it's not like that at all. If we don't tell the truth, we won't be able to find a solution. You say that one, you say two, you say three, and the third one says, "Come on, get out of there." What was one of the biggest problems of the citizens of Germany again? There, in the name of religion, let's say religious tandants or associations, foundations, they exploited the labors of those people, collected world-class marks, dollars, euros. There was a mark at the time, and now there's a euro. Here, what are these? Associations such as YMPASS, KOMBASSAN, were foundations. Then our Prime Minister went to Germany...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0214par0025	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0213par0026	Well, friends, I wish everyone a holiday, a happy, peaceful holiday for the families.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0215par0028	Mr. President, Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0214par0029	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0213par0030	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0215par0031	It's not teasing, I'll make a correction. Mr. Haydar Akar probably knows, or the notes on his hand say it's wrong. The Blue Card application began in 1995.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0216par0033	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0215par0034	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Haydar Akar, expressed in a speech that our citizens in Germany met with the Blue Card tyranny during the AK PARTY rule period or during the period of AK PARTI power. The Blue Card application began in 1995.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0217par0036	That pink card!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0215par0037	Look, Germany does not give dual citizenship to any of the countries outside the European Union. No country has given dual citizenship except non-European countries. If I'm not mistaken, in 1997, 1998, we...
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0217par0038	Mr. Mustafa, pink card, I'm telling the truth. Look again, pink card!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0218par0039	Same card!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0215par0040	Mr. Akar, if you'll excuse me, we have two friends who live in pink, blue, abroad, born abroad, we'll look at them, we'll talk to them.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0217par0041	No, they don't, they don't!
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0215par0042	In 1997, 1998, in the Turkish economy, in those years -- I don't know exactly -- when the Turkish economy went into crisis -- we opened up a cashable deposit account to attract deposits for our workers living abroad. Unfortunately, after a question asked by the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey in those years, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey has faced double taxes on people who are German citizens and have deposits in Turkey. Now, we say, Mr. Prime Minister, that yesterday in 1961, 50 years ago, when the workers' agreement went to Germany, 50 years ago, Turkey sent workers abroad for employment 50 years ago. At the moment, 70,000 of our businessmen have been able to employ 350,000 people, including Turks and Germans, in their business in Germany. The size of the number reached 80 to 100 billion euros, which appeared within such a large system. Look, my dear friends, if you had gone to Germany in 2000, in Cologne, in Munich, in Berlin, when you were returning from a corner, when you said to a fallen citizen, "I wish you peace." Our citizens there were described as second class, third class. But if you see me now when you leave, I'm Turkish, a Turkish citizen. When he says that, he becomes proud. On a day of Fasching in Cologne, in 1993, young people are enjoying themselves near Cologne Balluff. A kid with a Turk written on his forehead, like us. I said, "Are you Turkish?" He said, "No." There was a generation there who were ashamed of being a Turk, but now there's a generation proud of being a Turk, of being a Turk. We've all done this together, my dear friends.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0219par0046	There's still some left. It was there yesterday, and it's going to be there tomorrow. These are individual things. Mr. Elitaş, there are still those who are ashamed of being Turkish.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0220par0047	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0215par0048	I thank you. I wish you all the blessings and the blessings of your sacrificial feast.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0221par0051	Mr. President, what Mr. Mustafa is correcting is a pink card, not a blue card. The pink card app is still in effect. There are two types of cards, blue and pink.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0222par0052	It's the same content.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0223par0053	Thank you. Now, we're going to do a ten-minute question-answer procedure. The time for asking questions is five minutes. Mr. Dedeoglu, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0224par0057	Mr. President, thank you very much. I have a question for the Minister, but I think he's leaving too.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0223par0059	You'll lead them to the government, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0224par0061	The total amount of guarantees provided by the MIGA for foreign capital investments in our country through the MIGA agreements is $1.2 billion, US dollars, he says. What is the weight of these investments? If so, what's the production? What's the employment value and added value? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0225par0064	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz? No. Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0226par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. MIGA is a system for investments in risky areas. Is that why the subject was taken into consideration in Oslo's development? Now, during the MiGA contract bill, was it considered to be prepared? Will the state take into account the negotiations when this bill is adopted? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-11-03sit04spe0227par0072	Mr. Secretary, please. Our friends, our Minister of Health, answered the first question, I believe. He answered that these loans would be used on infrastructure investments, energy and transport investments. We'll answer the other subject in writing. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the Open Vote of the Persistent Act on the Amendment to the Multi-sided Investment Guaranteed Convention is the result of an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 214 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Mustafa Hamarat So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report on the Responsibility of the Maritime Agreement between Romania. No commission, no government. Since the commission will no longer be available, it is Thursday, November 10, 2011, at 14 p.m., to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
