tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we're going to talk. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly, and I'm teaching it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Friday, 09,12,2011 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 21 October 2011, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici and his friends (108 rows) suggested that the implementation of the HES project, which is being read during Friday's presentations, in order to examine the negative effects of our people, our natural environment and water resources and in all aspects of the measures needed to be taken, be carried out by the Parliamentary Research Front, which was given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Congressmans, in favor of the group proposal, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, sir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0002par0017	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs began budget talks on December 8th. Until the end of the budget talks, because the Council of Counsellors is a calendar that four parties have decided together, including the Speakership, with the Secretary General, with the agenda, with the speakers. Now, he wants to break this calendar with a three-party motion. I now have a motion signed by the EC PARTY and the CHP. According to this motion, instead of changing the budget arrangement and changing the budget arrangement, between the budgetary talks, we will immediately download the law, known as the "Skike Law" to the General Assembly within 48 hours of public opinion and pass it between these budget talks, while the nation sleeps, sleeps, sleep, sleep, and sleep. What ethical rules do these friends conform to, and what Civil Law does they agree with? In what budgetary period have three parties proposed on their own and put pirated law proposals between budget talks so far? Look at the history of the Republic. You can't see any period other than the 24th period, when you're a pirate in the budget talks and you're allowed to negotiate the law in a pirate way. Now, here's the President's veto on this Law, and we, the Peace and Democracy Party, have made it very clear that we called it the Parliament General Assembly at the commission stage and yesterday's commission. So, what is the reason for the love and enthusiasm of the three party groups to come to this House after morning prayer, after the hours of the imam's night prayer? They come out here with a motion and they talk. Look, during the budget period, during the budget negotiations, I'm very clear that during no budget meeting, the party groups didn't function. My brother vetoed the President by participating in part of our motives. IN THE AK PARTY, there were voices that were opposing, that's natural, is there anything in 350 lawmakers, 340 MPs that would make everyone think the same? I know there are some sounds in the CHP; it's in the mp. On the one hand, you make a group decision, you impose upon your groups, and you impose on the will of the House's MPs one by one, and then -- God heals -- the Prime Minister is disturbed, instructs you at home. Mr. Bozdağ is here as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Parliament, and it is announced that Mr. AKP members of the group say: "We stand by this law against the President! You can be, it's your business. You can stand up to the President, you can stand by the Law, you can lower the fines, you can talk about mob ties, whatever the bullying, the trillions that are spinning, all of them in this House, but it won't be a disgrace. No leader should rule over the MP's will in this House. Unfortunately, the main opposition, the MHP, contributed to that. You guys shouldn't have done that. I'm already paying attention here, they're praying on the opposition side, and the AK PARTY people are doing two more interviews: 1 interview goes to the AKP, CHP, and 1 interview goes to the MP; it says, "May God keep these two oppositions in check."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0003par0023	Mr. Hasip, all your talks are based on prayer and prayer. What's the reason for this change?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0002par0024	I mean, guys, I really don't want to... Look, guys, on this motion, we, the Party of Peace and Democracy Group, did a first in budget talks, and we downloaded our research proposal on the HESEs here. Why? You've made this mistake, and since this agreement is broken, I'll come to the budget meetings every morning with a motion to investigate. I'm going to have them counted here. Since this understanding has a mindset, I'll come with a research proposal every morning with his teacher in this House. Is that what you want? Is that what you guys want? Are you going to like this? It's 11 a.m. every day. I'm going to ask for an advisory council at 10:00 a.m. before 00 a.m., and I'm going to come every day with a motion. Is that what you want? That's how I'm going to punish you in the House. This is the Code of Stricts in Parliament... Every day until the end of December 21st, I'll have a motion, and interesting motions. You guys are gonna talk about this every day before the budget talks, and we're gonna talk about it. Look, the HES. You know, maybe you don't care about the hydropower plants. There are no streams left in the Black Sea, in the Prime Minister's hometown of Rize. From the south to the twindere, and from the twindere, to Shavshat, to Artvin, to Hopa, to all sides, with his mining licenses, HES licenses, and his bags, and forty-eight thousand mining licenses. It's in its nature, it's in its nature, it's in its decline, it's in its ecological balance, and everywhere the citizen resists it, it's in its democratic response. The people who live in those villages, the people who live in that area, all of our people are fighting back. In Hopa, in Artvin, in the Black Sea, the courts decide not to talk to the 16-year-olds' families. That's how the law works, on the one hand, the CED reports are completely against the law, and on the other hand, the streams in the songs of Shevval Sam, which he considers to be the property of the state, so that in the songs of Kazim Baycu, those shiny, sizzling streams, that beautiful nature, that nature is being destroyed, and so that two people in that region can flow into the pockets of money. And you're saying that we need energy, we're connected outside, it's resource energy. It's not resource energy, guys, it's not resource energy, it's terrible exploitation energy. The way the colonial countries exploit their mines, streams, rivers, is a repeat of the method in Turkey, where they exploit countries that have not developed or developed. There's still a year and a half left for the acquish of the European Union. Once these rules are signed, no foreign company will come here looking for gold, setting up HES dams or other dams. We're watering down Hasankeyf. E, Ilisu Dam, GAP project... Forty years, brother, for 40 years, the technique has developed, the world has changed. If you think of it as HES, you can set up five or six HES quotas at Hasankeyf's Ilisu Dam of Hasankeyf, and save Hasankeyf, and you can create a project that will provide twice as much energy as its historical settlements. But the Prime Minister was against it, and one day we looked at him, and the Prime Minister advocated the drowning of Hasankeyf. Zeynel Abidin Temple, those mosques, those inn houses, those beautiful bridges. Mr. Finance Minister had promised -- they were printing money -- the money that was on the picture of Hasankeyf -- at the time, the Finance Ministry -- was going to print it, so that even if Hasankeyf was underwater, our children would look at that picture, he wouldn't keep it. Now, we'd like to look into that, folks. We want to protect our history, our culture, our nature. We want to deal with the good stuff from now on. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0004par0035	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Nurdan Şanlı against the motion, Ankara MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0005par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Pledge of Peace and Democracy. I salute the grand jury. We are not participating in the group proposal brought by the Peace and Democracy Party for changing the General Assembly agenda due to the 2012 budget talks programme. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0006par0043	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. In favor of the proposal, Mr. Muharrem İnce, Yalova MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0007par0046	Congressmans, I salute you all. Now, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, there is a debate in society. Mr. President vetoed us. We're standing behind him. There are members of the group who say, "There are MPs, there are political parties, this debate is being asked to end." So it's not the first time, but if you look at the history of Parliament during budget talks before, there's been talks about proposals, proposals, proposals, proposals on the issues of political parties, the ruling party. It's always happened.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0008par0048	It's not urgent for us, but not for the public.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0007par0049	This Assembly has two main tasks: to act in law enforcement, to act in control. Perhaps the most important mission of this House, the Grand National Assembly, is to budget. It's the most important mission of the House, the reason for our existence, the debate of the budget. Now, there are two important traditions about the budget. It's not written in the Civil Law; it's not the opposition if he wants to. One: In budget talks, the opposition does not bring group proposals; they follow the program exactly; it's polite; that's the tradition of politics, that's the trend. Second: Opposition does not require roll call in budget talks. Unwanted. That's the way it is. I've been a congressman for nine years, that's how it was, so I asked the old lawmakers, and they said the same thing. At times, if there are tough arguments, they don't want roll call, they don't do that. That's the way the Coven lives. Even in the midst of the harshest debates, the opposition has never been able to bring a group proposal to interfere with the programme, to block the budget by asking for a roll call. This is the first time this has been tried by you. It's your appreciation, your group's appreciation...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0008par0051	What's this? What's this?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0007par0052	...but I have an answer for you if you say anything to the Republican People's Party over this. I haven't understood your change in two months, and you've been adorning all your conversations with religious rituals. In every conversation, there's the immaculate, the ezan, the book, the God, the chami. I can't understand it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0008par0054	Is it bothering you? It's Friday!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0007par0055	So I don't know if it's a special project, if it's a special project, if it's a special election propaganda, if it's a special instruction.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0008par0057	We may have received instructions from the Kandil.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0007par0058	Yes, I was applauded by the AKP for the first time in nine years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0008par0060	That looks good on you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0007par0061	So, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, you are in no position to speak to the Republican People's Party. You may not abide by the customs of the House.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0008par0062	Did you guys fit in?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0007par0063	So you say, I bring group advice and I want roll call. You know, you can say that, but if you start talking to the Republican People's Party about it, I have a lot of things to say to you, and I don't want to use all the time, because that's what we agreed. I think standing by your word, following tradition should be the most fundamental basis of politics, the first condition of politics. I salute the MPs.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0009par0067	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Against the proposal, the final word is Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0010par0070	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We cannot agree with the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party, which the Constitution has submitted under Articles 98, Parliamentary Civil Charter 104 and 105, and we object to the reasons for the group proposals. I offer you all my compliments, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you, Mr. Can. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, the Justice and Development Party, the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party have a joint proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 09,12,2011 meeting on Friday (now), we would like to submit the following proposal of our groups to the approval of the General Assembly. Ahmet Aydın Emine Ulir Tarhan AK PARTY Deputy Group Chairman CHP Deputy Leader of Group A review of the report on the return of the 103 Orders Numbered President and the Justice Commission Report, published by the Printed Papers List, to be renegotiated to the 1st ranking of the Law Bills and Proposals of the agenda and Other Affairs Parts of the Commission, and the order of other jobs according to this one. The General Assembly said Friday (9/12/2011), according to the Budget Talks Programme, that it was on the public administration budget. After the completion of the tour talks, the duration of the work of the Agenda's Law Bill and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions has been extended until the completion of the overall vote of the 103-point jobs in this section. It's recommended. Members of parliament, in favour of the proposal, Mr. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0012par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. With our group proposal, or rather the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party and the EC PARTY Group's proposal, you know, there was an offer to prevent violence in sports at 80 places. The proposal came with the signatures of deputy leader of the EC PARTY group, deputy leader of the Republican People's Party, deputy leader of the National Movement Party and deputy leader of the Party for Peace and Democracy. The Deputy Director of the Peace and Democracy Party for the Justice Commission has withdrawn its offer. This came as an offer and became a law with your votes. After the law was passed, it became Law 6250. He went to our President, and our President vetoed this Law. It's our president's will, and we respect his appreciation. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the President's extradition statement was discussed yesterday at the Justice Commission and discussed at the Justice Commission. The Justice Commission again accepted the same text and landed at the General Assembly. In 48 hours, we ask that the General Assembly be brought to its agenda and discussed today. This was taken by alliance; the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party agree with the group's proposal. That's the agenda, and hopefully we'll discuss it after today's talks of the budget are completed. Of course, with your votes. We'd like to offer your appreciation. The group wishes that our proposal be accepted, and I salute you all again with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0013par0098	Thank you, Mr. Can. Farid Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0014par0102	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, in the budget tradition, as Mr. Encel said, this is the first time I've met in nine years. It's usually the budget for all of us, it's discussed in commissions, we say all kinds of things, we say all kinds of things, we say all kinds of things in the budget. The will of the House is above all else, we must all believe it, the will of the House and the will of the nation. But in such cases, I would expect that, Mr. Secretary, for those arrested MPs, in some way, we should respect the will and the will of the people, the will of the nation together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0013par0105	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. In favour of the proposal, Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0015par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, a law proposal passed earlier, adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, was under law, but the President used his authority under the Constitution. Now, the Commission was discussed last night, so it is beneficial for Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly to present its will as soon as possible for such an intense proposal of law. In this regard, I think it would be wise for the three groups to meet today with the signatures of members of the group. In this regard, I would like to say that I support the proposal of a joint chief group to discuss this law today. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0016par0113	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Against the proposal is Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0017par0116	Now, friends, you're looking forward to it. You'd be thrilled to see these three party groups talking so short, wouldn't you? But now you're going to disintegrate these budget talks, and we're going to have a word, and we're going to talk for a minute, okay, guys? And I know you're going on Friday, but he's got time, so take your time. [[Laughing from the lines of the AK PARTY]] Now, anyway, this merger, this solidarity, this thing against the fixers, this sports mob, they're all gonna get out of this punishment, and they're all crying out for recognition right now, and they're just waiting for that law to come out of the blue. Now, I'm looking, for God's sake, why didn't you wait 48 hours? In the Civil Code... the law of the Commission comes out at twelve o'clock in the morning, and goes down to the House with its morning prayer. Then you say: "Yesterday he went out at night, and this day we shall take up the law of deceit in the night prayer. " Look, if you perform a hundred acts of circumcision, he will not cleanse you of your sins. Let me be clear, don't do this. Look, the Prime Minister is sick; you have his appreciation, your loyalty. He's bossy, he's organized, he's Prime Minister, and I know he does what he says. But since the President has joined our cause and has written a veto, don't shake the mansion so much; it's a shame. Look, I'll tell you something else. Whenever the AK PARTY says: "This law does not come out. Let your hands be on your guard, 20 days at the most. " The prime minister said, "We will not come out next week." The Prime Minister said, "The Suat Sword does not come out." He said, "Mr. Arinc says there is no exit." The Hayati Printer said, "The Valla veto is good." Where's Mr. Shamil? He's not making any noise. Why doesn't Mr. Shamil come to the stand and talk about the motion against him? I'm surprised at him, too. He always prefers TV; it's over television, journalism. It's about the chair, the chair, and you'll be on the stand. It's over, it's not on the screen... it's on the screen of Congress, of people. Now look, he didn't come out. You said he didn't. What's the rush? Why are you smuggling stuff from the fire? Why don't you wait 24 hours, 48 hours? Why not after the budget talks? What's the rush, is there a situation, so you've been given time? Who told you, "This will come out today, and if it doesn't, you'll see?" Look, the way this law landed in Congress, it felt like a grab and grab. Next thing we know, it's a slam dunk. We've already warned you, withdraw the offer. Someone said we're behind our signature. Well, well, well, well! We saw how much you were behind your signature in the Civil Code Pants Act. We signed it at the advisory board, and he came here, and he'll be interviewed in half an hour; you've withdrawn your proposal from the General Assembly. We have warned this before the commission has started, the President has joined our warnings. Look, of course, this patent belongs to the AK PARTY of the Shike Act, and it belongs to Minister Suat Kılıç; they're giving you bonuses in the CHP, and you're in a very popular and pragmatic approach. Now, why are you saying the citizen didn't freak out? That's what these budget talks tell us. What are you doing? You're raising no noise, you're driving no sound, you're dragging no sound, you're handcuffing no sound, you're gasting no sound; walking, no talking, no talking, no writing, no writing, no organizing, no union building, no association, no talking about clouds in the air. After that, the citizen gave us 49.8%. He gave you 49.8%, and he didn't give you the majority of the company, bro, and you need 51 percent of the company! Oh, my God! Even the company needs 51. Now, you're trying to complete it by taking the CHP and the MPP. Now, look, you've turned this scam into a parliamentary scam, and now it's like this, you're gonna get it out, you're gonna put it in your head. I don't know, that's what the Prime Minister said, but the other parties seem very keen on it. Now, let's look at the pardons in the short term: this law has not been passed for six months. Eight members of this House are inside. When eight MPs are inside and two of the CHP's MPs, one of the MP of the CHP, five of our MPs are under arrest, the ruling party doesn't move on this issue, there's no problem; it's a Parliament that doesn't take care of its own member. The elected mayors are a separate issue, journalists, the opinion, the press... Look how pardons develop in this country. Now, during the AK PARTI administrations, tax pardons were made, not one, not two, but three, how many pardons have been granted, bonus pardons have been granted, illegal construction pardons have been pardoned, sentences have been pardoned, charges have been dropped on TK240 duties, charges have been reduced; selection, steps have been opened in the bureaucracy; disciplinary punishments have been pardoned, zoning pardons have been granted; forest crimes have been pardoned, forgiveness has been granted to the miners, but the children who are currently getting their hair cut off in the Hopa case are being arrested. How's your conscience? Is that a tin conscience? Is that a tin conscience, guys? It's a conscience. Students protesting events in Hopa, the university are currently on trial at the Ankara Courthouse for membership in the organization because they have their hair cut. Does your conscience agree? He's lying for three years because he's wearing a Pushi, because he's singing, because he's singing, because he's singing, because Ape Musa said he's whistled, you're still taking people in for terrorism, you're still saying: "Terror, terrorist, singer, singer, singer, singer, hair cuter, victim, writer, author of books, writer of books, author of ideas, writer of ideas," "Ape Musa" as he said, "You're still bringing people in for terrorism, instead of five people in a prison cell, you're lying in three rows in a row, while you're not in prison, and you're not in prisons, you're looking at political prisoners, you're going to turn your eyes into the parliament, and you're going to look at those who've been caught in the wrong. Look, I can only say one thing, and God will forgive you. May Allah forgive you! After tonight's night prayer, when this law comes...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0018par0133	After the prayer of Teheccud!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0017par0134	...if I don't have you trained by morning prayer, they won't call me Hasip Kaplan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit01spe0019par0136	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Congressmans, I submit the joint group proposal to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0019par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law bill in 2012 on the Central Management Act in 2010, where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now it's time for the AK PARTY Group. First speaker, our Ağrı MP, Mr. Ekrem Çelebi. Mr. Çelebi, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0020par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I share with you my views on the President's budget for 2012, I salute you all. Without a doubt, the Republic of Turkey has always been the seat of the Republic of Turkey as a representative of the state, an institution of the eyes of our nation and of our state. From our first president to our current president, he has always been more than a daily political debate and assessment of the ability to represent the state. The same will be true for our future presidents. Because, just as this great Parliament is the highest representative of the nation, if it's saintly and valuable, then the office of the presidency is the highest representative of the state, it's sacred and precious. Moreover, our next president will be a president who will be elected directly by the public. That will add value to our democracy. Mr. President, we have discussed the President's 2012 fiscal year budget in a comprehensive way in our Plan and Budget Commission. Some of our fellow lawmakers have also had comments on the budget. As a member of parliament here, I would like to make it clear that Mr. President Abdullah Gul has performed a highly successful performance at the point of representing our country all over the world on both domestic visits and public integration. It's not just us, it's everyone in and out who's a little objective. We must submit our assessments of the presidential institution to the right of this situation. The President's 2012 budget was presented at the Plan and Budget Commission. The President continues to visit abroad and abroad each year with an increasing performance. We are all aware of the great contributions these visits have made to our country's efficiency and vision, to our unity and unity in our homeland. Without a problem with integration with his nation, sharing pain -- as with the latest Van and Ercish earthquake -- has been charged with an important mission to boost morale and motivation. With his exemplary life, his broad vision, an important statesman continues his mission as a trustworthy human being. We, as representatives of the nation, bear witness that when we go to our constituency zones, our President has received a very positive response from our citizens, the unifying, moderate, constructive, and outside, the steadfast and zealous attitude that protects Turkey's rights and laws. In this, Mr. President's efforts as a public figure to integrate the Republic and the state have been significant in its efforts to open the doors of his office to the crowd. Given the historical transformations in our region, the major economic crisis of Europe, and the economic situation in the region, which is also based on the eurozone, we'd better understand that Turkey is coming out of a very delicate period. As the world shakes, Turkey renews itself, improves its development and development. As a country, we've had some serious breakthroughs, and now we're trying to master the process. I'd like to share with you once again the thought and the faith that we're going to succeed in this. Of course, there is a significant contribution from our President, Mr. Abdullah Gul, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister, and the staff with a sense of harmony and rhythm, especially of our high-value ministers. In these historic days, Mr. President's foreign visits directly contribute to Turkey's international vision and political power. No doubt this is all very important. A dynamic, neutral, constructive, and active president, who is growing and raising the flag of this developing Turkey, our government, our Parliament, especially our President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, Mr. President is a responsible statesman who has always been constructive and compliant in both political life and academic relations. On this occasion, I wish all state institutions, especially the presidential budget, that the budgets of 2012 be good and good for our nation and our state, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0021par0019	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. The second word is Mr. Nevzat Pakdil. Here you are, Mr. Pakdil.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0022par0023	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have been promised to express the opinion of my person and the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute your grand delegation, wishing that the 2012 budget would bring blessings to our country and our beloved nation. As it is known, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is carrying out its duty to legislature, control and representation on behalf of our nation. This great roof, which the will of the nation has fulfilled, means a great deal to all of us. It is possible that the nation's will, which is the indispensable element of democracy, is fully reflected in the Parliament, when representatives of the nation fully reflect on the decisions they have made. In recent years, in parallel with the rapid changes around the world, we've demonstrated intense work under this roof to keep up with these changes and to become pioneers, and we've made important laws. Thanks to these laws, the biggest reforms, innovations and changes in recent years have been made. Our Parliament, inspired by national will and power, has worked hard to strengthen our country's development, our democracy, to raise the standards of human rights and freedoms, and has worked hard to bring our country to a higher level. During the 22nd, 23rd and 24th legislature, the laws of our great Parliament, the Constitutional amendments, and the latest September 12th referendum have taken place in a whole new era that extends the scope of democracy and freedom. Many new regulations have entered our lives, leading to democratisation and civil Turkey. During this period, a parliament was formed that was more open to national will, people's voice, feelings and feelings. Our Parliament, which accepts no power over the will of the nation, will continue to work for the national will. I sincerely believe that the new constitution, which has begun its work in the co-ordinator of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and is planned to be completed in the next process, will embrace every part of the community and open the way for Turkey. In the same way, I would like to see the amendments to the Civil Code, which will make Parliament's work more efficient, taken care of as soon as possible. Honourable lawmakers, I want to point out that the political institution's reputation can be raised by our joint efforts. I think that we should avoid the behavior and speech under this roof, the actions that will bring about the law and dignity of one another. Dear lawmakers, we passed legislation last week in Turkey's National Assembly Executive Service Act, which aims for a specialisation of information and technical support needed by lawmakers during the General Assembly and commission work, and a more active and more efficient administrative organization. In addition to administrative and expertise, Turkey's Grand National Assembly President will be provided with the necessary working environment and infrastructure services for lawmakers. I hope that with the introduction of the new public relations building, which is of great importance in terms of working conditions, and is being built to make the best use of technology's resources, we can be able to do better with the introduction of the new public relations building, which includes offices and meeting halls for 522 MPs, which include social donuts. Honourable lawmakers, as lawmakers, have been facing an important issue of parliamentary diplomacy in recent years. The change in communication and transportation has also affected international relations, and parliaments and lawmakers have become actors in multi-directional foreign policy. The bridge of national representatives among nations, the participation of lawmakers in state-level policies and talks as representatives of the public and as the voice of the people, of course, will contribute to the creation and preservation of a more peaceful, democratic world. In this framework, our High Council has also taken an active role. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a member of 11 international Assemblys, and a founding member of three Assemblys. The last legislature was a period when Turkish lawmakers had a say in international titles and forums and were elected to important tasks. A similar situation arises in groups of friends. I am confident that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will continue its parliamentary diplomacy activities at the same speed in the 20th term, through international commissions, particularly the residency commissions, and the 102 friendship groups established already. Honourable lawmakers, on this occasion, wish the budget to bring blessings to our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0023par0036	Thank you, Mr. Pakdil. Now it's time for Ankara MP Mr. Fatih Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0024par0041	Mr. President, the honorable members of the Honorable Assembly, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Financial Budget Bill 2012. On this occasion, I give you all my regards and respect. As it is clear, parliaments are among the first priority institutions in the mandatory conditions of a representational democracy that emerges with modern nation states. As representatives of the public, parliaments are the most obvious and key instrument of sovereignty, not of a particular group or of people, but of all citizens. Parliaments are bodies where social preferences are transformed into political choices, political decisions through the political institution; parliaments are the platforms where the will of the people lives. Parliaments are representations, power of attorney and trust institutions. They are representative institutions because they are the representatives elected by the people; they are power of attorney, because the public gives power of attorney to the elected here for a period of time to determine their own destiny; they are trust institutions because parliaments are entrusted to the will of the people and are appointed to serve the people with the resources of the people. The basic condition of modern representational democracies is that political decisions that turn into public policy should be taken by representatives and through the elected by the public, which means decision-making and use of public resources should only be made by the chosen ones and only the chosen ones. While the world is worn out in democracies, parliaments lose power and reputation, representational institutions have to look at what is happening in Turkey as they fall back between technocratic institutions and market forces. Thus, compared to the incident, it will be clear how Turkey's National Assembly's reputation and effectiveness has increased over the past decade. It is the founding body of the Turkish Republic of Turkey, which represents every region in Turkey, with a high plurality. The Republic was founded by this Parliament, this Parliament founded the army, and this Parliament gave the War of Salvation. So the Republic of Turkey was founded not as a bureaucratic republic, not as a military republic, but as a parliamentary democracy, but as the Veteran Assembly was disbanded in 1923, until 1950, the Parliament established exclusive sanisses, representing its will from the Turkish Grand National Assembly to the Republican People's Party. It was a real and legal blow against the founding will, and the nation responded with a white revolution in 1950. Those who disregarded the will of the nation and the founding doctrine of the Republic of Turkey on May 27, 1960 have locked the door of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as he called it, in the name of Ataturk. If there's going to be a trace of the party government, it should be searched around here. From 1960 to September 12, 2010, Turkey had a period of actual bureaucratic oligarchy. During this period, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has functioned or been forced to act as an authority only to legitimise the decisions of bureaucratic oligarchy. The Turkish Grand National Assembly, which has been vacationed every decade and is often threatened with deposits, was reduced to the certification of the bureaucracy, and the Constitution has stated that the government will use its sovereignty by the hands of the authorities, although it has written. These bodies could occasionally be high judicial bodies, and occasionally armored brigades. The judicial bodies, claiming to have made a decision on behalf of the Turkish nation, were unfortunately able to send a prime minister to the gallows, supported by the Turkish nation by 58 per cent. Unfortunately, the House wasn't even first among the equal. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were at the bottom of the polls when the EC PARTY came to power early on November 3, 2002, and politicians were not trusted. Politics is the mechanism of creating and dispersing, and Congress, unfortunately, has become a platform for that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] AK PARTY, above all, with a higher leadership skill...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0025par0050	Mr. Hawk, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0024par0051	...expanding the political field, putting the House at the center of the decision-making process from a new perspective on the political institution.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0025par0052	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0024par0053	So, as the AK PARTY Group...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0025par0054	Yes, Mr. Hawk, please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0024par0055	I say we vote in favour of parliament's 2012 fiscal year budget bill, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0025par0057	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0026par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0025par0059	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0026par0060	I agree with the 10th budget talks in this Parliament. The tradition of budget talks is that the opposition doesn't want to check, that during the budget talks, the Council of Counsellors doesn't want, does not bring the group proposals, in return the opposition lawmakers criticize the budget from the bench, criticize the power, and the power is this tradition, it's not the written Internal Law clause -- it gives its answers in return, but what we need to do is to abandon the roots of the Republican People's Party, the history of the People's Party, starting with these criticisms from the 1920s, if they continue with these insults. We leave them, we bring in group advice every day, all programs fail. Our friends make their decisions, do they want that, or do they want a traditional meeting? Let them make that decision themselves, and let's proceed accordingly.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0027par0061	Mr. President, Mr. Slim, he's threatening the House, is that possible?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0028par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0029par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0028par0064	During these tour talks, our second MP spoke and did a political analysis, an analysis. You could call it a sociological and social analysis. I'm amazed, don't friends in the Republican People's Party ranks take this test with understanding or tolerance? This is our friend's meeting. He put it up in this House. We, the AK PARTY, are open to criticism as a ruling party, but we will not tolerate insults in the name of criticism. Mr. Group Chairman, please do not threaten the AK PARTY, the ruling party. We respect the facts, but we never allow threats.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0029par0067	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0030par0069	I didn't threaten the ruling party, I wouldn't dare threaten it, I would never do anything like that, I would never do it, I would never do it, I would never do it. I just gave you a warning, are we going to conduct the negotiations traditionally or are we going to abandon tradition? I gave him a warning. I didn't even think about the threat.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0029par0070	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0031par0071	Sir, it's not a question of whether or not we follow the rules, whether we criticize the CHP or not, and let them know that. We have the right to criticize.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0032par0072	Criticizing is one thing, altering history is another.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0031par0073	Let them respect that, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0033par0074	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0034par0075	I have more experience in the House than Mr. Gardendoor, and I may not have learned enough about tradition, and I can't say anything to him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0031par0076	I respect that there's more to the board, and there's only one thing I don't respect, is to assume that you know and say certain sentences when you don't know.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0033par0078	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0035par0080	Mr. President, if it's appropriate, it would be better if you suggested that the AKP and CHP members hold this argument on the stand, so that's how you keep bringing it up, so...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0033par0081	Mr. Vural, for taking less time like this, I'm asking the members of the group, in fact, to act according to the Civil Code and to comply with the Parliament's rules. We're doing just fine, with this atmosphere going on, I guess I'm hoping we'll do the next task easier. So, now it's time for Mr. Shuay Albany, our Elazığ MP. Mr. Albany, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0036par0085	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the Court budget for the 2012 Financial Budget Law talks. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute you all. Parliaments need professional support for auditing, so it comes as an obligation to control and monitor, and that obligation is fulfilled by higher control institutions that control for Parliament. Thus, this obligation also constitutes the reason for the Turkish Court's existence. The Court stands before us as a remarkable event that was established in the Ottoman period in 1862, with a long history. The Court is a constitutional institution organised in the Constitution in the third chapter, titled "The Basic Organs of the Republic." In the modern world, the understanding of state and public administration is based on the principles of transparency, accountability, participation in government. Accountability and transparency are essential principles for public administration to serve its purpose -- in other words the needs, demands, and expectations -- and to serve in a way that is efficient, effective, law-abiding, honest, and involved. He can account, and the collateral of a transparent administration is undoubtedly in the Court, which controls the name of our Assembly. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been adopted by the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018 in the Turkish public financial administration. A change in understanding with Law 5018 in public fiscal management has also uncovered the need for restructuring control. Therefore, Court Law 6085 has been enforced by law. In addition to their current duties, the Court's control area has been expanded to tender all public resources. By handing over the Supreme Control Board to the Court, the constitutional high audit has been held under one roof. It has also opened the way for external control to be adjusted to internationally accepted control standards. In this way, the audit approach, which has not only been satisfied with an audit approach to finding public harm, but has contributed to the development of public administration in accordance with international standards, and aims to produce reports that inform all public opinion, particularly the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Judicially, the Court has made a final ruling on those responsible for not using public resources within the legal frameworks in order to determine the responsibilities of those who are wrong and flawed in cases that are not carried out in accordance with the law and aren't accounted for. This is an important activity. In addition to presenting the Court's reports to Parliament and relevant public administrations, it has also been enforced by the new law to be submitted and announced, and has led to increased public expectations. This is an important innovation and development provided by public supervision. These methods provide efficiency in public spending, preventing waste, thus pave the way for growth to accelerate, and for sustainable development to take place. The expectations of our people are also on this road, and demands are rising. The Court has an important role in the establishment of clean governance in our country, in the rule of law, in providing better quality and effective service and in building a structure that is produced on this road. The role and responsibilities of the Court in the developing Turkey have been steadily increasing. In the name of our parliament, we expect the Court, who therefore supervises for the sake of the national will, to best internalise scientific and technological developments, to reach a control capacity that will set an example for the world under international standards, and thus strengthens our control work, which is our most important function after the law. With these thoughts, I hope our Court and the central management budget of 2012 will be good for our country and our nation. As I finish my words, I wish the Court and its members success, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0037par0097	Thank you, Mr. Albany. Now it's time for Mr. Idris Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0038par0101	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY group on the Constitutional Court's 2012 fiscal year budget. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute you all. Constitutional courts are institutions established in representational democracies to oversee political power in terms of basic rights and freedoms. In accordance with the brake balance system, the upper courts have always been controversial in order to ensure that the legislature behaves in accordance with the constitutions under the basic social contract. It is a matter that must be focused on the relationship of the judicial institution, which controls the legislative functions of this body and the legislative bodies established directly by the will of the nation. In the modern world, the Constitutional Court-type judicial institutions, whose reason is to block the majority's rights to a minority and protect basic rights and freedoms, are unfortunately installed in the Turkish legal system as a product of a coup. It is remarkable that the founders of the Constitutional Court, who for the first time entered our public justice system with the following 61 Constitutional Courts, are members of the High Court of Justice in Flatsia. We have constitutional courts at the head of custody structures designed to oversee, limit, and alter national wills. Unlike the constitutional courts, designed in advanced democracies to block the majority's claim to a minority, we have the Constitutional Court as a stronghold of a narrow bureaucratic oligarchic elite against the nation and against the will of the nation. In Turkey's 1961 to 2010 constitutional referendum, the Constitutional Court's decisions and laws developed in Turkey's Constitutional Court have shown that it has interfered with the will of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which would have won its legislative function, which was constitutionally not in charge of norm control, and that it has sometimes attempted to make law by putting itself in the seat of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, in some way by making binding decisions, as shown in the 367 case. The Constitutional Court has continued to be the most decisive actor within the political institution for years, with its closures, political bans on political leaders, annulling constitutional amendments, and bureaucratic oligarchy has been able to design politics and intervene in politics in this way. The Constitutional Court has sometimes been able to overturn the basic rules of arithmetic as it passes through very controversial decisions in Turkish rule of law, and has even ruled that the seven are greater than 411. The Constitutional Court has become a sort of shield and sword against the people and the people's will of the bureaucratic oligarch, which narrowed down politics by its decisions on behalf of the Turkish nation and made Turkey's Parliament an unauthorized and dependent body. Unlike the Supreme Court, which has based its legitimacy on the will of the nation around the world, the Constitutional Court has contributed to Turkey's falling into deep economic and political crises and has lost its legitimacy in the focus of debates as never before. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important regulations of the constitutional amendment package presented to the public on September 12, 2010 was to return the Constitutional Court to its primary duty, the state of law and its fundamental rights and freedoms, and to protect and monitor the democratic system. The Constitutional Court has been targeted for changes in its mandate, authority and structure, while the Constitutional Court has been excluded from daily political debates and has been identified as a high judicial body. Under the amendments, the Constitutional Court has been removed from the opposition of a particular political opinion to the will of the people and the people, and has been arranged in a way that suits the state of law. A referendum on September 12th, one of the most important referendums in the history of the Republic, and the custodyist political system has been purged and the constitutional arrangements for the functioning of the liberal, democratic legal state have been made. After that, the Constitutional Court became an upper judicial institution protecting and protecting basic rights and freedoms and legal state, depriving the political institution from being an institution that deficient, narrows politics and nullifies public will. As a matter of fact, we are pleased to examine that the Constitutional Court has now ruled out everyday debates and gained the legitimacy that it had lost before. The Constitutional Court will continue its course as a fundamental actor of Turkish democracy and the legal state...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0039par0113	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0038par0114	...and will continue to guide the executive and other judicial bodies, particularly legislation, with the liberal and pluralistic decisions and the decisions he will make. On this occasion, we will vote for the budget of the Constitutional Court for 2012. I express once again that we wish them success in their work, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0039par0117	Thank you. Now it's time for Mr. Yilmaz Bronze. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0040par0121	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Supreme Court's 2012 budget. On this occasion, I salute you all. At the will of Sultan Abdulaziz, the reformer Sultan Abdulaziz, who was organized by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the 150th anniversary of his death...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0041par0123	Abdulmecit is not Abdelaziz, not Abdelaziz.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0040par0124	...the Supreme Court, founded in 1868 under the name of the Court of Justice, has been a court of appeals for 143 years. The Supreme Court of Justice, which has been issued by the courts, and is the final review of the decisions and provisions that the law has not left to another judicial authority, is a high judicial institution tasked with finally resolving the public's sense of justice and carrying out the unity of the court. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY government has targeted the creation of a system of justice that everyone trusts, and have made significant breakthroughs in the field of justice services. First of all, the entire majority of our fundamental laws, which have lost their status in our legal system, have been renewed by the will of our Parliament, and modern palaces of justice equipped with IT technology have been liberated from the basements of the courthouses. In the last nine years, the number of judges and republican prosecutors has increased by 25 per cent and the number of other judicial employees by 55 per cent. To ensure that the justice system can function in a strong and healthy manner, the document for the Justice Reform Strategy is prepared, and for the first time, planned reform is implemented in the high judiciary. The legal arrangement for accelerating judicial services has been adopted by Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and the number of judicial agencies in the Supreme Court has been increased from 21 to 23 (periods) in order to reduce the workload and speed up trials in the Supreme Court, and the number of criminal agencies has been increased from 11 to 15. The judiciary's 2012 budget increased 35 per cent from 76 million to 103m liras compared to 2011. New service buildings have been built for the Constitutional Court and the Prosecutor's Office, but there has been a delay due to the ruling court's decision on the site of the new service building to the Supreme Court. Under the Prime Minister's orders, the process of building new buildings has been accelerated, and in the coming process, it will be restored to a new service building in accordance with the Supreme Court's reputation. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the fact that every discrepancy has been referred to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in the Law Bill of Arbitration in the Law of Law, which is part of the alternative solutions to prevent the courts from going to court, the work that has been carried out in 2005, the work against further implementation of the establishment of reconciliation in the criminal trials, the fact that the institution of public supervision will take place in our Constitution, and that the institution will be put to work in the first-degree courts, and that the justice system of justice will be brought to work in the high judicial bodies of the first-level courts, which will be brought to speed. After the September 12, 2010 referendum, it is also a pleasure for our country to take initiative from all institutions that conduct the trial and to cooperate constructively towards effective outcomes. While there are those who are uncomfortable with the principles of independence and neutrality as the rule of law grows stronger, our nation is very observant of what is going on. No one should be disturbed by a judgment today that shows that everyone is equal in the eyes of the law, no matter what adjective, from those who are doing wrong things in our country, from those who are making dark plans against the nation. As in all areas, our country will continue to move forward with the establishment of justice, independence of the judiciary, and its neutrality. No one should ever doubt that. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best luck of the 2012 budget of the Supreme Court, our nation, our Supreme Court.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0042par0134	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Now it's time for Mr. Hilmi Bilgin. Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0043par0138	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the state's budget. I hereby salute you and my beloved nation on behalf of my group and myself. Dear lawmakers, in our country, its foundation dates back to 1868, and the State of Sûra, the State at the time, is an important judicial body re-established during the republic, after a period of imperial service. According to Article 155 of our Constitution, it is an active and important part of the administration's judicial audit, as well as an advisory and decision-making body that assists the executive body. It is also the first and foremost court to address the final review of decisions made by the Court of State and certain cases shown by law. The State has a very important role in protecting the state of law and expanding the field of activity, which is the top unit of the administrative judiciary. The legal state is a state based on the rule of law that provides legal guarantees to those who are governed against the arbitrary actions and procedures of the rulers. To obey the law is an obligation not only for the citizen, but also for the state. In this sense, the State of the Constitution, according to Article 155, under the Supreme Judiciary of the Constitution, under Article 125 of the Constitution, shall act in accordance with the Constitution's Article 125, and shall not be able to maintain proper control of the judicial bodies while this audit is being carried out, but the Constitution has also tried to use its authority, as it has been in violation of an important rule of public law for years. Judicial measures, such as decentness control, should be controlled only by the law, without being involved in political responsibility. A contrary situation violates the principle of separation of forces, and this is incompatible with the rule of law. Due to these difficulties, the basic rule of public law was clearly and strongly highlighted that the amendment of the Constitution to the Constitution would not be able to establish a decentralisation of the administrative judiciary due to a public vote on September 12th. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the most important goals of states from the past to today has been the effective functioning of the justice system. THE most important effort of the EC PARTY governments has been to create a system of justice that trusts its citizens. A well-functioning justice system will be possible only in the time of justice and without delay. As of today, the main problem with our justice system is that the trial cannot be completed in a reasonable time. Each process, each case, has its impact on the parties, as well as its social, political and economic consequences. To address this problem, our government has taken considerable distances in studies such as development of human resources, reforming legislation, resolving infrastructure problems, taking advantage of IT technologies, and also significant structural and permanent improvements in recent years through constitutional and legal changes. We all know that our high courts are not proportional to the workload they face. Over the years, apartments and members have not been increased by increasing workloads, and the high judiciary has been left with an unprecedented workload. For the solution to this problem, the State Department and the Supreme Court have increased the number of members and the opportunity for the apartments to work with more than one delegation. In addition to these regulations, the need of the Supreme Courts for prosecutors and examination judges has been resolved by the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors and, as of today, the assistant staff problem has been resolved. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY has taken significant steps in our justice system, which is a guarantee of social order since its arrival in power in 2002. Our topic, our key fundamental laws, have been upgraded on the basis of the needs of the age, technology has been served in the service of justice, and the physical places where the services of justice have been maintained have been improved. In this regard, our provinces, our counties have been restored to new and modern palaces of justice throughout our country. In addition to the first-degree courts of these beautiful places, our high judicial bodies, particularly the Constitutional Court, have also received their share. In this sense, construction of a service building on Ankara-Eskişehir road, with a total of 72,000 square metres of closed space, has begun, and is expected to start in early 2012, hopefully. When this building is completed, our court will have a modern service building. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I complete my remarks, I wish you all the best and the best of the 2002 fiscal year budget for our country, our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0044par0149	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. Now it's time for the MP of Samsun, Mr. Akif Çazatay Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0045par0153	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Prime Minister's budget of 2012. I salute you all. On this occasion, while the Prime Minister's budget is being discussed in the General Assembly, our esteemed President, our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan sends his condolences and wishes for immediate recovery. As the EC PARTY breathed a new breath into politics from its establishment, the Prime Minister brought a really different breath to the prime minister's office and the prime minister's office from the moment he took office. During the EC PARTY administrations, the prime minister's office became a non-public, non-national institution, a problem-solving, project-building institution for Turkey's future, a visionary institution for Turkey's future. The Prime Minister's office, which I had been able to work for a long time, and I've studied internal affairs closely, has been transformed into an institution that is able to intervene with a fast, energetic and dynamic structure, to ensure that the government's organization works in harmony, which is able to coordinate matters as quickly as possible. A period where the Council of Ministers could not meet for months has passed through a period where the Council of Ministers meets each week. Obviously, Ankara was just hours away from Beşıkkale, Çankırya, Eskişehir, and now it has reached a position that can reach Samsuna, Van Gosha, Ağrı, Edirne, Muğlay in minutes. The distance between Ankara and our only eighty provinces has not diminished, but has reached closer to Ankara Kabul, Gaza, Cairo, Baghdad, Melbourne, Toronto, Brussels. Dear MPs, one of the important duties of the Prime Minister's office is the publication of the Official Gazette. At the time, the project of publishing the Official Gazette in electronic media was speeded up, with a total of 24,819 official newspapers published between 1921 and 2000, which corresponds to about 950,000 pages -- transferred to electronic media. The coded legislation, as of the date it took effect, is transferred to the Mevzuat Information System on the Prime Minister's website. MBS will be presented to users for free. Another area of responsibility in the constitution of the prime minister is the archives. The archive is the most valuable treasure of a country, a society, and the greatest legacy it has inherited. The archive is the most important link between the history of countries and the future. Although we have a long and long history of government history and tradition, unfortunately, our archives have not been properly preserved, unconfirmed, and have not been presented to the user's service. It is understandable and unforgivable that he does not claim the heritage of the state, which is such an ancient tradition. In order to correct this situation, a modern national archive site is being built in Istanbul, which has a total of 133,132 square metres of closed space, in order to gather archive units in five separate areas and meet the needs of archivistration. This site is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2012. Mr. President, the total funding offered in the 2012 fiscal year budget for the Prime Minister is 861m,77,000 TL. According to the total funding of this 2011, 83 per cent has been reduced. This is because the ministry of services directly related to and related institutions of the Prime Minister is linked to the ministry of services. Currently receiving transfers from the prime minister's budget are the President of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, and the President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. The amount of transfers to these companies is 132 million, 544,000 liras, which amount to 15 per cent of the budget. Since the investment budget for building a national archive site has been earmarked for $120m, the central budget for the prime minister's central service has increased by 11.2 per cent compared to last year. In 2012, the prime minister's new and dynamic structure will focus more on Turkey's issues, accelerating the solution to problems. As I end my words, I wish that the 2012 Prime Minister's budget would be a blessing to our government and to the nation's service, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0046par0164	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0047par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0046par0166	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0047par0167	Mr. President, the Hatip, of course, states that the Council of Ministers, which has not been assembled for months, has been in session every week, but, of course, when it cannot be gathered, then it cannot be met at the time of the illness of the late Bkent Ecevit Bey... politicians today, as well as the Prime Minister's illness, can bring the Council of Ministers here as a problem. Therefore, remember that your criticism is also a criticism of your own, the Council of Ministers is not meeting at the moment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0048par0168	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0049par0169	He's got a lot to do with it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0050par0170	Thank you, Mr. Vural, it's on the books. Now it's time for Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar. Mr. Gülpınar, here you are, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0051par0175	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Intelligence Agency's Undersecretary of the Central Management Budget Act of 2012.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0052par0176	Start with Oslo, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0051par0177	The National Intelligence Agency was established by Law 2937 to meet the state's need for intelligence. The main task of the National Intelligence Agency is to identify and report to the authorities on time, identifying domestic and external threats to our national security. The National Intelligence Agency, the National Intelligence Agency of 2937, constitutes national security intelligence on its undivided integrity, its existence, its independence and its security, and its elements of its constitutional order and its national power. The agency delivers its intelligence to the President, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff, the Secretary General of the National Security Council and other relevant institutions. The National Intelligence Agency provides the necessary measures for the citizens and public safety, the existence of our country, and the foreign and domestic threats that may lead to their national interests.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0052par0179	You mean he doesn't negotiate?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0051par0180	In this direction, the National Intelligence Agency is taking advantage of the well-trained manpower and the latest technological possibilities to ensure the necessary activity is carried out. Geography, where our country is now, is at risk of many security. Economic and political unrest in neighbouring countries, especially terrorism, are a serious threat to the security of our country. Our security agencies, including the National Intelligence Agency, continue to take the necessary steps at the point where our country will be free from the threat of terrorism, which is particularly disorderly. On the other hand, the internal disturbances in Syria and the flood of refugees towards Turkey are another current security risk for our country. In this regard, developments in Syria are being carefully monitored, and decisions are being carried out by the authorities of our state. At this point, our security agencies, particularly the National Intelligence Agency, are carefully monitoring developments in Syria to prevent any security weaknesses. In addition to these issues, it is part of the mission carried out by the National Intelligence Agency to block the activities of organised crime groups that are taking advantage of our country's geographical position between Europe and Asia, as well as the activities of foreign states within the borders of our country. Today, domestic and foreign centers, which want to harm the national interests of our country, are developing different ways of maintaining their secret activities. However, one of our country's favorite institutions, the National Intelligence Agency, while carrying out its mission, uses the latest technical facilities, such as similar institutions operating in other developed countries, to provide advanced technology. In addition, intelligence officers, I.T. experts, foreign language staff, technicians and various support staff are employed within the National Intelligence Service. In the end, these personnel, who are in charge of the National Intelligence Agency from their top administration to their lowest unit, are making an effort to get state intelligence in time and in the right way to the authorities. In recent years, the National Intelligence Agency has been renovating its vision in parallel with the growing international importance of our country. In order for our country's intelligence needs to be fully and properly met, the Agency has increased the quality of human resources, taking a large number of language-speaking staff. In parallel with this, the MIT also increases its capacity in technical and physical terms. With its renewed vision, qualified personnel profile and advanced technical capabilities, the National Intelligence Agency has risen to a stable position among its international counterparts, becoming the window of our country in its own field. At the point of the protection of our national interests, it is a necessity for the National Intelligence Agency to continue its secret activities efficiently and to continue to increase its technical resources in accordance with the conditions of the day. The use of well-developed manpower and advanced technical resources is accurate and results in the fact that intelligence has been obtained on time. We are all aware that without technical methods and adequate staff, an activity cannot meet the changing conditions of the day and the needs of our country against new international threats. As I end my speech, I would like to wish you all the best of the 2012 budget and the National Intelligence Agency budget.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0053par0193	Thank you, Mr. Gülpınar. Now it's time for Mr. Oğuz Khan Koksal. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0054par0197	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Secretary General of the National Security Council, which is part of the Central Management Budget Act of 2012. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are causing continued expansion of the effects of the globalization phenomenon around the world, and the rapid developments in technology, as well as the scope of risks and threats to the security of countries. With this dignity, the security of our country's national security has become more important than ever. In this framework, the National Security Council and the Federation's General Secretariat Agency perform an important function. National Security Council No. 2945 and National Security Council General Secretary-General's Office (Law) have been defined as protecting the constitutional order of the state, its national existence, its integrity, its international interests, including political, social, cultural and economics, and all kinds of external and domestic dangers. It has been stated that the National Security Council will take advice on the appointment, determination and implementation of the state's national security policy, and will establish an opinion on the necessary co-ordination, inform the Council of Ministers of these recommendations and their views and carry out the duties given by law. In short, the Council of Ministers has been envisioned as the top structure of security, consisting of national security, domestic and external security issues and defence issues by making a recommendation to the Council of Ministers. A General Secretariat organization has also been established to conduct the activities of this Council. Dear members, the first appearance of the Secretary General of the National Security Council in our country was the establishment of the High Defence Assembly's Umumi Clerk, which was founded on April 24, 1933, in accordance with Decision 14443. This Council was organized as the National Defence Council in 1949, and the work of the Council was translated into a general secretary. The Constitution of 61 has also become a constitutional organization and has been reorganised by Law 129. In the years when the Cold War was as intense as possible, countries began to use their political, economic, and cultural powers effectively as well as their military forces to ensure their national interests. In this framework, threats to national security have increased in quantity and quality. Along with the rest of our country, measures that should be taken against threats directly related to the welfare of the nation and individuals have been created as a need, and this has announced the need to redefine national security. In this scope, the National Security Council's Office, which has been reorganised with the Constitution of 1982, has also been detailed by Law 2945, and has become a co-ordinating body for the full range of activities, co-ordination and the Prime Minister to ensure national security in this Law. The Secretary General of the National Security Board serves as an institution that helps the Council of Ministers provide national security. But I'd also like to express a few things in order to refresh the memories of the time we passed a few words about the National Security Council here. While the National Security Council was doing its ulterior work, unfortunately, at times forgetting that it was a constitutional institution, it tried to use its times and powers of guardianship that were not available to all of us in the 28 February process, to overcome its definition of duty and to make decisions that led to debates.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0055par0202	Tell me April 27th.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0054par0203	Meetings by bureaucrats, governors, governors, and trustees are still being held in our nation's memory at the National Security Council meetings, where the issue of the Constitutional brochure has brought down the country's economy. Today, however, with the changes made in 2003, the National Security Council's Secretary General Agency has taken its current form and has been able to improve its original task. At this point, the National Security Council has been demoted to a civilian secretary and therefore civilianized.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0056par0205	You're too civilian, you!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0054par0206	I want to express one thing in particular: I would like to thank the Secretary General of the National Security Council and the employees for their recent good work, and I wish you all the best of the National Security Council budget.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0057par0208	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Congressmans, the talks are complete on behalf of the first round of groups. Now on behalf of himself, Burdur MP Bayram Özcelik. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0058par0213	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself on the first round of the Central Management Budget Talks in 2012. On this occasion, I salute you all. My dear friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is working to improve our country's development to rise to the level of conflicting civilization set up in the establishment of our republic. Our greatest source of power in the work is our nation's hopes, the determination to carry the republic more strongly into the future, the excitement, and our country's achievement in development. As it is known, our House was opened before our republic was established, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the centre of national will, created the basic institutions and infrastructure of modern Turkey. He took the necessary steps to improve and develop our country, offering great contributions and services to the coming of our republic today. From now on, we are all convinced that our parliament will continue to pursue its work in an unresolved and increasing excitement, and that it will continue to fulfill our nation's longings. From our nation's basic expectations, a new constitution that suits Turkey today is one of the most important efforts the Assembly has tried to conduct this semester. Our coven is able to make the new constitution, which is the great hope of our nation, in this period, it has taken its will from the people. Our citizens quickly convey their views and thoughts on the new constitution to our House. With our new constitution with democratic participation, our country will be able to avoid a lot of constitutional debates and problems. From the past to the present, the solution to our problems is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly will resolve our problems by combining the common mind, reconciliation, and mobilising the democratic savings of our country. The power of our parliament, the power of our country and a functioning democracy, is enough to move our country into the future. In the 100th year of the Republic of Turkey, taking Turkey to a more advanced point than it already is is directly related to the constitution in which we conduct preparations. We see that you're aware of the work we've done in Parliament. We must make sure that we can run our parliament more efficiently both in terms of legislature and in terms of effective supervision. At the point where our parliament can meet expectations, everyone has expressed the benefit of a new Civil Code. The construction of the new public relations building, which you have been looking forward to, is rapidly under way, and construction, with three basements, two floors and six normal floors, has been completed in mid-2013, but the talks are scheduled by the end of 2012. We will be together in every effort to ensure that Turkey's Grand National Assembly does its best as an eye-opening institution. Mr. President, it is very important that our esteemed lawmakers visit all provinces. In the provinces, with the governorship, it is encouraging to visit municipalities and universities, to see the public closely, to meet with businessmen, to listen to their problems. And we know that our businessmen who have been on their trips abroad are very interested in them, and we see that our President is sending all his problems to relevant institutions. The fact that our President was visiting Burdur (Burdur) thirty-nine years later, the people of Burdur had a historic day, which would not be forgotten during our President Burdur's visit, showing his love on the streets with smiling faces. Burdur MP and our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy was commemorated by various events at Mehmet Akif Ersoy University. From here, I give thanks to our President, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0059par0225	Thank you, Your Grace. Now, on behalf of the government, our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0228	Mr. President, I welcome you to respond to criticisms made by members and MPs on the budgets of the National Intelligence Service and the National Security Council, including the first round of the 2012 budget, the Presidency, the Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the State Department, the Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board, the National Intelligence Agency and the National Security Council, and to share the views of our government with the Supreme Parliament. I hereby salute the esteemed members of the General Assembly. At the beginning of my remarks, I thank each and every ruling, opposition lawmakers who have contributed and expressed their views on the budget by presenting suggestions, criticizing the start of the talks so far, separately. Mr. President, we're acting on the vision of being an institution leading to change and transformation in the path of becoming a strong country as the Prime Minister. The prime minister's job is to provide the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers with all the support for the overall policy of the government under the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the rule of law, to ensure effective co-operation and co-ordination among the ministries, and to lead the state administration to function in a orderly and harmonised manner. The reform process continues in all areas, especially in the economy. It also uses structural reforms as a supporting tool for fiscal discipline, and thanks to the confidence that Turkey has given its economy to become one of its resistant and shock-resistant economies, we can make long-term plans and look to the future with confidence. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we aim to strengthen our economy by increasing our country's competitiveness, to maintain stable growth, to be among the top ten economies in the world, which we set up as the Strategic Vision of 2023. In the ongoing global crisis, the strong growth of Turkey's economy that creates jobs has been divided in a positive direction from many countries with a steady recovery public financing balance, a sound banking sector and a high-time Central Programme. Turkey is ranked at the top of its global growth league. The public debt of many developed countries has reached an unsustainable point, while Turkey's public debt continues to drop rapidly as a rate of national income. We are one of the few countries that manage to keep both the budget deficit and the debt supply in constant decline trends, excluding the global crisis year 2009. In the 17 countries that constitute the eurozone, the GDP is up to 90 per cent, while we estimate Turkey's EU-defined general state debt stock will drop to around 39.8% of the illegal domestic production rate. We aim to reduce our debt supply to 32 percent by the end of 2014. Mr. President, in today's world, it is now inevitable that every country has a multidimensional and multi-dimensional foreign policy. Turkey's goal is to capture and maintain an active and realistic foreign policy line. Turkey is not in the face of any country, of any society, of any faith and culture, and it is unthinkable. That's the direction of the foreign policy that's being followed today. Turkey does not have an understanding of foreign policy that is stuck in a particular area, in a particular matter. As Turkey, we have the same warm and rational approach to every region, every country, every problem on the basis of peace and friendship. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our understanding of citizen and result-oriented management, will continue without slowing down in the coming period. We'll also develop the central administration's strategy development, standardization, monitoring and monitoring functions. In this framework, we have reduced the number of prime ministers and strengthened the coordination function, which is the prime minister's primary duty, by removing state ministries, we have restructured some ministries. With this new structure we've created, the government has acquired institutions that will provide better services to citizens. During our rule, we carried out important reforms in many areas of Turkey. In education, in health, in transport, in justice, in all areas, Turkey has changed, improved, differed beyond comparison, compared to before 2002. Today, everyone realizes that they are in a different Turkey and that they live in a Turkey in a better place, with better conditions than yesterday. While many of the world's countries are struggling with crises today, it is the natural consequence of these studies that Turkey is a coveted, coveted country at this point, while it has its own problems. In the elections, we account for our service during this period, each time to our nation. On November 3, 2002, we were in power, given the power given by our nation, and we were able to account for the local elections that took place in 2004, and we gave our nation our account in the 2007 parliamentary elections, and our nation called us out and opened up the way to power by increasing our power in both the local administration and the general election. We continued in our ways and in our ministry, with prayer and support from our nation. In this framework, the local elections held in 2009 were brought before our nation, as we again did with the parliamentary elections held in 2011, both in the local administration and in the central government. At this point, our nation also made its assessments, and in the central administration and in central administration, it showed that it continued to trust our party, prayer and support, by increasing its support in the general election. In addition, there have been two public ballots during this period. The public vote held on 21 October 2007 and the public vote held on 12 September 2010 also made an assessment of our nation and opened the way for the adoption and implementation of constitutional amendments by a vote in accordance with our view. All of this is that our faith in democracy, our value in the will of the nation, our value in the opinions of our nation, and that we walk in the same direction as them, are personally approved by our nation. It is unfair to accuse our government, or the group of our government, who, in every act, look at the people's eyes, who work day and night with the desire to keep their trusts which the people have entrusted to them. Because our people have made an assessment of all of this. In this process, we have taken important steps to eliminate problems in all areas of Turkey, to strengthen our democracy, to prove that the nation's word is more valuable, to ensure the rule of law. I consider it a great injustice to accuse a group of people who take these steps, who take these steps in this way, and I leave it to our nation to appreciate it. Our people will surely do what is rightfully due to it. Look what's changed: Now, one of our most important problems in this process was the presidential election. Turkey, when it's going to be the presidential election, we've all discussed with its Parliament, its media, its political institution, its person on the street, its person in the coffee, everyone's been in a great deal of trouble. From time to time, things happened that we didn't desire. Unfortunately, every election turned into a dead end, but in most of the elections, it wasn't what the people said, it was what they said, not what they said, but what they said, despite what they said, it was by the votes of the MPs in Parliament. But we also accepted that we had the power to elect the President in 2007, and we did not submit to any imposition in the presidential election process. Our nation has given us this authority, this trust. We said we'd use this authority and this relic in the direction our nation calls it. You remember what happened. So, April 27th was an e-mutation, followed by the Supreme Court's 367 verdict, but our position, our position, has not changed. Everyone may have expected that in the past, when someone has interfered with some illegal activities, politicians might say, "You can say, "You can leave with your hat on." But they're forgetting one thing: we don't have a hat, we don't have a fedora, we don't have a ride. We're here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0061par0243	Shame on you!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0244	We're here and we've taken care of our nation's trust. Parliament's locked.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0061par0245	That man later became President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0246	After the Constitutional Court's decision, Parliament has become unable to elect the President. Then we've decided to choose by the votes of your grand delegation. We went to our people. The path to democracy is blocked, the road to law is blocked. We don't have the power to open this road. We said, "We've asked the nation for authority."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0062par0247	Speak without lifting your foot.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0248	By the power vested in our nation and by the National Party of Action -- once again, I thank you to the esteemed group's deputy president and the group -- on behalf of our nation -- we have elected a president that the nation wants, along with this Parliament, to Chankaya. This is an important step. This is Turkey's...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0063par0249	No, we didn't. Don't lie, we didn't support it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0250	Sir, correcting, correcting...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0063par0251	We've entered Parliament, done our duty.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0064par0252	You're lifting your foot. I said Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. Both feet on the ground.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0253	Correction, look...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0063par0254	Mr. President, that's not a false statement.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0255	Now, here, the National Movement Party has entered Parliament and allowed this process to work. From that point of view, I'm expressing your support. Okay?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0063par0256	Well done...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0065par0257	We had our own candidate.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0258	So... but if you don't accept the thank you, that's up to you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0063par0259	We're not going to ask your permission, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0260	But it is our duty to appreciate every act that is appreciated. We appreciate that behavior as an important act of respect for democracy and national will. My compliments to the National Party of Action and to those who voted for them. There's nothing wrong here, nothing missing. But in the meantime, we did something else important. What's that? After that, we took the step, not to debate the presidential election in Turkey, but first through a compromise in Parliament, and then by the approval of our nation. What is it? He will now be elected directly by the nation who sent MPs to Parliament, not by the MPs in Turkey. From now on, no one will say that with some kind of pressure on Parliament or other accounts, President, make it the President; neither will democracy or national will be in trouble in Turkey. Everyone will be elected President by the will of our nation, by the will of our nation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0066par0261	When?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0067par0262	Mr. Bozdağ, when is this happening? Do we have a date?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0263	That's how we took an important step, strengthened democracy.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0068par0264	When?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0265	He's being accused of being a fascist, that's what we do. Is it prudish to get people to elect the President, or to claim democracy and the will of the nation? I'll leave that to your high council's discretion.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0069par0267	Who sets the date? Who's going to set the date?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0268	The President continues his service to our country and to our nation from the day he came into office. It could be critics, it could be appreciaters. Of course it will. This is a democratic country. Everything a person does, if everyone approves, everyone appreciates, then there's something else, but if there's criticism, there's democracy. I see this as an important indicator of the healthy march of democracy in Turkey. I'd like to thank my critics once again.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0070par0269	Just like you thanked the hit man by taking a car. Giving a medal to a coupger, isn't it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0270	Now, Mr. Özcelik has expressed himself. For the first time in 39 years, a president has arrived. If you look at the president as if he's just going to sit in Çankaya, sign the following laws or decrees, then you can make it a point to criticize the president's departure from Çankaya. You can criticize her going to Burdur, you can criticize her going to Yozgat...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0071par0271	Are you going to vote no?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0272	You can criticize him for going to Kayseri, Bayburt...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0072par0273	No, no, we're critical of giving medals to a coupger.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0274	But this is the President of the nation; he'll be in public, he'll be in trouble, he'll talk to them, he'll settle down. There's nothing to criticize.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0072par0275	Where's February 28th?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0276	Besides, not only can the President travel abroad but he can travel abroad. When he goes abroad, today, in 155 countries around the world, we have 6.5 million citizens, hundreds of millions of relatives, relatives. When the President of Turkey arrives, those who attend those trips of joy in the eyes of our citizens of Germany, citizens of Austria, citizens of the Netherlands, relatives and citizens of Macedonia, our citizens of Macedonia, those who see the air that these expeditions provide, but they don't, and if we don't, then it's a different thing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0073par0277	It's not the first time in history.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0278	For him, Turkey's growing influence inside and out today, of course, is making significant sense by these visits, and Turkey's power appears in a different way all over the world. Today, Turkey's export -- the 2011 figures haven't been clear yet -- but it looks like it's going to be a record -- is not because our Prime Minister or President has trapped himself within Ankara's borders, but because he sees Turkey as his own concern, as well as the world as business men, academics, and all kinds of authority people. It's not something to brag about, it's not something to criticize. Let the President go, where he's gone, our moon-star flag is flying. Let the Prime Minister go, where he goes, our moon-star flag is flying. I'd be proud of that. Do you remember, in the past, the name of Galatasaray, who was called Galatasaray, was now named after our esteemed Regent Hakan Hallelujah; other than that, no one knew from Turkey's place, the Prime Minister, but today, when he saw Turkey's flag, the world knew about Turkey's Prime Minister, the President. How did we teach that, lying down or working? We did it by working. Of course, Mr. President's visit to the King has been criticised. As a matter of fact, I'm sorry. Why? For a long time, not just for a month or two, but for everyone who's been sick for many years and had a very severe treatment. Even on official visits, the physician is in control, and everyone knows he's in the same condition as when he goes on mandatory visits with that thing. In such a case, it is not humanly criticised or criticised for the fact that a prime minister or president should leave as a courtesy.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0074par0282	Was he in a sick bed, if you love God? How can you look down on the President of the Republic of Turkey? Look at that! He praises the King, but our President is like...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0283	Patient visits and meeting with them are a measure of our civilization in such a situation. Look, Mr. Vural, our Prime Minister is being treated...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0074par0285	Speak properly.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0286	I'm speaking the truth.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0074par0287	You're insulting the President of Turkey here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0288	I'm telling the truth. No one's missing from what I'm saying, no mistakes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0074par0289	You are not the King's representative! You are not a representative of the King of Arabia!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0060par0290	Look, our Prime Minister is being treated, he's disturbed, he's home, he's resting, isn't he? The Vice President of the United States of America has arrived in Turkey. Our Prime Minister had talks, but he couldn't.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0074par0291	Of course he will. Of course he will.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0075par0292	Vice President!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0074par0293	Sergeant, of course he's coming. What about him?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0294	Well, Biden came, visited the Prime Minister at home, met. Our Prime Minister was going to Qatar.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0075par0295	Mr. Secretary, you don't understand diplomacy at all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0296	Qatar Emiri came, met with our Prime Minister at his home. It's a courtesy, it's a rule of civilization. It's not criticized, but it's applauded. When the time comes, others do it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0077par0297	Are you the King's spokesman? If you love God, how can you... look at this!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0298	Of course, it's a very important matter, and I'd like to put it in front of you once again.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0078par0299	When will democracy come to Arabia, Minister?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0300	Dear friends, another matter is not to bypass the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation to issue a decree under the law. Why not?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0079par0301	You've reorganized the government!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0302	Now, we're gonna laugh, but I say Turkey...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0080par0303	I laugh at your ignorance, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0304	Of course, of course, it doesn't take ignorance to take criticism, but information, the information to be given to these critics, reveals that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0080par0305	We laugh at your ignorance, you don't know how to rule the law! It's written by the branch managers.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0306	See, the 91st article of the Constitution does not give the authority to issue a decree on the rule of law. Is this our Constitution?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0080par0307	In extraordinary situations.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0308	Is it in effect, and has the law, according to this Constitution, been discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on the commissions? What was taken from the House?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0080par0309	It's the law of authority!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0310	Talked, talked, timed, timed out, timed out.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0081par0311	What council was it held in?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0312	There were laws issued under that framework. It's not just our time...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0082par0313	Mr. Secretary, how ignorant is that?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0314	I said it in my response to an off-the-book conversation here. Look, the late Ecevit (Ecevit) was a government in 1974, during the First Government, three, then the CHP is in power.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0083par0315	That's the fifth time you've said that, Mr. Secretary. Get over it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0316	Again, 21 in the Third Government of Ecevit, and not that long when you look at it with numbers in a matter of days. Now, another issue: 14 provisions in the Prime Ministership of Demirel, when DYP-DP was coalition power. Later, when Mr. Demirel is elected President, Tansu Ciller becomes Prime Minister, and during his prime ministership, some later after the SHP-CHP merger...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0084par0318	Oh, this is the coalition government of governments!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0319	...it's combined with CHP, but when you look at the collection, when Tansu Chiller was Prime Minister...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0085par0320	What happened to your era of advanced democracy? For God's sake...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0321	...DYP-SHP, a little bit of CHP's power, 75 laws were issued. The DSP, the Homeland Party and the National Movement Party were also issued 51 decrees in the rule of law during the period when they were in power.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0085par0324	About what?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0086par0325	There was an earthquake, an earthquake, a state of emergency.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0326	In our time of power, the number of decrees that we passed within nine years is 35.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0087par0327	You took out 11 at a time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0088par0328	You've changed the whole state department.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0329	These are an authority, and it is in accordance with the Constitution's authority that we use it, and it is not incumbent on the Constitution to bypass the House.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0088par0330	I thought the 12th of September Constitution was a reactionary constitution. Why are you using it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0089par0331	Aren't you ashamed that you're in power on your own?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0332	Look, we presented it to the House...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0088par0333	You're bypassing the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The laws of the law are not correct.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0076par0334	...all of these are now in Parliament because by the Constitutional decree of the Constitution, the decrees of the law shall be submitted to Parliament on the day it is published in the Official Gazette.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0090par0335	Oh, Mr. Secretary, you don't believe what you're saying either!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0088par0336	I thought you were against the Constitution of the Universe.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0091par0337	Why don't you bring it to the council?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0338	Right now, they're all in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0091par0340	You'll be the minister!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0341	Of course, the other thing is, the Supreme Court is one of our high courts. Of course, the Constitutional Court has gone to a different arrangement with the amendments made in the Constitutional Court and the restructuring of the Law on the Institutions and Jobs of the Constitutional Court. Now, when you look at what's new, one of the most important steps in the Constitutional Court has been made through individual application. One of the main reasons Turkey has been in charge of countries with the most lawsuits against the European Court of Human Rights is that the right to individual application is not recognised within internal law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0093par0343	No, it's because you don't translate European Court of Human Rights decisions into Turkish, nothing more.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0344	Now, we gave the Constitutional Court this opportunity. From now on, after our citizens have exhausted their internal legal ways, those who have been violated by the public force will be able to appeal to the Constitutional Court by applying for an individual application. Well, can the Supreme Court handle it? He'll get up. How does he get up? The European Court of Human Rights has one, its own case...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0093par0346	You turned him into a trade, you brought him 2 billion fines.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0347	...all the files from dozens of countries who recognize his authority. Well, how's he taking it? If you knew the two courts' systems, you'd be more comfortable with that. Now, look, individual appeals to the Constitutional Court are acceptable conditions and reviews...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0093par0349	How much will he pay if he's rejected, citizen? He's paying 2 billion fines, citizen. You turned it into money.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0350	...is organised on Article 48 of the Law on the Foundation and its duties of the Constitutional Court and its relevant articles. They'll all be subject to an acceptance assessment first, and it may take some time for this, of course, for the system to sit down, but they won't be able to discuss those who don't have the terms of admission, they'll be returned.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0093par0351	Can you tell me how much he's going to pay?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0352	Anyone who does not like it will be able to go directly to the ECHR.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0093par0353	Does the E.R.A. give fines, and you give them?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0354	But if the others do, what's he gonna do about it? The Constitutional Court will. After that, he will be able to apply to the ECHR. Look, here's another thing: one of our congressman friends said that the law has to do with the decrees... And since it's about the Supreme Court, I'd like to answer it here. And it was said, "No, it's in your rule of law." Why? Because the president voted, the president voted a different decision. In fact, a friend of ours said yesterday as a review was being made about Mr. President: "Immediate, important, mandatory conditions are sought," says in the decree of the law, which is not wanted in this. There were other decisions made by the President yesterday, and there were other criticisms today. I respect all these criticisms, but the Constitution is my guide. I'm looking at the 91st article of the Constitution: is there or is there or is there not a requirement for ruling on the important, mandatory terms of the law? That's not a condition. And who put this in? The Constitutional Court put this in the 1990s, with a number 27 case that came before it in 1991. At the time -- I now have the decision -- Hashim Kılıç has the reason for opposition, says that the opposition has the reason for the opposition: that the urgent, important, mandatory requirement does not exist in the Constitution 91. The Constitutional Court cannot make a constitution by putting its urgent, important, mandatory condition into place of the law. He says, "I am opposed to it." He does not oppose it in the following processes because the Constitutional Court has made the same decision on everything that comes before him. But after a long break, when it comes to the subject again, there is an opportunity to reconsider, and the Constitutional Court changes its view. The courts don't have the right time to say so today, tomorrow the circumstances change, and he can make another decision. Now there's a change of opinion, a change of state. So, any problems with the number of decisions? Now, I'm looking at the 65th article of the Constitutional Court law, which reads the first joke: the General Assembly and departments take their decisions with the absolute majority of those who participate. The equality of the votes is decided according to the opinion of the president's side. I don't say it, but it says the law here. I thought you said he didn't have one. If you don't look at the law, if you just see some of the work, then something might turn out to be different. Therefore, while I was doing the duties of the Constitutional Court in the new era, I have always expressed that it is important for Turkey to develop democracy in favour of human rights, in favour of the state of law, in favour of democracy, in favour of the universal values of law. When you look at democracy in other countries, we see that both the courts, which are in the position of the Supreme Court on criminal rights, as well as the Constitutional Court, are pushing the executive bodies, the legislative organs, and taking significant steps by forcing them to do so, but when you look at Turkey, for a long time, in Turkey -- still -- we see the very conservative decisions of the courts on the issue of fundamental rights, on the rule of law, on democracy, on the rule of law, on the rule of law, on the political institution, on the rule of law. If it weren't for that, there wouldn't have been any shape barriers from these courts to the people who wanted to read it. I want to read the legal state. If you don't wear that dress, I forbid you to read it. He wouldn't allow any court to approve a decision on many matters. I can sort it out, replicate it, put the samples underneath. There are problems in many areas in Turkey. Both the Criminal General Assembly and the Integration General Assembly of the Supreme Court of Law and other Supreme Courts can make strengthening decisions at this point, because the 90th article is obvious, Turkey's distance. So we need to move this distance along with the universal values of the law, but unfortunately we've seen a lot of conservative decisions at these points together. Another thing, dear friends, is about judgment. We took significant steps with the constitutional amendment adopted on September 12th. Many of my dear friends here have criticised: "The judge became the backyard of the AK PARTI. " I've heard of him, and I'd like to share my satire here once again. Well, what we've done is we've made judgment a backyard, and I'd like to share it with you, and I'd like to put it on your conscience scale once again. Let our nation decide that, and let the great Parliament decide once again. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors used to be elected members of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Court. They chose a certain number of members, and Mr. President threw one of them away, and they had two members, who chose the Supreme Court, the State Council. I mean, take it, take it, take it, give it, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, They choose him, they choose him. And can these chosen ones fully represent the judiciary? No. There are thousands of judges, prosecutors serving in the judicial court. There are thousands of judges, prosecutors serving in the administrative court, do they have a representative? No. So, in democracies, people have representatives, people have representatives? I don't have that either. So, what did we do? What we've done is we've increased the number of members to 22. We said: "Let the Supreme Court choose three of these members directly. " In the past, he could not choose directly, but now we have given him direct authority to choose directly. If the Supreme Court doesn't have the brains of the Supreme Court -- September 12th -- I don't think they can choose the best -- let them send three, and I'll choose the other three. It's built with logic, and they can do it wrong. Let him return from the wrong Chankaya. A sense of what is called the wrong Chankaya. What did we say? The Court is competent, has a driver's license, and let the esteemed members of the General Assembly choose the person to represent them directly. Let the esteemed members of the State's General Assembly choose directly those who will represent them. • Discipline and discipline of judges and prosecutors on the stand...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0094par0362	How did you choose the presidents, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0095par0363	Then set up 150 of them!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0364	...a lot of other decisions are being made, transfers, assignments, other authorizations, et cetera. They don't have a say. There's a board that's giving them severe sentences until they get out of business, and they have no say in the formation of that board. We said to the judges on the stand, to the judicial court: "You choose the seven, let the three choose the administrative judgment." But how should he choose the three? Let him choose under the supervision and supervision of the court. Gene gets elected under the supervision and supervision of the judges. Now, the election is happening, and when a citizen votes, they're not smart enough. Here, if the education level is high, the AK PARTI won't come to power. You said that those with higher levels of education make a choice, that the judge has finished the law in this country, that the prosecutor's exam has completed, that maybe for decades, maybe the judge, when the people who have served on the prosecutor's benchs have used the votes, this time it's been pressured, it's imposed on them. Look, these are the concepts of putting everyone in a different category, not a nation of people who respect the will and the nation. Just as the nation used its free will in the polls, the judges and prosecutors who emerged from among the sons of this nation used their votes, used their votes, and made choices. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Now, this shouldn't bother you. The president also casts out four of the lawyers and university professors, and the nation elects him, Mr. President. I wish in a democratic country we could do the criticism here: Why doesn't Parliament choose, the representatives of the nation are here? Why didn't we give Parliament that authority? (Applause from the EC PARTY) In Europe, when parliaments have elected members of the HSYK in many countries with advanced democracy, why didn't Turkey trust the Parliament and put it in this? I expected criticism, but we couldn't put it in, and I wish we had put it in. Hopefully, in the new era, the constitutional studies will allow us to take such a step together. There's no possibility of judgment here, not once, the formation does not allow it. There's a democratic election, a democratic election where there's no way for a supporting structure to be formed, there's no way for a democratically demanding person to come to power in any way they want, and in every election in this country, those who can't get power should understand it better than we do, unfortunately, but it's still being evaluated in a different way. Look, I'll tell you something else: who used to have jurisdiction over the judge and prosecutors? It belonged to the justice inspectors. Where did the justice inspectors belong? It was up to the Justice Department. The minister was allowing it, the inspectors were investigating it. So, what now? The authority to investigate and investigate has now been transferred to the HSYK Board of Inspection. There's an apartment there that's relevant. There's complaints coming in that apartment, they're being investigated. They're the chairman of the Council, the Minister, offering it to him. If they offer a warrant for this or a warrant for an investigation, then the Minister can only be involved. If they don't present otherwise, the Minister has no authority. Now, now, if a minister or a government wants to keep the judgment, can they take one of the most effective structures in the judiciary and give it to someone else? Another thing, the appointment of judges and prosecutors, promotions, etcetera, is done by HSYK. He used to work as a board, Minister of Justice Chairman of the Council. If he wants to attend all the meetings, throw this one over here, put this here. Is he allowed to say that? I do. But do you now? Now he's gone, we've got him up. There's an apartment looking at it. The Minister of Justice cannot head that office, and the members of that agency are from judges, prosecutors, the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the Academy of Justice. Now, would a government that wants to take over the judiciary hand over all jurisdictions, prosecutors, appointments, discipline, etcetera? We handed it over. Why did we hand it over?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0096par0368	For taking them all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0369	For our hearts have been burned, and our hearts have been burned, and the years of this land have been lost. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I want to express one thing in particular, both in terms of the AK PARTY and in terms of all parties: If a country has a judiciary, it's not a disaster in that country, it's an apocalypse. To avoid such a thing, we have taken these steps today, and no one will be able to see judgment as a front and back yard as long as this structure works today, as long as neither the CHP nor the BDP nor any other power can be seized by the CHP nor the judges' will be there, so that neutrality and independence can be fully realized.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0097par0372	It's already been your backyard.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0373	When you look at today's reviews, we've all heard together how someone who was a minister of decades, ten, twenty years ago was inspired by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors to identify members of the Supreme Court. It's all important things, but in the next system, there's no mechanism to allow it, it's gone. The judgment will be independent, neutral, and everyone will get used to it, because it's no longer anyone's front yard or backyard.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0098par0374	Your backyard, your backyard!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0375	If something like that ever happened, we'd be most opposed to it. We've always been against it, and from now on, we'll continue to oppose it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0099par0376	Do you believe that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0377	Members of the Supreme Court, all of whom have studied law schools in this country...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0100par0378	Oh, come on, man!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0379	They're elected by judges and prosecutors who've been successful in prosecution exams and have been first-class. These are the sons of this country, the people who grew up here. It would be extremely wrong to describe them as militant. That's not right, because if you take an approach to people who act the way you want them to do it, there's another kind of approach to people who act the other way, there's a double standard here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0101par0380	You have to drive like you do, Mr. Secretary, don't you? You drove them away.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0381	In the past, when Mr. Aykut Genghis Engin changed the authority of two prosecutors in Ergenekon investigations during the past HSYK, I'd say, "What if it's true?" But I did it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0102par0382	Did you do it at the lighthouse?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0383	And when Mr. Oz was relieved of his authority, I criticised him, and I criticized him again when someone tried to remove him, because I said it was wrong, and I didn't find it right, so I criticized it. Then if you criticize, you have the right to criticize now, but it would be extremely wrong to contact the government with a savings that has nothing to do with the government. My fellow lawyers know the structure of the Supreme Court elections very well, and those from the Supreme Court know it very well. For months, the tours continue to run for office president. Months, six months, seven months, lap after lap, lap after lap. Everybody knows how many empty votes there are. There was yesterday, and there was before, and it could be after that, because it's not our jurisdiction, it's not your authority, and it's not anyone else's's. They'll appreciate it, they'll appreciate it. In other words, it was stated here about the recruitment. Of course, we don't have any experience in staffing, but those with experience, probably because they know what it's like, they give a lot of criticism, but we don't. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, I have something to say. It's not just about one, it's about the judiciary. It's the same with the Ministry of National Education. Perhaps our Minister of National Education will explain.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0103par0388	Did you or did you not transfer the expert on the Prime Minister to HSYK?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0389	Seven or eight of them, the Ministry of National Education, issued a transfer order, all returned from the court.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0103par0390	I'm giving you a concrete example: Did you or did you not make a member of the HSYK who gave you the expert report on the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0391	Now, look, judge, there's a system in our nature that deals with prosecutors' exams. When? From 1983 to 2007, judges are taken in the same manner. There's nothing wrong with it, and the structure is the same. The administration court is suing the case, and the administrative court denies the case. It goes to the court, and the State has decided over and over again that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Now, the Constitution hasn't changed, the laws haven't changed, as of 2007, the ruling court's decisions have changed, the court's decisions have changed. Now, this is against the Constitution, this is against the state of law. I ask now, I have the right to criticize: Well, before 2007, wasn't the Constitution the same Constitution, and the law the same laws? Then why weren't the inconsistencies made? You're looking at other kinds of decisions, and in the end, we don't trust the government, so you're going to put up a camera.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0104par0393	Aren't they right not to trust you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0394	In which government, which court, when you take personnel, will you place cameras in all the tests about them?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0105par0396	I thought you said there was transparency.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0397	Is that a thing? This is the state of law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0106par0398	It used to be the state of law, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0399	It's a subjective approach, the law doesn't allow it, but I don't trust you. Courts can't make that decision.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0107par0400	I thought the government was supposed to be transparent.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0401	So when I criticize him, I say it's wrong. But when everyone criticizes him, they have to say it, the wrongs, the rights. We want the law to be superior. It is our common desire that the judgment act according to what the law is in its decisions, because the decisions made by the judiciary must please everyone. If he doesn't like it, there's trouble. Therefore, judgment will take care of it in its decisions. If not, the government can criticize, and the opposition can criticize, because judicial decisions are not holy decisions.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0107par0403	Who is the first Prime Minister to fail to pass judgment, to be sentenced to compensation?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0404	But there have been evaluations of the judges who have resigned, and I would like to express this in particular: many officers may resign, from the judge, from the teaching, from the doctor's office. If you're looking for meaning under all of this, then there might be different consequences.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0108par0405	To see the pressure behind it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0406	Some may leave because of the spouse, others because of another job, others because of health. There are also certain people who resign every year -- sometimes less, sometimes more -- from the profession of the judge and the prosecutor.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0108par0407	You've put them in respiratory condition, Mr. Secretary, and they're resigning for him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0408	But none of them have ever broken up with politics. For example, I'm Mr. Vural War, who wrote the book "Militan Democracy," for reasons of resignation... I know, but I haven't heard Mr. Vural War. At the time, he resigned because of pressure against the HSYK during his HSYK membership, but he did not go out and make a statement about it. But a student judge or any prosecutor resigns, opens a law office, works for years in the Supreme Court -- lawyers know, it's a great reputation, it's a good structure for law enforcement -- he resigns or uses it with other things.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0108par0409	He's being forced to resign, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0410	There are dozens of judges and prosecutors who have resigned and left. What kind of explanation is there?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0108par0411	There's a lot of them lately.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0412	If you look at that explanation, there are twenty coming from behind. We didn't hear 20 of them resign.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0108par0413	Do you deny driving prosecutors, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0414	I mean, I think it would be more accurate if the people who did politics for him left it to the politicians.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0108par0415	Where did you send Omar Faruk Eminağoglu, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0416	On the other hand, I'd like to share a few things with you about the MIT Undersecretary: One is the merger of electronic intelligence, which operates in the same way as the General Staff Electronic Systems structure and MIT, which is the same structure. What's wrong with that? The two institutions agree, they come together, they build a protocol to collect intelligence in Turkey's favor more regularly, to use it for the good of our country, for the good of our nation, they sign under each other, and then they combine it. That's what people do, people who are experts, people who know best about it. After that, we're looking for other meanings. The fact that intelligence is effective is a very important issue for our country's safety, for its peace of mind both inside and outside, and is a step born of need. It's not a wrong step, it's a right step, accepted by both sides. On the other hand, for example, the National Intelligence Agency received two of them. I'd be glad if they gave me the names of my dear friend's trustees, because my information says there's no appointing a co-ed. If they give us the names of our trustees, I'll ask the authorities. There is no such appointment as a trustee. Besides, what's wrong with the state taking advantage of its own people, its own citizens, if it's needed, it's in service, it's in qualities, it's in those qualities? It can be used if needed, but such a thing is certainly out of the question, an unrealistic statement. The MIT has never failed to communicate any intel it has received to the authorities it should have received.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0109par0420	Did Oslo tell you about his meetings, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0421	Analysis has been done, evaluations have been made, and they've been transferred to places that need to be delivered in this framework. Evaluations, commendations... of course, the authorities will assess them, take steps. It's an institution that does important tasks in the positions of Turkey's security. What needs to be done for the safety of this country is what is within the legal framework, they make great sacrifices, and they will continue to do so. We thank them for their service to our nation. Mr. Court has said something about our president. Of course, he can't answer because he's a bureaucrat.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0110par0423	We can make decisions, we can talk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0424	There are all the bureaucrats here. Mr. Vural told me, there is no Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, but we have friends representing him, friends representing other institutions. And the courts, by law, represent the secretary general here. That's why there's no problem here. Now Mr. Recai Akyel is not an officer today. When I look at it, Ankara graduated from Political Information in 1987, has a public position at 88, has a public office in Solhan, Gölyaka, Imamoglu, Kızıltepe, Elbistan and Çanolik as governors, has a doctorate in Tokat, has a business doctorate, has a foreign language, and has a twenty-one-year public duty in 2009. It is not shameful for a man to work in the private sector by his forehead's sweat; it is shameful for him to eat, to do wrong, to commit corruption; it is wrong for him. So he worked hard and earned his family's sustenance. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There's another thing...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0111par0429	Mr. Bozdağ, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0430	Maybe I'll answer the rest of the questions in here. I'll also give you my answers on other matters, but I think I've got six minutes, don't you, Mayor?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0112par0431	No, no, time's up.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0111par0432	No, fifty minutes. Your time is up.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0092par0433	In the first round? All right, then. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, I wish the 2012 budget to be a blessing, thanking all the contributing, working lawmakers, and greeting all of you with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0111par0436	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0113par0437	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0111par0438	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0113par0439	He gave a false assessment of the nationalist Movement Party's stance on the presidential election. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to correct that misjudgement.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0111par0440	I believe he made a compromise, Mr. Vural, which is why he said it was because of your support.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0113par0441	He couldn't, sir. Of course, he couldn't make that proposal because he spoke from the bench. So...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0111par0442	Yes, sir. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0113par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the National Movement Party's pre-election position was clear and clear, and the nation has always argued that its will should work. In fact, before the presidential election, he suggested that the election be held with a renewed parliamentary will in March, but unfortunately, those who went to the election with his rope, defending the 27 April declaration as a blessing, removed the plug on democracy over the President's crisis, and the Parliament worked. So we brought out our own candidate, and voted for Mr. Çakmakoğlu in the morning. Therefore, this attitude of the National Party of Action is a requirement of its faith in democracy. Of course, Mr. Secretary spoke a little too unbridled, always scribbled the past in order to clear his own term, the presidential elections were held in spite of the nation. Is Ozal here in spite of the nation? Is he here in spite of the Iron Nation? So Ahmet Necdet Sezer came in spite of the nation? Look, there are five signatures of leaders. First up, Bulent Arinc, in spite of everyone? Despite the nation's signature of your national Secretary of Defense, Vecdi Gonul? This is the signature of Mr. Vice President Mehmet Satık Bey, who runs the House. Mr. President, you signed this in spite of everyone?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0114par0450	But this, Mr. Bekir, is the cover, so it's the cover! I guess you're out of answers to that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0113par0451	So if you like your God... what if you walk into a china shop like a truck without brakes, brother? So give me the right information. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0114par0454	But on the back of this, they'll probably write, "Get a lid on it!"
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0115par0455	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0116par0456	Mr. President, I want to correct a false information.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0115par0457	Your position, please. Just a minute, from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0117par0460	Dear President, thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister says that we didn't favour anyone. Well, the person who filed an expert report on behalf of the Prime Minister is now a member of the HSYK. Do they know about this? Second: Where is the Ankara Chief Prosecutor, who has not appealed to a decision against the Prime Minister over and over again? I'd appreciate it if they'd brief me on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0118par0464	He used wrongly, asking questions, asking according to 60. [[Continue]] "I") THE GENIOR PROFECTION OF THE MILK'S SECURITY
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0119par0501	Members of parliament, the last word is the MP's bylaws, who are demanding a direct word against Necati Özensoy, Bursa MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0120par0505	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the first round of the 2012 central management budget. I salute you all. I won't say anything at the point where Mr. President and the Prime Minister aren't going abroad. However, Mr. Bozdağ, going abroad is neither a state nor a great leader. The best example of this is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic. (Applause from MHP and CHP) During the fifteen-year presidential term, no king, no president, and the heads of kings and heads of state, came to the foot of Ataturk, but Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was the greatest leader of the 20th century. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Congressmans, there's always been talk of transparency when talking about the budget. Of course, what does it mean that the budget is transparent, and that's one thing to put it out there. It's the control that's supposed to be transparent. Look, we're also talking about the Supreme Council of the Prime Ministership, which has joined the Court and the Court of Appeals on behalf of Parliament. I've been a member of the CSI Commission for the past four years and this period again. As a result of these audits, I'd like to share with you from here the contradictions of what we face when reports are being discussed in the House. Now, when these reports come to the CSI Commission, look, particularly the largest KCE institutions, the Agriculture Bank, the People's Bank and the Bank of Provinces, which lends loans to municipalities. Now, when these come, we ask questions. Here's a shady loan, who did you give it to? I can't give information according to the Banks Act, it's forbidden. Well, you're giving it to the members of the High Control Board, to the members who serve on our behalf, and you're not giving us that information. Now, I would also like to address the Speaker of Parliament here: Is the confidentiality of this information right or wrong for lawmakers serving on an audit committee? There's got to be a solution. The County Bank is giving loans to municipalities. We're asking what's wrong with these loans, what's too much, what's missing. Which city did you give it to, the ally, the opponent, this one or this one? I can't give information, it's forbidden according to the Bank's Law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0121par0513	Bank of Provinces...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0120par0514	Sir, I've been overseeing the County Bank there for four years. It's me...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0121par0515	I was mayor of the city for twelve years. I saw what happened back then.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0120par0516	I don't know what we're dealing with at the CSI Commission... I'm talking about auditing, auditing. Go look at the transcripts. Mr. Canikli knows very well as head of the CIT Commission.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0121par0518	I saw what the Bank of Province was at that time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0120par0519	Look, these are the answers the authorities at the County Bank gave us. Here's the transparency of control. Again, BOTAS, the largest of these institutions, is an institution that meets all of Turkey's natural gas needs and has a lot of corruption, and many of its executives are in prison. TPAO is also one of the largest institutions. We're doing the audits off to the press, but when we ask some of the questions there, you know, how much do you charge for natural gas? Or how much did you pay for it in terms of buying or paying for it? The answer is given to us: I'm not allowed to give it to you according to the Oil Act. Now, after the latest law on the Law of the Court, the YDK joined the Court, and the word "performance" there was emptied, and we are no longer able to control it because they have narrowed it down in some way. Now, is it important that the budget is transparent, or is it important that the budget resources are transparent to whom, where, how they're being spent? Dear lawmakers, you can see exactly what I've stated to the CIT Commission reports. You can't just stand there and argue without knowing it, without saying it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0122par0525	Congressmans, the first round of speeches is complete. Let's move on to the question-answer part. Ten minutes... Our friends are in the system to ask questions. In order, I read their names: Mr. Erdogan, Mughal MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0123par0530	Mr. President, thank you. How many Prime Ministerial advisors were there before 2003, and how much is that number today? That's what we want to know. The Court has been appointed as the sole authority on the financial control of all public institutions through the Public Financial Control Act 5018. How many municipalities did the Court supervise in 2010-2011? How many of the controlled municipalities are the ruling municipalities, and how many are the opposition municipalities? Is there a municipality under investigation as a result of the inspection? If so, what's the distribution of these according to parties? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0124par0534	The second word is Mr. Vural, our İzmir MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0125par0536	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ has just said that the president will be elected by the people. So we passed the law here, in the House, and we said the Constitution for five years. Now, is the presidential election in 2012 or 2014? Second: On what dates did you send Hakan Fidan....to İmralı, about the meetings between the Prime Minister's special representative and the PKK in Oslo? Do you have a written order for the Imralı to be dealt with? Has the request for a visit and a meeting come from the Imralı? What messages did Hakan Fidan bring you from Imran? What are the issues that have been agreed upon by the Imralı criminal and terrorist organization by 90 to 95%? What are the studies conducted with the terrorist organization under this agreement? Where and at what level are the limits of your campaign to prepare the public? What activities have been carried out in Parliament, in the government, in the adoption of 95% of the issues you have agreed on to society, the state?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0126par0539	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Korkmaz, Isparta MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0127par0541	Mr. President said there would be better things to be done by reproaching the opening project and reproaching the PKK for its lack of adequate support. Let's see what happened in the process. The debates, such as democratic autonomy, federation, the second flag, the unchangeable provisions of the Constitution, have been launched, and the number of terrorist martyrs has begun to be expressed by 100. The government is sitting at the negotiating table with the terrorist organization. In many of our provinces, there are practice attempts. The PKK's demands have become political, massized, and deep. My question is, what are the good things that we can't see, what are the good things that Mr. President sees? Even so, what can be more than happy and happy developments for Mr. President? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0128par0544	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Akçay, Congressman of Manisa.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0129par0546	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 15th, Mr. President visited our military forces in Van and Hakkari, along with the Chief of Staff. This visit took place unannounced by media and public opinion. Why was the visit of the head and commander-in-chief of the Republic of Turkey kept secret? Again, Mr. President, why did he visit the Prime Minister of England on his visit to his office? Again, Mr. President still does not live in the Presidential Mansion. However, the Çankaya Mansion has been under way for four years. Mr. President, is he planning to live in the Presidential House? The foreign minister has also received a monthly rental of 39,000 lira dwellings. Isn't that a waste? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0130par0551	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0131par0553	Mr. President, you missed me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0130par0554	Excuse me, you're right. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0131par0556	Mr. President, when will the presidential election be clear? Maybe I'll run for President. I need this time to prepare myself, and I need to know that time, otherwise you don't fit in with the competition. Two: President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Vice President, we just passed a law here last week, the Agency Act. Before you're legalized, you've got 10 people on the staff, 10 people. Who are they? Why did you take it? Did you or did you not act unethically here? Three: You promised here that a member of the Assembly would not bleed. You said that. The council staff is down. They're your children. Please gather all men together, brother, and say, with dignity, honor, the honest and resourceful shall not be deceived. Everyone's depressed, Parliament, members of Parliament are extremely upset, Mr. President. Are you going to do that? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0132par0560	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0133par0562	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, terrorist leader Abdullah Ocalan and his lawyers' Imralı talks are on the record. While making these talks, giving instructions, making threats, and martyring 132 security guards, the Turkish nation wonders what the government, MİSCE, or other officials are doing. Now, I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister if the meetings with Ocalan and his lawyers were heard. Is it registered? If this hasn't been done, then the officers aren't doing their duty. If conversations and interviews are being recorded and they're not being carried out under surveillance, murder and murder...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0134par0566	Thank you. Mr. Alim Ikm, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0135par0568	Thank you, Mr. President. My first questions to the Deputy Prime Minister: At the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, you will be asked to account for the attackers you have expressed at every opportunity. What was the promise? How many strikers did you account for from that day to today? Two, for what purpose are four 4x4 jeeps in the Prime Minister's budget (T)? Is it lawful for a citizen to have jeeps that are forbidden to the Prime Minister? Chapter two, Mr. Speaker to our Deputy Speaker: After last week's Administration Act, it is true that staff members in parliament were victimised, different fees paid to different employees who did the same work were paid, and unfortunately the peace of working with this law was broken. What do you intend to do about it as Congress? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0136par0575	Thank you. Mr. Tallırmak, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0137par0577	Thank you, Mr. President. The Law on Violence in Sports 2622 has been vetoed by our President and one of the reasons is the influence of the ongoing cases. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. President if the law has been vetoed for this reason: there were things that would affect the cases that have been going on before and very important to the public conscience. We reduced the sentences in abuse of the mission, where the AKP's majority -- which was an arrangement with the Parliament's agreement in 6222, was an arrangement with the AKP's majority. How many cases have been affected by that arrangement? How many of the officers were investigated and tried without misconduct? How many are these? How much damage was he doing to the government? How many were affected by this arrangement today? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0138par0581	Thank you. Mr. Çınar, the Kastamon MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0139par0583	Thank you, Mr. President. From 2002 to today, how many personnel have been taken from Turkey's Grand National Assembly, without being subjected to any tests, through posting? On what date and on what grounds have personnel services been removed? Is it right for the House to be victimized by the removal of personnel services by the Speakership? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0140par0588	Thank you. Mr. Oğan, Iğdır MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0141par0590	Thank you, Mr. President. President Abdullah Gul had launched an opening in Armenia under the name Football diplomacy, if you remember. As the Azerbaijan flags were thrown in the trash, Sarkisyan was offered home-made specials. The last time, we received Armenia's President Serj Sarkisyan, and left Mount Ağrı to you. He pointed out Mount Ağrı to the Armenian youth. I wonder if the President still stands for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0142par0594	Finally, Mr. Varli, Adana. No, sir?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0143par0596	Instead, it's Oktay Ozturk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0142par0597	Well, now to answer questions...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0143par0598	Thirty-four seconds, sir; you may have one more question.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0142par0599	No, it's over, sir; time's up, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0144par0600	Twenty-seven more seconds.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0142par0601	Twenty-seven seconds, but ten minutes according to the Charter. So there's nothing we can do.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0145par0602	We were gonna ask in five seconds.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0142par0603	They'll answer in 10 minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0146par0605	Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, good evening to you all. Regarding Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu's question: No purchase has been made, Mr. Aslanoglu. No councilman will be victimized by the agency's offer. Regarding the question of Mr. Alim Izwar, about the multi-employment model in parliament, such as the officer, 4/C, 4/B: the multi-employment model in parliament is not only an application of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but is a requirement for the employment forms envisioned in Article 657 of State Officers' Law Article 4. In other words, employment models are being implemented in all public institutions. The Parliament finds more staff in the 4/C/C/Service, and the National Palaces to employ other personnel in the work of experts, califa and restorations. Now, our proposal of the law preserves the full rights of the current employees. If the bill is passed, there will be normal staff work. The units identified as Norm surplus are based on no recruitment. As stated, extra norms are not the victims of personnel. Contracted personnel are also required by general tax legislation, as is the case with all public contractors. As with the other public institutions, 4/C (C) employees do not receive a higher working fee according to the legislation. However, overworkers are paid between $1,746 and $2.100, considering the quality of the work, the difficulty. This is carried out by the decision of the Presidential Court. Regarding the question of the staff employed in parliament: from 2002 to 2002, 1,502 employees were employed from this side, including staffed and contracted 4/C. On the other hand, since 2002, 1,086 people have retired or have left the parliament for various reasons. As a result, there has been a 416-strong increase in personnel over the past decade, but this increase has been due to increase in 4/C (c) personnel, and there have been 90 reductions in staff members. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0147par0614	Thank you. Mr. Bozdağ...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0148par0616	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to try to answer the questions our fellow lawmakers ask in a row. Mr. Erdoğan had a question; from 2003 to today, how many advisors are there in the Prime Minister's office? He asked me for numbers, but I don't have any clear numbers right now. For him, there's no way to say it all at once. I'll answer in writing, if they think it's appropriate, because I don't have the number right now. The Court asked a detailed question in 2010-2011 how many municipalities were inspected and related to it. Of course, there's no way I can give you all the numbers in a healthy way right now. If you agree, we'll answer it in writing, whether the information is right or the question has been answered. Mr. Vural and Mr. Aslanoglu asked a question about his term of office. Of course, after the amendment to the relevant Article of the Constitution, the President's mandate was set to be five years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0620	In 2012, I mean...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0148par0621	But right now, our current President has been elected according to the old law. Of course, in a situation like this, we'll eliminate debates about the term of duty...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0622	There's no argument.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0148par0623	... since there is no transit order, there is debate about the fact that part of the Constitutional lawyers is five years, and the other part is seven years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0624	Five years, five years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0148par0625	Both sides share their rights in their arguments, and that's relevant...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0626	You're applying to the Supreme Court for five years?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0150par0627	How many years were the MPs elected, lawmakers?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0628	Don't stop the public from electing the President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0629	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my answer. You asked a question, I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0630	Let the people choose, why do you prevent it? Don't take away the authority of the people.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0152par0631	You're a lawyer, what's your personal opinion?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0632	There has never been any discussion on this matter in the Council of Ministers, there is no government opinion on this issue, but I have my own personal opinion, if you'll allow it, not the government's opinion, but I've already given my personal opinion to the public...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0633	We're telling the government, sir, you're not personal Bekir Bozdağ.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0634	Look, then it's not a matter of opinion in the government, it's a matter of the House's discretion. If the House decides to pass a law, it will act according to it, and if it doesn't, it will be...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0635	Look, five years. It did, it did, it did, it did, it did, it did, it did, it did, it did, it did, it
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0636	No, sir, he didn't, only the President was elected according to the old law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0637	You said four years, we did it in four years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0638	In such a case, it can be determined that the Parliament has the authority to enact law on this matter.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0639	We did it in four years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0640	Not that the parliamentary elections are down to four years and four years, but the parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary elections...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0641	Four years, four years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0642	Excuse me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0643	Don't take away people's right to choose.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0644	...the authority to advance the parliamentary elections is a Parliamentary authority. Therefore, Parliament can move the elections forward by making a decision.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0645	Mr. Abdullah Gul wants to be elected for another five years, so why are you taking away his rights?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0153par0646	You're not giving me the right information.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0647	We've decided that we're going to reduce it to four years, and we're going to be able to move it forward in this frame, and we're going to move it forward.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0648	Don't take away Mr. Abdullah Gul's right to be elected for the second time. Is that right? Five years, five years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0151par0649	But there's no such authority in this matter, it's entirely up to Parliament to decide. I'll give you my opinion.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0650	Your will is five years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0154par0651	When, Mr. Secretary, when?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0149par0652	Stay behind him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0155par0653	Have a seat, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0154par0654	Mr. Secretary, when will you bring it then?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0655	In my opinion, the President's mandate has been my personal opinion for seven years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0154par0656	Mr. Secretary, who will bring this to Parliament?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0157par0657	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0658	Because if you accept for five years, you'll be able to get the president out of office, which means parliament will come and the majority will be in your hands.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0158par0659	Abdullah Gul may want to do another five years, you said he was very successful.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0660	By reducing the term of duty, they can always move the President's mandate forward, so they can take the President out of office.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0158par0661	You want to block his candidacy.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0662	That's my personal opinion; you accept it, you don't.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0159par0663	Well, he's not running again according to the old law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0664	There have been questions about the meeting of the Undersecretary of MIT regarding the Imran. Of course, the National Intelligence Service does the duties of Law 2937 regarding the security of this country, concerning its peace. He can always make the necessary talks for the security of the country, if necessary, within the framework of these tasks. This is part of the mission of the National Intelligence Agency.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0665	Special representative of the Prime Minister! I sent it. It says.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0666	You will fight terrorism within the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0667	His political representative...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0668	Or you'll know everything about it in the field, and you'll know what's going on. On the other hand, why is the intelligence agency doing this here, and why is it doing this here?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0669	I sent my chest to him. He says. On what date?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0670	Yeah, it's the agency's job.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0671	On what date?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0672	They will do and continue to do what is necessary for the safety of the country within the limits set by the law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0673	How many times, when did the Prime Minister appoint a political post?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0674	There is absolutely no protocol. Our Prime Minister has also denied it, and the government has repeatedly denied it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0675	Wasn't he your special representative who said 95 percent agreed?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0676	But they keep bringing it up. It's Mr. Korkmaz's question about Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0678	Answer these. Why aren't you answering?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0679	So it was more of a comment than a question.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0160par0680	You have no knowledge or no heart.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0681	About that...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0161par0682	What are the good things that we can't see?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0683	There's no way I can answer that question, so I didn't take it as a question. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0161par0684	No, it's obvious. What are the good things that we don't see?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0685	Well, you're commenting, so I have to say something based on knowledge. So I'm not going to answer your comment with a comment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0161par0686	Answer in writing, then.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0687	Mr. Akçay was asked about the visit of Mr. President. When our President visited the provinces, he visited governorship, municipalities, universities and other institutions in those provinces and visited the provinces of Mr. President Van and Hakkari. It wasn't a secret visit, it was public knowledge. In addition, his visit to the military unit was not a county visit, but a visit to attend a starboard handover ceremony there, which he carried out. It's about him, I wanted to express him. And, of course, something about the presidential residence, our friends. Our President is not using that dwelling today, and there is no expense to that dwelling so far. Besides, if our President has to spend on the housing he's staying in, there's no harm in it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0162par0689	Why doesn't he sit down?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0690	Because one of the most important parts of Turkey is its representation. Foreign guests can also host guests, and for that, they need to be appropriate to Turkey and it needs to be done.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0162par0691	Isn't the President's residence appropriate?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0163par0692	Have we made it state-worthy for nine years yet?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0693	It's one thing to be critical, one question to be made. Mr. Light said something about being questioned about the coups. Of course, the interim clause adopted during the September 12th public vote was lifted along with 15 ▪ and the obstacles to the trial and investigation have been lifted, and investigations are under way. I don't know where the investigations are, but these investigations are ongoing, and I want you to know that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0164par0695	You know you can't judge, you've deceived people.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0156par0696	There's a lot of other questions, I'm done with them, I'm done with them, I'm done with them...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0165par0697	What about the 4x4 jeeps, the 4x4? It is unlawful for a man to live, it is lawful for him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0166par0699	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0167par0700	Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0166par0701	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0167par0702	We ask on behalf of our people, and he must answer these questions correctly. Look, in the talks with Oslo, Hakan Fidan says that when the need to move political content to a different dimension, our Prime Minister assigned me to do so.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0168par0703	Mr. President, he asked the question, according to what Article of the Civil Code is he speaking now? Is there such a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0167par0704	What does the Deputy Undersecretary of the Prime Minister have to do with the MIT? I'm just saying, when did he post it? What was his purpose, what was his goal?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0168par0705	Mr. President, is there such a method?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0167par0706	It's a political assignment, and I want him to answer that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0169par0707	Your words have passed, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the question-answer process has been completed. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the first round, respectively. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0170par0711	You haven't answered any questions. You'll answer to the people, don't spoil it!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0171par0713	We've given and given, so go about your business.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0169par0714	Okay, okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0170par0715	You'll give me the right information. You didn't answer the Armenian, you didn't answer any of them. You're only with kings and queens, you have no business with the nation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit02spe0169par0716	I submit to your votes that the presidential budget for central management in 2012 will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 138,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 138,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I submit to your votes that the president's central management account of 2010 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Central Management Final Account for 2010 Presidentship (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 112,099.00 - Budget Expenses 108,267,718.92 - Canceled allowance: 3.831.281.08 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidential presidency was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the central management budget in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 02-TURKEY BIG MILITARY PRESIDENT 1. ▪ Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 650,673,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 37,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 88,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 454,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 651.252,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Grand National Assembly was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the final account of central management in 2010: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 470,026,154.00 - Budget Expenses 418,113,361.52 - Canceled allowance: 37,364.251.64 - Refundance for the following year: 15,815,501.32 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Grand National Assembly was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Court's presidency shall be taken into the central management budget of 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1. National Management Budget, 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 18,158,700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 35,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 122.068.430 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 1,900,000 TOPLAM 142.162.130 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Court was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. National Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 125,900,053.97 - Budget Expenses 94,475,057.64 - Canceled allowance: 31.424.996.33 - Refundance for the following year: 1,819,428.37 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The section of the central management account of 2010 has been adopted. President of the Constitutional Court, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2012 be taken into its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 03 - ANAYASA PRISON 1. ▪ Constitutional Court Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6,684,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 18.034,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 24,718,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Constitutional Court was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. President of the Constitutional Court for 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Constitutional Court Presidency Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 16,311,503.00 - Budget Expenses: 10.316.803.22 - Canceled allowance: 5,994.699.78 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The President of the Constitutional Court was adopted in 2010 as part of the final account of the central administration. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court shall take part in the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 21.897,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 81,233,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 103.130,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Central Management Final Account for 2010 Supreme Court (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 57,744,138.00 - Budget Expenses 57,488,057.97 - Payments Expenses: 47.693.06 - Canceled allowance: 303,773.09 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Prosecutor's Office Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.449.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 61,213.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 80,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 70.742,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The court adopted parts of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Central Management Final Account for the Year of 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 46,882,686.00 - Budget Expenses 46,476,782.05 - Canceled allowance: 405,903.95 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2010, the court approved parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the prime minister's central management budget of 2012 will be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Prime Ministerial Budget for Central Management in 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 761,701.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 1,609,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.417,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 64,631,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 25,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 902,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.497,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 861.757,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Prime Ministership was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the prime minister's central administration account in 2010 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Central Management Final Account for 2010 Prime Ministership (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 4.908.578.220.82 - Budget Expenses: 4,806,564,982.55 - Canceled allowance : 102,013,238.27 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The prime minister's central administration account of 2010 was adopted. I submit to your votes that the Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2010: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1. ▪ Prime Ministerial High Control Board Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 10,219,178.00 - Budget Expenses: 10.219.159.80 - Canceled allowance: 18.20 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the National Intelligence Agency's Investigative Service will be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.75-MILLIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1. ▪ National Intelligence Agency Undersecretary Central Management Budget 2012 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 750.942,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 750.942,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Intelligence Agency's Investigation Office was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ National Intelligence Agency Undersecretary Central Management Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 518,485,499.00 - Budget Expenses 517,739,406.77 - Canceled allowance: 746,092.23 Next Year's Payment: 220,853.50 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Intelligence Agency's Investigation Office was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2010. I submit to your votes that the Secretary General of the National Security Board shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2012: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 07.76-National Security Building General Order 1. ▪ National Security Board General Secretaryship 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 14.376.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 14.376.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. The Secretary General of the National Security Board for 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ National Security Board General Secretaryship 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 12.546.001.00 - Budget Expenses 11.713.353.62 - Canceled allowance: 832,647.38 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board has been accepted as part of the central management account in 2010. Thus, after the division of all budgets involved in the first round was voted separately, the presidency of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly, the Court of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the State Court, the Prime Minister's Office, the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service and the Central Government budgets of the National Security Board in 2012 and the final account of central management accounts and central management of the Prime Ministerial High Control Board in 2010. I wish him well. Congressmans, the first round of talks is complete. We'll take a 45-minute break before the second round.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0169par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will now begin our second round of talks. The second round includes the Radio and Television Oversight Board, Press, Publishing and Information General Directorate, General Directorate of Foundations, Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Language Foundation, Turkish History Foundation budgets. [[Continue]] Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Lawmakers must write their passwords by the end of the talks and press the promise-seeking button on the screen after they have introduced their fingerprints. The demands of the MPs, whose red lights on their microphones are starting to blink, will be accepted. In the second round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: AK PARTI Group: İlhan İlikaya, Konya; Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul; Israel Kışla, Artvin; Tülay Saşoğlu, Ankara; Özlem Yeshçi, Tekirdağ; Ulır Güzel, Ankara; Selçuk Özdağ, Manisa; Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amasya; five minutes each. Nationalist Movement Party Group: Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash MP, 10 minutes; Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya MP, 10 minutes; Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP, 20 minutes. Republican People's Party Group: Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP, ten minutes; Aylin Nazlıaka, Ankara MP, ten minutes; Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP, ten minutes, Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP, ten minutes. Peace and Democracy Party Group: Fair Kurt, Hakkari MP, fifteen minutes; Erol Dora, Mardin MP, ten minutes; Property Birtane, Kars MP, fifteen minutes. On behalf of the individuals: Lehinda, Ömer Faruk Öz, Malatya MP, five minutes; against Melda Onur, İstanbul MP, five minutes. Interrogation in 20 minutes. Dear MPs, now on behalf of the AK PARTI Group Ilhan İnlikaya, MP of the Conium. Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0172par0047	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget for the 2012 Financial Budget Bill Radio and Television Supreme Council. I salute you all. On this occasion, I wish our Prime Minister a speedy recovery. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been assigned to the Radio and Television Oversight in our country, as in all democratic countries. You know, in the 1990s, when private radio and televisions began to spread, there were no Radio and Television Oversights, but it was established by Act 3984, which came out in 1994. Since then, there have been very rapid developments, a lot of television broadcasts have come to life, and by the way, technology, you know, has evolved very quickly in Turkey and in the world. By the time of our day, transitions from territorial publishing to digital publishing began in the world. It has been completed in many places, and we have taken precautions along with this law, and I hope it will pass in 2015. Other than that, new forms of satellite broadcasting, cable publishing, Internet IP TV broadcasting began to emerge, and finally, web TV, such as the broadcasts. So, both from the point of view and content, in this period of time, our publishing has really improved, but our legislation for developing technology, developing publishing, has not been able to keep up. So on February 15, 2011, you know, the new Radio and Television Oversight Act came out for him. The Supreme Board of Radio and Television Act No. 6112 was published in the Official Gazette on March 3rd. This law has brought a lot of new things to our publishing lives. Because a number of voluntary activities, based on the fact that it was not in the law before, have been fulfilled by this law. What were those? Like smart signs, it was a number of voluntary activities, such as the Alo RTÜK line. There was no frequency tender, and the frequency costs couldn't be taken. You know, the frequency is a public property. Over the years, on temporary leave, our publishers continued their broadcasts. For him, they felt like squatters. With the new law, it's been corrected. Other than 1994, the Radio Television Oversight has met its costs, although in the law, in the current law and in the previous law, the Turkish National Assembly budget is reinforced, as I said, but it has not been reinforced in any way from 94 to today, because its own income is in its own hands. Let's get this straight from here. If we look at what their income is, the basic income of the Radio Television Oversight is: First, broadcast license fees. That's an important sum, an important part of the income. Now, with the new law, the Act 6112 has also begun to charge frequency annual use fees, which we've received from RTÜK (the RTÜK) as of this current situation around 28 million. This also comes as a significant sum, because there was a gap in the law earlier, which was not allowed to be paid, which was included between the new law and the revenues of RTÜK. Another source of income is a revenue from radio, television, broadcasters, which is around 3% income. So these revenues come as the revenues of the Radio Television Oversight Council, and these are significant sums. There are significant numbers in the process since 2009, such as 98 million. Again, since 2009, the total amount has been 131,448 TL. Of course, RTÜK doesn't use it himself, it transfers it to the IRS. 98 million of these are transferred directly to the treasury, 32 million directly to Social Aid and Solidarity, so RTÜK is not getting money from Parliament and the treasure, but is also being transferred as an institution. ▪ Why couldn't you plan the frequency beforehand? Before, there were gaps in the law, two or three organizations gathered together and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he had to plan the frequency and make the tender.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0173par0058	Mr. Indiankaya, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0172par0059	Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0173par0061	Our second speaker is Istanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0174par0065	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Prime Ministerial Press-Journal and Information General Directorate in the 2012 budget talks. I salute the House. Honorable MPs were founded in 1920, right after the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Matbuat and Intelligence Administration Publicity, and under the law regulation of 1984, it became the Editor-in-Chief of Press Information. The latest effort to expand the organization structure has also been made this year to specialise in the institution with a new staff, which has expanded the structure of the organization with the Law Act No. 651 in 2011. The General Manager's office has a modern news and press centre and an art gallery, and serves with about 400 staff, along with seven district managers and 22 press advisers. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are obliged to provide the public with the relevant authorities, the correct, revealing, enlightening flow of information, following the broadcasts of local and foreign media outlets with the State Information System. About 4,000 news reports are available to the General Manager daily, with more than 40 foreign televisions from the world's leading broadcasters, 18 languages, over 300 foreign news sites, 3 local and foreign news agencies, in exactly 92 countries, 48 languages, over 1,700 languages, and 1.200 local newspapers from 81 counties. It also helps foreign media work and contributes to the introduction of our country's municipalities by the directorate. It is also part of the services provided to organise media arrangements at summits such as the OSCE, NATO, HABITAT, ISEDAK, and other media members who come with foreign state and government heads. The secretary of the Public Diplomacy Coordinatorship established by the Prime Minister for co-ordination of public institutions and NGOs and NGOs is also the General Manager. When we look at international programmes again, it brings media outlets from different continents together in Turkey. This is very important because the first Turkish-speaking States Media Forum was held in 2010, and in May 2011, the Balkan Countries Media Forum was also reflected in the media recently, as you know, with 250 media representatives from 22 Arab countries in Istanbul, the Turkish Arab Media Forum was held. Also, in February 2011, Germany-Köln, Belgium-Brüksel, also conducted studies with media out of Turkey, but broadcasting in Turkish. So far, what I'm saying is that the General Directorate's work on education and promotion, but on one hand, it's capable of publishing. The most serious publication in this sense is the book, which bears the title of "Turkey," which publishes not only in Turkish, English, French, German, Japanese, and Chinese in 11 different languages, but also in this sense, in this sense, promoting our country internationally, but also on the agenda; the books of media Ethics, Press Publishing and Education in Turkey, were published again in Turkish History of Democracy. By the way, there's been membership in the Venice Club since 2004. A club with 180 media out of 28 countries also held the 2010 meeting in Istanbul. Among the General Directorate's social responsibility projects, the campaign to donate seedlings to every member of the press was carried out by planting 20,000 saplings in 18 districts. There's a study of press cards, and I'll transfer it quickly, because it's the General Manager's office that does the secretary of press cards again. The press card has increased its function, provided a gray passport, or service passport. As of today, the number of press cards has reached 13.144 journalists. The General Manager's office has also done studies to strengthen the local press. It's very important to me, and I'm highlighting this because the local press is the essential part of modern democracy, and the work done in that sense is very important. In this sense, 21 media education seminars, 17 boroughs briefings, many studies such as the Anatolian press incentive competitions, as well as vocational training, again news, photos, publishing training...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0175par0080	Thank you, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0174par0081	I wish you well in the budget, with respect.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0175par0083	Our next speaker is Artvin MP, Mr. Bazafil Barracks. Here you go, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0176par0086	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Foundation General Directorate, one of our country's most influential institutions. I salute your committee. As you know, the foundation is an institutionalized form of human cooperation and solidarity. In other words, it is the duty of mankind that they should devote their property to the good pleasure of Allah, and not expect any reward. Hence, the foundation of the foundation is tolerance, compassion; compassion, generosity, and a sense of worship. Our profession, the representative of the foundation civilization, has set an example for all countries of the world. Through the foundations, it has provided important services from infrastructure to urbanism, from environment to health, from education to culture, from economy to trade in many areas during the pre-Republic period. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the General Directorate of the Foundations, established centuries ago, but today without a manager, are both manager and representative of the 41,800 foundation, and, again, new foundations established around 4,500 are being treated for the work, function, inspection and distribution of the foundation. Today, the General Directorate of Foundations has become a huge institution that has thousands of foundations and operates in every area. The well-being of the foundations is being restored and served in the service of our nation, as well as by the General Directorate of Foundations, as well as by conditional allocations to public institutions and civil society organisations. Before 2001, three or five works a year could not be restored, but from 2003 to today, 3,600 artifacts have been repaired, restored, and served in public service over nine years. Again, the General Directorate of Foundations has gone into serious work to obtain more income than real estate that has the right to flow. 392 non-movables have been assessed by the management or by the do-and-run method, and nearly 3,000 different species and sized real estates have been added to the General Directorate of Foundations. With the ongoing work, the goal is not to leave a single artifact untouched, unrepaired and unreserved in the service of our nation. As a result of investment efforts conducted in 2003-2011, the Foundation General Directorate of the Foundation has led to an investment of about $2 billion and 500 million, providing the opportunity to employ 70,000 people. With effective management, a Foundation General Directorate with a $35m budget in 2003 became an institution that reached 400m euro budget in 2011 as a result of efficient assessment of emerging real estate. They've had the opportunity to follow up on the development changes and other treatments related to the management system and the tenants and the real estate, which he created by the Geographic Information System and the Foundation Movers. Again, we care about the Foundation Archive Management System, which was completed in 2011, with 10 million documents, such as the Foundation's foundation, virtue, wisdom, decree, which shed light on our past. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers have been earmarked for food support for 20,000 poor families every month in eighty-one counties in 2011, in order to meet the conditions for charity, as well as a monthly salary for 5,000 of the needy, disabled and orphans, and a scholarship for 15,000 students. It's very important to keep the foundation conscious alive as well as to keep the foundation alive. In this sense, many activities are being held, including Foundations Week, and projects are being carried out with new foundations. We have to increase the number of people in our country and increase the number of foundations if we want to increase the quality of beauty. Mr. President, at the end of my words, the honorable members who have divided 50 percent of their income into investment without any contribution from the treasure... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and not a burden on the state, but on the well-being of the Foundation General Directorate's 2012 budget, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0177par0099	Thank you, Mr. Barracks. Our next speaker is Mr. Tülay Selamoglu, Ankara MP. Mr. Selamoglu, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0178par0103	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the President of Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Foundation as part of the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute our High Council. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History, are founded under Article 134, Article 2876 of our Constitution, to study, promote, spread, and publish the Ataturkian thinking, the Ataturk principle and its teachings, Turkish culture, Turkish history, Turkish language. Ataturk Research Centre, Turkish Language Foundation, Turkish Historical Institution and Ataturk Cultural Centre are the institutions incumbent. 2011 was the year for the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History, to build a solid infrastructure for reconstruction and scientific research in all respects. During the new construction and arrangements, the Institution continued its traditional work. In 2011, the project proposal, scientific research and the Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Foundation, was implemented to support the production of original information so that projects could be carried out effectively and efficiently. A scholarship programme for the institution's undergraduates, master's and PhDs has been started by updating the Ataturk Institute's Homeland and Outer scholarship directive. In 2011, 198 students were granted scholarships, including 112 licenses, 61 Masters, 23 Ph.D.s and 2 post-doctoral researchers. The General Network Scholarship Tracking and Management System has been prepared. The project continues to prepare related databases and to establish information plants. There will be 24 hours of open information bank, which will ensure that scientific research is conducted online. Social network pages are created to provide interactive communication. Writing works in the Turkish Language Institute library have been presented in virtually all over the world in the service of researchers. The Ataturk Institute for Information Infrastructure and Integrated Information System will be completed by the end of the year. The Project to Translate Basic Thoughts and Arts of Different Cultures into Turkish began on 850 works. The creation of Turkey's Sign Language Education System (Languine Information and Dictionary Prep Project) 14th Although we are the sign language nation of the century, Turkish sign language will become official with this government. The Ethology Dictionary Project for the Original Knowledge of Turkish Turkish Turkish language will be a literary feature of our language history. Because the Turkish Language Magazine of the Turkish Language Foundation, which was held earlier, in an editorial in March 1965, shows at that time how far from mathematics and scientific work on Turkish language is. The sentence is that you don't necessarily have to be an artist or a scientist to create a word, but the person you least expect can create a very popular word. It is now a crucial step for Turkish language, Turkish history, and Turkish culture to continue this way, under the Turkish Language Foundation, with mathematical properties and studies as science. Also, the Turkish Teaching Software Project for Strangers in the Way of Remote Teaching will allow our language to become widely known. In 2011, a new production of tracking design was completed for 2012-2016. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the following is the traditional work of 2011: 43 works published and the printing of 83 works continue. The same 18 works that have already been published and have ended the existence of 18 have been published, and the same 32 works continue to be printed. The daily Ataturk Research Centre, Turkish Language Magazine, Turkish Language Studies Magazine, Turkish World Language and Literature Magazine, Belleten, Documents, Erdem and Arış were released in 2011. The Turkish Language Foundation's website, the current Turkish Dictionary, the Voiced English Dictionary, the Dictionary of Proverbs and Words, is widely visited by the Great Turkish Dictionary. It is also available on the Page of Common Wrongs, the Often Mixed Words Guide. Beautiful Turkish Riddles, prepared by the Turkish Language Foundation, are sent to regional and local media for free. I wish the 2012 budget of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute to be a blessing, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0179par0120	Thank you, Mr. Selamoglu. Our next speaker is Tekirdağ MP Özlem Yemisçi. Here you go, Mr. Yeshchi.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0180par0124	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY group on the budget of the Ataturk Research Centre under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. I hereby salute your high council. The Ataturk Research Centre is one of the four institutions established by Article 2876 in 1983 under the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. The Ataturk Research Centre, which has made significant contributions to the life of science and culture in its mandates since its establishment, aims to support scientific activities on the establishment and development of the Republic of Turkey with its revolutions. Between 2001-2011, the Ataturk Research Centre focused on 138 books, 39 magazines, 4 international congresses, 18 symposiums and published works of literature, folk culture and science. Among the activities scheduled for 2012, the work of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will be completed and published in 2012, when the 16 works selected by the centre will be translated into different languages and studied by the centre. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we must not mold ideas, we must understand the essence. Even if ideas, thoughts are separated, we must not lose the intimacy on our ground. How many scholars have raised these lands and will continue to grow them. We must embrace all the values that make us who we are, understand them for the better and for the worse. The Great Leader Ataturk is not only a son of this land, but a value to the whole world, a gain for mankind. It is more important to understand his ideas, to absorb his thoughts, and to pass them on to future generations than to forge his signature. It's not necessarily to see my face; it's enough if you understand my ideas, my thoughts, my feelings, and my feelings. "It's enough," said Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Honourable lawmakers, this statement, in fact, applies to all the children raised by this nation. We must know our essence, our essence, our understanding of them. To understand them is to understand ourselves. They're the ones who make them. They're the ones who're gonna move us forward. Veysel and Veysel Çelebi (;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;?, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all are the fruits of this land......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................, they, they, they, they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they', they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they'., they're all, they'., they're all, they're We walk with stability; we love our republic, our nation. So we set goals for our hundredth year in 2023. Dear lawmakers, two local elections, three general elections, two public votes and a presidential election are the discretion of the public. In election times, fiscal discipline has not been broken, market trust has not been compromised. Thank you to this community, to this nation's unconditional sovereignty. Ataturk's vision of the level of confluenced civilizations has been achieved in the field of both economic and political diplomacy in the time of our power, and our people have earned the level and stability they deserve. The Ataturk Research Centre's 2012 budget totals $2,393,000. With these feelings and thoughts, I respectfully salute and hope that the 2012 budget will be a blessing to all our institutions and our country.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0181par0133	Thank you, Mr. Yeshchi. Our next speaker, Ankara MP Mr. Gülter Eylül. Here you go, Mr. Nice.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0182par0137	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed members of the High Assembly, saying that I am proud to have taken the oath for the first time before the Grand Assembly of the great Turkish nation as MP of the 24th term. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party, I have made a commitment to the budget and activities of the Ataturk Cultural Centre, one of the four institutions that constitute the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was founded in 1983 to study the Ataturkian thought, the Ataturk principles and languages, Turkish culture, Turkish history, and Turkish language scientifically. To consider culture, language and history as a uniting force in national solidarity and integration is based on the scientific deniability of any foreign and separatist currents against these values. As a nation, we live in a geography, the cradle of civilizations that have one of the number of cultures and civilizations in the world. You all know how important it is for all the material and spiritual values created in society to be preserved, evaluated, introduced, and passed on to future generations. For this reason, our institutions of science and culture have a great deal of responsibility. The Ataturk Cultural Centre, a cultural academy, works with the consciousness of this responsibility and operates with other institutions. The centre has organised national and international conventions, symposiums, conferences, continuous and indefinitely broadcasts from its organisation to date. He gave research scholarships to encourage cultural research and helped investigate and promote Turkish culture through his projects. The Ataturk Cultural Centre, such as other institutions of the Language and History Institute, has tried to conduct its activities in spite of the legal gaps in the institution's law since 2001. Our government, the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History, has tried to resolve this loophole with the State of the Law on the Agency and its duties, and has opened the way for institutions to perform their services more effectively. The Ataturk Cultural Centre also supported many important projects despite its limited budget. One of these projects is the project titled "Repainted Borders, Identities, and Turkey," which is supported by the 20th anniversary of the independence of the Turkish Republics. This project, carried out by the Ataturk Cultural Centre with the contributions of the Turkish Language Foundation, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, has been a meaningful study in the 20th year of the independence of the scientific world, which we have shared historical and cultural values, and of the brothers and sisters. In 2011, scholarships for grad school and PhD students continued in collaboration with universities. Many books on different areas of Turkish culture have been published, and especially the journals of Virtue and Arish have been reconnected with their readers this year. In addition, the centre organised the National Student Symposium of the Young Student and supported by Mehmet Akif Ersoy and the Istikllial Anthem, which is entirely for encouraging young researchers. A project called the Turkish Culture of the Republic, which aims to address the cultural life of the Republic with all its dimensions and promote modern Turkey's cultural savings in world science and culture, has been completed and published the first three volumes. I would like to request that the future activities of the Ataturk Cultural Centre include a wider cultural, social, and human view of the Turkish nation's history and a special mission, such as the mission described to TÜBITAK. I'd like to thank all of you who've been working on the 2012 budget, and I'd like to wish you all the best and the best.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0183par0150	Thank you, Mr. Nice. Our next speaker is Mr Selçuk Özdağ, MP of Manisa. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0184par0154	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Turkish Language Foundation budget. I salute your high council. In human and social life, language is a priority of vital values. Allah has created all living things with their tongues. Philosophy, art, politics, thinking have its own language; medicine, mathematics, music, squares, streets. So there is a saying first. It is said. We think in language; we speak in language; we weep in language; we cry in language; we sing in song; we make peace in language; we fight in language; we are born in language; we grow in language; we die in language; we die in language. The Turkish language is one of the oldest and most common five languages in the world that some 350 million people speak in various dialects. We have a perfect past, a perfect future. We conquered this land with our tongue. Yes, the Turkish Language Study Society, founded in 1932 for the development of our Turkish language, was named after the Turkish Language Foundation at the Turkish Language Assembly in 1936. His work is just as valuable to us as his historical heritage and memory. At a time when he was politically involved, the Turkish Language Agency had removed the Turkish language from being the language of civilization, disassociating its relationship with the languages of the world. Throughout history, Turkish, which has the ability to relate to all neighbouring languages, especially Chinese, without complexity, and to take concepts of every language they associate with, was then turned into an introverted, agitated, and devoid of the development horizon. The number of words in the Turkish dictionary, unfortunately, has dropped to 30,000, as a result of self-contamination and decontamination by the theory of the Sun Language, and then by the influence of the history-breaking mentality, devoid of the Turkish language of civilization. This negativity ripped Turkey out of its history, as well as from other Asian Turkish communities and close geography.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0185par0157	Is that why you're taking Arabic?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0184par0158	As the Turkish Language Foundation distanced itself from politics and in particular in recent years, studies on Turkish language began to be carried out at a more academic level. As a result of the superior efforts of the Turkish Language Foundation and our scientists at our universities, we have reached the Turkish Dictionary, which consists of 30,000 words of Turkish Dictionary. I also think it would be helpful to mention the Turkish Language Foundation's 2011 activities and 2012 projects. In 11 months of 2011, 40 books and 21 magazines were published, and 27 books were published. The 11th edition of the Turkish Dictionary was made in 100,000 copies. The virtual store has been launched and Turkish Language Agency publications are being sold online. The number of dictionaries opened to access has been 13 with the Open of the Synonym and Close Words Dictionary in Turkish. All of the magazines published by the agency were digitally transferred, so 29,000 articles, writing, and essays were offered to the ministry in a virtual environment free of charge. The Turkish Language Foundation library has opened its digitals to access the price of 700 pieces of writing. 195 students with a degree in Turkish language and a master's degree have been granted a scholarship and 10 post-doc scholarships have been added to the 2012 scholarship programme. The drafting of Turkish Sign Language Dictionary and grammar information and the translation of the works of foreigners in Turkology into Turkish, the Turkish Ethimology Dictionary of Turkey, which is included in the 2012 budget, and the study of Turkish-language software projects for foreigners will continue with the method of remote teaching. I'd like to thank the president of the Turkish Language Foundation and its employees for their work. The language of a developing nation that is rich in all its forms cannot be poored. Turkish has to be the language of the world. Turkish should be opened to the world, as Turkish schools all over the world do. On behalf of the Turkish nation, I would like to express my gratitude to the Turkish lovers who hold the Turkish Olympics. So the mental barriers in front of Turkish being the dominant language again must be removed. The Turkish Language Foundation should not be a word factory in exchange for foreign words, but a institution that also develops language philosophy that supports projects to open the horizon to Turkey, leading to the creation of policies that will integrate Turkish into the world. Turkish is our homeland. In Turkish, my sound flag is called Fazil Hüsnü is our language flag, as the mountains call it. Protecting, developing, keeping Turkey alive, at the same time protecting and keeping Turkey alive. The Turkish Language Foundation and we are responsible for protecting this country and this flag. The Turkish nation must again remove the John Kemalites and say that this language is my mother's white milk in my mouth. Cemil Meric, ▪Kamus is an honest man. He must restore his motto. Sulejman Nazif, the ruler of the words, must rewrite Tariq Buğa, who has not given up the value of Turkish language. Rejecting the fabrication imposed on our society, calling it froggy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Necip Fadil must write poetry. Osman Yüksel Serdentı must ask him again how the spirit must be blown, how they destroyed a generation in the city without a temple. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are our official Turkish language and will be like this from now on. And as a reminder of that fact, he emphasises that everyone on this land should have the right to learn, speak, and apologize in their native language, wishing that the 2012 budget would be a blessing, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0186par0177	Thank you very much, Mr. Özdağ, thank you. Our next speaker, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0187par0181	Mr. President, members, I'm going to talk to you about the Turkish Historical Society. It's hard to talk about history, it's not easy. Cemil Meric, a great historian, makes a statement in the introduction as he talks about Ibn Haldun (Ibn Haldun), who looks at the plain in mists from the constellations of the Castle of Peace. Thus is history. The historian tries to reduce the light of truth to the reality in those mists, but in doing so, he certainly has an ideology, a way of looking at the world, an ideology that the historian himself is involved in. The fact that the study area is in the fog and that the student's view of the truth in its own way makes it difficult to be a historian, but history has always been one of the main fields of all societies. The written history, see, the Heredot's eyes are blind, but they are historians, Tukidides tells of the Peleponnes Wars, the work of Ibn Haldý Haldime of Ibn Haldim (introduction) -- my speech, I think, offers very basic data on the methodology of history. Even illiterate societies are constantly trying to shed light on the future by repeating what their ancestors had done in the past. In this framework, as a parallel institution after the establishment of the Republic of Turkey -- just now other institutions were counted here -- is created in 1930 by the Turkish Historical Association. It's an extremely important institution. An approach that explores the past existence of Turkishness, what it has done in history, and is also trying to bring politics into the future from here. That is essentially the duty of history, not just to tell the past; but to talk about the past in the future. The Turkish Historical Association has been working in this direction, and has been involved in very important activities. He organized international conventions, published important magazines. These days, he's in charge of his staff, and he's getting 115 assistants, so best of luck. We would like these expert assistants to enrich the work of the Turkish Historical Society. In Turkey, especially recent history is a conflict zone. There's dichotomy, there's contrast, we know all about it. It's about Lauzan, about Sevr. It's about Abdulhamit. These are almost symbolic subjects. There's a lot of heated debate going on at the end of the day. It's not really a discussion of the past, it's a discussion of the future. Basically, what cold historians need to do is reduce a little bit of this hot political interest in history and put a real representation of what really happened in the past in front of society as much as possible. I'd like the Turkish Historical Society to do this kind of work. Of course it's official history in a society. Turkey also had official history for many years. What's wrong is that you make official history a dominant history and prevent alternative history from working. This is wrong. When you stop it, it replaces alternative historianry with healing historianry; people begin to talk and to complain. Basically, a very important service by the Turkish Historical Society, and by approaches that encourage alternative historianry, is to prevent stories based on lies, false healing, and historical narratives. In this sense, I want the Turkish Historical Society to do social, political work on the recent period of Turkey with a broader perspective. In doing these studies, I feel that the absolute principle is that when the EC PARTY is expressing itself, it is to be a person of the lonely. It is a party that underlines the matter with precision. History, as Benjamin puts it, is the history of the victors. Those who are defeated do not have much place in history. I hope that as the EC PARTY brings a new breath to historianry, as it is today, it will be the voice of both the victors and the outcasts in history, and it will show strong will to reveal the true, social and political history of the Turkish community. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0188par0190	Mr. Bostanci, thank you. Now it's time for representatives of the nationalist movement group. First speaker Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0189par0196	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of the budgets for Radio and Television Supreme Council and Press Information General Directorate under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, the Central Management Budget Bill of 2012 is the 10th and 61st AKP government's 1st budget. Budgets show how much the government has invested in what areas and how much resources it will provide from what areas. In this budget, again prepared on tax-based resources, our citizens, workers, civil servants, pensioners, farmers, tradesmen, and small-time citizens, have again received a low share. On this occasion, like every province, Kahramanmarash waits for many investments in our province awaiting new resources. Many of our investments, such as roads, schools, hospitals, industry, new incentives and irrigation channels, await the 2012 budget because Kahramanmarash has many problems. Mr. President, the High Council of Radio and Television was established in 1994, when the Law on the Foundation and Publications of Radio and Television No. 3984 came into force. The Radio and Television Oversight Board has been assigned to organise and oversee radio and television broadcasting. Our institution has taken on a remarkable task for our young people and children. Therefore, the High Council of Radio and Television must do its duty meticulously and in the best possible way. Private radio and television broadcasts began in our country from the beginning of the 1990s. In 1993, the Constitutional amendment allowed private radio and television broadcasts to be made. After this change, there are 25 national, 15 regional, 207 local television channels, and 38 national, 98 regional, 922 local radio stations, total 1,058 radio stations. That's why the Radio and Television Oversight should be well-organized and seriously supervised by radio and television broadcasting. Public response, approval and sensitivity regarding radio and television broadcasts should be closely monitored. It should be noted that institutions that publish unfairly and do not conform to society's principles. Radio and television broadcasts should not violate the national and spiritual values of society and the Turkish family structure. Private life must be respected in the publications. In recent years, there has been a general dissatisfaction with television broadcasts. No matter what part of society you go to today, our people are uncomfortable with irresponsible broadcasting on television. For the sake of ratings in many publications, the tradition of this country, its national and spiritual values, its understanding of publishing, which ignores the mental health of our children and young people. Especially when children and housewives watch television, programs are broadcast that make people's private lives sound like each other. Today, I regret to inform you, audience complaints to the Radio and Television Oversight have revealed that there have been harmful, Turkish family structures and immoral publications to children and young people. It's a very bad situation. Because the values of audience complaints are the most valuable values of our society. Turkish family structure and morality should not be allowed to broadcast that would harm our children and our young ones. The Radio and Television Oversight is available for these tasks; the arrangement and supervision are between their duties. But given the audience's complaints, this institution has failed to perform its duties. Radio and television broadcasts should be free from bad habits, bringing our children and young ones to new horizons, highlighting education and learning. In addition, the presence and independence of the state of the Republic of Turkey, the undivisable integrity of the state with its country and nation, should not be allowed to publish against the Ataturk principles and teachings. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs must make sure that the Radio and Television Oversight does its job fully. This institution should not be remembered for corruption and irregularities by being a non-disputable institution; it should be removed from the political pressures of the ruling party and have the true autonomy structure. That's all we wish for. Dear friends, these institutions are for all of us. Each of these institutions has separate services and tasks. When an institution does not do or does not do its duty, there is trouble in that area. So let's avoid the behavior that will prevent and politicalize the work of our institutions. A similar situation is happening today on our Radio and Television Oversight. The institution must be removed from its appearance and begin its work on responding to expectations. Because in the mornings and evenings, even at every hour of the day, he expects a lot from our people's Radio and Television Oversight. Public violence, terrorism, ethnic discrimination, or the public should never have the opportunity to see the difference between class, race, language, religion, religion, and the region, incitement to hatred or hatred in society. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers appear as the most important element in the principles of broadcasting neutrality in radio and television broadcasts. Therefore, especially in the publications related to political parties should be treated completely objectively and objectively. The Radio and Television Oversight has its flaws, unfortunately, in many matters. This institution's biased position in the June 12th parliamentary election is still under discussion. In the reflection of the news, the principles of neutrality, realism, and truth must be adhered to, avoiding news that deceives and deceives the people. The board must make all its arrangements in that direction. In the meantime, publications that will harm our young ones and our children should also be avoided. Our country has lived and lived many heroes in the past. These heroic epics should also be avoided from broadcasts that will humiliate or damage them. My wish is that during the works of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the broadcast is being broadcast and closed at 7 p.m. I wish this situation would be corrected immediately. I wish our people's freedom of information should not be destroyed. I also wish that the 2012 budget would be a blessing, with the desire to encourage and support our regional television networks in local areas.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0190par0211	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Our second speaker is Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Kalayci.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0191par0214	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. From December 7th to December 17, 2011, we were in the province of Iconya. The International Memorial Ethnics are being carried out at Vuslat Anniversary 738. I hereby remember the great Turkish and Islamist thinker, Masula Jalâlladdin Rûmî, with gratitude, gratitude, and mercy. I wish that his love of man, nature, and God, and his high ideas, will forever enlighten mankind. Dear lawmakers, in the matter of the law referred to as the Divine Law these days, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc will not be able to bring this law back to the Parliamentary General Assembly. The Law that was passed yesterday is the same as the Commission, and it's coming to the General Assembly, so let's see what Mr. Arinc does. In fact, the Deputy Prime Minister did not dare bring the arrangement to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on another matter. Although the Law of Authority is beyond its purpose and its scope and has no urgency, there is an arrangement for non-Muslim community foundations that have nothing to do with the State Department of Food Agriculture and Animalism, which were published in the Official Gazette on August 27, 2011. Now, I ask you, why were you in such a hurry to make this arrangement by overstepping the authority vested in the government? Why did you kidnap this arrangement from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Don't you dare? The AKP is constantly making laws on non-existent community foundations, but after each arrangement, the government's back was patted on the back, while regulations were deemed inadequate, new demands were raised. During the AKP period, the first regulation of non-Muslim community foundations was under EU harmonisation laws in 2003. In 2008, Foundations Act 5737 and Community Foundations were removed from exceptional status and were granted the status of other foundations established according to the Civil Law. In fact, our Constitution and the Turkish Civil Law say that there is no foundation to support members of a certain congregation. However, with AKP's arrangements, limited and exceptional rights with the Lausanne Agreement were extended to the hilafa of this agreement and the non-Muslim community foundations were brought to the same status as other foundations, regardless of the requirement for reciprocity. Thus, the foundation of non-Muslims, Christians and Jewish citizens, while the majority of the Muslim people in our country lacks a religious, community-oriented foundation, has been granted all kinds of rights. The AKP government has brought positive discrimination to church foundations, synagogue foundations. On August 27, 2011, they announced to non-Muslim community foundations in 1936, but now they have a way of registering all non-results in the names of their foundations. This arrangement is not seen by the relevant environments, either in the European Union Progress Report in 2011, or in the statements issued, and is criticised for the non-returning of goods that have not entered into the 1936 declaration of the property of hundreds of its institutions. This shows how far the AKP government has come to make mistakes. A process that can be taken to Ayasofia is requested to be opened. The current arrangement does not cover this. You say, "It's true, but why are you handing over what was declared in 1936 tomorrow, and if you are told not to give up the undeclared ones, how will you defend it? And it is said, "Indeed, it is." There's no telling how far this will go with the lawsuits at the European Court of Human Rights. For the latest arrangement, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc says that we return the real estate we've been selling to the community foundation. He's probably not aware of the position he's in, and he's calling the government he's representing an extortionist, and in a sense, he's opening the way for compensation lawsuits that will be in return for the gas. And if he really wants to see his property in Cyprus, in Greece, in Bulgaria, in the Balkans, if he really wants to see those who don't know the historical facts, I suggest that he sees how the foundations are being looted, what real estates are being destroyed. It is incumbent upon us to give the minorities their rights. You say, "You give the rights by force." Well, whose neck is it to seek the rights of the Muslamans? What did you do for God's sake? Gasbedlen, why don't you return billions of dollars' worth of property from the plundered Muslim foundations? Why don't you make all these arrangements for the church foundation and look for the rights of the foundations we've established? Why are you saving one-sided without seeking the requirements for the reciprocity required by the Lausanne Agreement? The Patriarchy, which aims to create a new Vatican for the Orthodox world in Istanbul, follows a progressive strategy. Many phases of this strategy have been implemented in the AKP's government. The Patriarchy, who has not given up its ambitions to renegotiate its dreams on the Anatolian soil, has put pressure on the AKP government with the support of the United States and the European Union to open the Heybeliada School out of our educational system, to secure the ownership of the Patriarchate and the formation of the Turkish government, with the support of the Union of the United States and the European Union. As a matter of fact, US officials, especially the presidents and foreign ministers of the United States, did not bring them up during every visit they made to Turkey. The same issues are being followed by the EU and the progress reports include these demands, and AKP governments meet them one way. The Patriarchy's property issue and the return of Greek foundations have been recorded at considerable distance. A positive approach has been made by the AKP government on opening the Heybeliada Religious School, which is being tried to create public opinion on the issue. During his visit to Greece, the prime minister could say that they were working to open the seminary and that it would not bother them if the Patriarch had used the ecumenical adjective. Last year, the deed of the Greek Orphanage of the Great God was murdered and handed over to the Greek Patriarchy, so that for the first time, a religious community without a legal personality instead of a foundation was given up for the first time. This is a quality that will allow the Greek Patriarchy to have a corporate personality and to open the way for the claim of ecumenicalism. For the first time in the history of the Republic and contrary to the Lausanne Agreement, it has been allowed for non-Turkish Metropolitans to become members of the Board of Directors of the Fener Rum Patriarchy during the AKP government. Later, it was attempted to break the law by making these Sen Sinods a Turkish citizen. Last year's EU Progress Report states that 14 Orthodox priests were granted Turkish citizenship by the AKP government. In connection with the religious needs of the Greek community, Greek-based foreign priests who do not comply with any proportions continue to demand that they become Turkish citizens. Again, the AKP government has allowed the ritual to be performed at the historic Sumela Monastery, which has been closed to worship for years, and at the Akdamar Church. I'm running out of time. I'm asking the Justice and Development Party (AKP) why was the request to perform Friday prayer in this Ayasofya province rejected? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0192par0230	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Our next speaker is Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0193par0235	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group for the budget talks of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute and its institutions in 2012. Turkish history, culture and civilization were founded on 15 April 1931 by the Turkish Institute of History and a year later by the directives of Ataturk. These two institutions, which work in association status, have signed important investigations within the framework of the institution's objectives. It was taken into consideration by the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History, which was issued under Article 134 (P.S.) of the Constitution following the 1980 military coup. In addition, the Institute included the Ataturk Cultural and Ataturk Research Centres. In addition, Turkish Historical and Language Institutions are half-owners of Ataturk's shares in the Business Bank, maintaining their features within this framework. The main goal of such a income is to prevent both institutions of scientific research from being dependent on the state budget and to carry out their work without any pressure. In the meantime, I'd like to inform you about Ataturk's share in the Business Bank. Ataturk is 28.09 percent of the stake in the Business Bank. According to the will, its management was left to the Republican People's Party as institutional property, and each year its income was split by half to Turkish Historical and Turkish Language Institutions. So the CHP won't get any shares of the revenues, but it will be in charge of the bank for Ataturk. However, the two institutions adopted into the High Institution have been transformed into institutions in accordance with the 2876 Supreme Institutional Law, which was adopted after 1980, under the control of the state's recruitment of members of the scientific board, even if not in their scientific studies. Now, on 2 November 2011, a decree issued by the law was further increased by military administration to control the state. The heart would wish that both of our distinguished institutions, Ataturk, would be organized as academies, as Ataturk had expressed in the 1936 Assembly opening speech. Dear lawmakers, the academy and institutes of almost every country that serve this kind of service are fully independent of the state in both management and scientific research. Because non-obstructive research doesn't do any good. Unfortunately, a new law on our institutions has been drawn up, but this rule has been ignored, and institutions are completely under state control. As a matter of fact, in accordance with the law passed, let's see who the body is formed under the name of the High Council of Counsellors. The High Advice Council consists of three members elected for three years by the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Foreign Minister, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Education and other ministers to be determined by the Prime Minister of Education and others by the Prime Minister of Higher Education, President of the Higher Education Board, and scientists who are known for their original scientific research into the field of the President's Office. The President and the Prime Minister head the High Council of Counsellors as they see fit. No matter who has a conscience, everyone will question the work of political figures mentioned above the Council of Counsellors of a scientific research institution, as long as they stay away from political debates. Furthermore, how would foreign scholars view the scientific work of our institutions when they see that they are made up of state officials? Such construction, as we always take as an example, does not exist in the European countries, nor in the United States, nor in Russia. A scientific institution's advisory council is made up of politicians, and its task is to assess the activities and activities of higher institutions and institutions in the field of science and culture, and by taking the necessary recommendations, it gives its opinion to the High Institution and institutions. If these decisions are first noted by the High Institution and institutions, how can they be trusted in a study based on the views of politicians rather than scientific data? Also, there is another substance, which is not considered the duties of the High Council of Advisors and is not available anywhere else in the world, which is a clear evidence that these institutions are not a scientific institution. The sixth article of Article 5 states that the decisions required by the Higher Advice Board are published in the Official Gazette. How would you interpret that? What scientific research decisions among the countries of the world are included in the Official Gazette? Thus, such sanctions have left the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History completely from being a scientific institution, and have put the military administration in a position to search. Dear lawmakers, the situation is not only limited to the High Council of Counsellors. Let's see who the board of directors is made up of. The Article of the Law is exactly this: the Executive Board consists of two members elected by the President of the High Institution, and members elected by the Prime Minister and the Minister concerned, and presidents of the Institution. The Governing Body meets at least once a month. If necessary, the Prime Minister or the Minister may call an extraordinary meeting with the Governing Body. As I mentioned earlier, there are no government officials in any country in the world, including scientific institutions. The law, however, has not stated that members elected by Mr. President, Prime Minister and Minister will be selected by scientists in any way, so a bureaucrat can be appointed here. So who will be appointed to the Governing Body? For what reason would the Prime Minister and Minister call an extraordinary meeting of the Governing Body? Even the law, which was drafted by the Military Council in the past period, does not exist. Again, it shows that the Governing Body has only a symbolic quality. Another of the distortions in the law was the co-ordinating of four institutions in the Old Law 2876, but this time, as an executive agency, another institution has assumed its primary duties, a dissolution of authority. Basically, the High Institution doesn't have a research agency, nor does it have a scientific committee. In the first joke, however, it is called doing scientific research on Ataturk and his works within the integrity of social and humanities and in all aspects of the Turkish language, history, culture, and all aspects of its work, and conducting seminars, symposiums, conferences, and so on. It is also explained in its duties to do scientific research, to do, and to support the work done in the field that contributes to the social and cultural development of our nation. If all these jobs were to be done by the Supreme Institution, then why are four other institutions being established and why are staff employed unnecessarily? However, the original scientific research mission was given to institutions with separate corporate personalities, such as the duties of the Turkish Historical Society -- I say as the new Law -- "Doing studies that will expose Turkish history and Turkey's history in all its aspects in accordance with the facts, clarifying national and international public opinion against defamation and distortions of our history." Dear lawmakers, the most important thing to our attention in this new Law at the Turkish Historical Foundation is to "open national and international public opinion against slanders and distortions concerning our history and in accordance with the facts." The expression is used. You can't do objective research in history by conditioning yourself. To whom will the truth be based, and what is the measure of truth? In the old law, the purpose of the Turkish Historical Society is to write "Turkish history and Turkey's history and its relevant issues, scientific study, research, promote, publish and publish the services of Turks to civilization," and on the basis of that, to write Turkish history and Turkish history." A more objective target was created, as they were called. But the new Law uses the expression "drills and distortions of our history," and depending on that, you define the facts in your own way. However, the goal in scientific research is to investigate what it is and how it is. The duties of the Turkish Language Agency in the New Law have been shown as "to study and prepare Turkish language's source works for publication, to follow research conducted on Turkish issues abroad and abroad, to create archive and documentation centers, information banks and databases within the Integrated Information System." However, the aims of such foreign institutions are to reveal the beauty of language. As a matter of fact, this was specifically expressed in the Old Law 2876. As it turns out, it is clear what was done with the new Law, which was established in 1932 and set their goals. From the day it was founded, the Turkish Language Foundation has published and developed the Turkish Dictionary, prepared the Comparative Turkish Polish Dictionary, the Dictionary of Words and Terims, and, above all, presented all of this to the service of the world via the Internet. If you go to the Turkish Language Foundation's website, you'll see a lot more. The Ataturk Research and Ataturk Cultural Centers, listed as other binding institutions, also appear to have had similar changes in their duties. On the other hand, it is not possible to explain how these institutions, which have been given a corporate personality, are connected to another corporate personality. Because while the definition of higher institutional institutions is being made, the Ataturk Research Centre, the Turkish Language Foundation, the Turkish Historical Institution and the heads of the Ataturk Cultural Centre are the institutions that are involved in the establishment of the High Institution. Institutions have separate public policy personalities and carry out their duties in accordance with the rules of service and legislation and policy and strategies set by the board of directors, under the supervision, audit and co-direction of the Supreme Institution's presidency. Instead of making such a law and defusing institutions, be open and shut down all these institutions and form one institution under the name of the Supreme Institution, but you will not dare to do so. Because Turkish Historical and Turkish Language institutions are the two most important institutions in the republic's will, and as soon as you close, you face political problems. Congressmans, I can't find a word to say about this, and I'll leave it to you to appreciate what kind of a freak has been created by this law. Congressmans, let's look at the subject from another window and consider what's best for the country. Because let's get rid of the laws of military coups and the Constitution. You'll say, "You'll make a worse law than the laws of that time." In fact, what needs to be done is to organize the Turkish Historical Institute established by Ataturk and Turkish Language institutions in the form of an academy. If we do that, you can imagine how much they would serve, considering the vast financial resources of our two distinguished institutions. The business bank revenue of these two institutions is approximately 60 to 70 million Turkish liras per year. As of 2006, the amount from the past period has been taken, each of which today has a budget of more than 400 million. Between 1993 and 2008, I was President of the Turkish Historical Society. During this 15-year period, many projects have been implemented. I must point out that none of these projects continue. Why hasn't the cultural presence abroad been vetted? How can we consent to the destruction of these artifacts that our ancestors left behind, each of which could be described as world heritage, especially when the Ottoman cultural beings of the Balkans are being eliminated one by one, while their present is being condemned to lose architectural properties under the name of restitution? From what we've heard today, an inventory study is being launched by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. In the Balkans, however, in Greece, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Kosovo, Croatia, Serbia, Hungary, Romania, Crimea, Crimea; Azerbaijan and Georgia in the Caucasus; Syria, Jordan in the Middle East; Egypt, Tunisia in Africa; inventory in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in Asia. On the other hand, when you're repairing churches in our country and even turning mosques into churches, why don't you continue and try to redo them and delay them? As in Thessaloniki Mr. Hamza Bey Mosque in the Balkans, the porn theater where three films were filmed together, the dome covered with sexual images, the Pfilbe Sunday Mosque, where we see you as the church turned into the Gum Solomoniye Mosque, where you are destroyed and replaced by the martyr Sultan Mehmet Mosque in Ohrid, who is called the Imamaret mosque of Hazreti Christ's birth in the year 2000? In addition, the translation of the Chinese Han Dynasty dates of 1200 B.C.E. was left incomplete at the Turkish Historical Association. However, these artifacts are the oldest written sources in Turkish history. By 2008, when I was elected president, two books from the Huns and the Skypes had been published. Who is offended by the introduction of these ancient Chinese works to Turkish? On the other hand, more than 100,000 pages of documents were provided from foreign archives regarding Armenian genocide claims. Remember, today, if Turkey can offer to set up a history commission, it's because of these studies. In addition, the Cyprus issue remains silent, even though it is the country's most important problem. However, a study of the foundations in Cyprus was conducted by the State Department. Are you aware of the existence of an institution that will investigate this when the Syrian issue is on the agenda? As for my class, it's been completely silent. However, the purpose of the Turkish Historical Society was to do studies that would reveal our history in all its aspects in accordance with the facts, to clarify national and international public opinion against the defamation and distortions of our history? Even research on Cyprus in the institution in the past period has not been publicized. The issue of Greek goods left in Cyprus today is causing Turkey to pay huge compensations. However, it should have been revealed that there were around 700 foundations in Cyprus, especially Lala Mustafa Paşa and Abdullah Pasha Foundations, from 1913 to 1930, were given their land as property to the Greeks, so that what appears to be Greek goods is the real foundation and will be demanded of them rather than of paying compensation. And given that there were 60,000 acres of land belonging to the Abdullah Pasha Foundation from the Maraş region to Nicosia and 30,000 acres of Lala Mustafa Pasha Foundation, it would be seen who would pay compensation to whom. Also, without the foundation of events that took place in the Middle East today -- the Ottoman geography -- there will be no accurate detection of the target in policies in this region, and it will be led to adventure in error. As there are praising pages in history, history is also full of suffering caused by those who have done wrong. Today, as we cruelly criticize and accuse historical and historical figures, tomorrow, someone will accuse us the same way. Dear lawmakers, historical knowledge is the result of a test of sources to understand the verbs that people perform and the network of relationships between these elephants. As a result, the knowledge of history is common to society. It's the last culture of common values. For this to happen, it must bring consciousness to all members of the nations and embrace direction and goals. In this sense, history is not just a branch of science about past times, but it becomes verbs that program new formations that create short and long-term changes in social order. I'm aware that my time is running short, and I just want to point out that there have been a series of Muslim museums being built by our Ministry of Culture recently. Unfortunately, officials who do not know the date of the exchange also think the Greeks who went to Greece in 1922 were Muslims. A museum that is being built in the olive grove is an example of this. The foundation of ignorance stems from the lack of serious research into our history. Are those who know and those who do not know equal? The work of the verse has not been brought down. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The correction of the setbacks that put our institutions in a cumbersome position, depending on the preparation of the Constitution, I think, will remove the concerns and allow them to investigate with the true identity of the institutions. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0194par0272	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Dear MPs, now it's time for the Republican People's Party Group. The first speaker is Mr. Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Oyan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0195par0278	Members of parliament, I will discuss the budgets for the RTÜK and Press Publishing and Information General Directorate. First, let's talk about the neutrality of RTÜK.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0196par0280	Not to be wrong, your bias or your neutrality?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0195par0281	Sir, I'll tell you. Article 34 of this relevant law defines: "The RTÜK, which has administrative and financial autonomy in order to regulate and supervise the television and optional publishing services sector, is established -- underlineing -- is a public policy-based personality established. " Now, do you know such an RTÜK? Is there such an RTÜK in Turkey? I mean, is this, like, a laughing object that's been put in the text of the law? Let us now look at the sanctions of the so-called neutrality of the RTÜK. From 2010 to today, when you look at the distribution of reports presented to the Oversight about television broadcasts, and look at the violation decisions made by the Supreme Council on these reports, how biased it is. Let me give you a little example: Channel 7, Milky Way TV, Channel 24, TV Net, where the channels, which are specifically backed up, appear to be very obvious, to be favoured, there are very few reports about them, very few violations. There's a total of 21 violations. In return, I'd like to give you two examples of television as marginal as audience groups: National Channel and People's TV channels. In particular during the election season, the 2010 election and now the 2011 election have been decided to stop programme for Public TV 36 times, 25 times in total for the National Channel. And notice, though the four ruling supporters I've mentioned just now included defamatory publications about the basic qualities of the channel, Ataturk and the republic, and the complaints about them are tied to the reports, they have been described under freedom of expression and no sanctions have been made. By the way, on March 3, 2011, this law on RTÜK is subject to RTÜK control at TRT, but here's an interesting thing, not all the channels of TRT, but TRT 1 and TRT News televisions only. This is a one-sided attitude, which is illegal, but let's just say there are 243 complaints about these two channels. There are only six of these complaints where the evaluation report is being filed, not only 3 will it be necessary to apply, but only 1 will be required, and 2 will be reported to the Supreme Election Board. So you see here that the so-called coverage of the TRT (TRT) is not a cause for consequence. So TRT isn't actually controlled by RTÜK. Why? Because he's a supporter. Now, of course, that's not the case for the media in their ignorance to criticize RTÜK. As a result of the biased decisions of the RTÜK, censoring understanding, we can't see such decision-making mechanisms for the media close to power as they focus on warnings, warnings, excessive administrative fines, and even punishments leading up to the blackout. So in fact, we also know how the power rod consolidates tax penalties that break the world record, and how the Finance Ministry is used to bring in vehicles that RTÜK has no control of. Let's stress something more important: here there are debates about the number of journalists arrested in the media world in Turkey, and there are other things that are more common than that, in fact, many journalists, many media members, have been banned from doing their professions. They have either been laid off or they have been withdrawn, and the number of them is not expressed by those of them, but by those of them. It is decided in the Prime Minister's kitchen who these will be. So this kitchen is in the hands of the Prime Minister himself, and the hand of power extends everywhere, my dear friends. Of course, it's probably a joke when the Prime Minister gathers his newspaper bosses and tells them how to take a stand in a hall, where a country is still defined as democratic or even advanced democratism. We think it's more appropriate to describe it as the construction of an autocratic regime and the knitting of a noose of a counter-revolutionary process. There is also something very interesting about the duties and powers of RTÜK. Article 37 of this law on law on RTÜK (RTÜK) defines the following: "Is there anyone among you who has seen and heard such measures to ensure freedom of expression and information in the field of public services, the diversity of thought, the environment of competition and pluralism, the prevention of concentration, the prevention of monopoly, and the protection of public interest? Does anyone have any idea that the RTÜK (RTÜK) has such a function? What do you know when you say RTUK? Just police measures, just sanctions, inspections. However, it is the first article of the duties and powers of the RTÜK (RTÜK). So to ensure the diversity of thought, the freedom of expression and information. I wish there was such an RTÜK and we could give our compliments to that RTÜK. My dear friends, did you hear where RTÜK was when the ATV-Morning group was transferred to the company where the Prime Minister's son-in-law was CEO with political and financial favours in Turkey? Where is RTÜK when all the pressure is put on the media and its employees, while the diversity of thought is being avoided? Yeah, where's RTÜK, where's the Department of Press and Information? In Turkey, opposition journalists were arrested, while TV bosses in Turkey were taking part in D.C. TV, National Canal, Canal We, ART police raids, while Oda TV executives and writers were arrested in the same context, while journalists were arrested for their unpublished book, where was freedom of expression and freedom of thought and diversity of thought? Are we just going to say that in the House? Will these not be expressed in Turkey by the institutions involved in this issue? My dear friends, we may be asking too much here. So RTÜK actually ignores these tasks and thinks it's just police work, but even here, it's not neutral, so different measures for the advocacy media, different measures for the media that it accepts, which is completely subjective. I mean, we're waiting for a minimum professional ethics, and we're looking for an RTÜK, my dear friends, who are ashamed of the role of being the government's stick. Of course, the duties of the RTÜK (RTÜK) are to identify the TRT Foundation's General Directorate and members of the board, as well as to identify their candidates. But how does it determine? At the Prime Minister's orders, whoever the Prime Minister wants comes to sit in the TRT presidency and the TRT becomes the trumpet of power. Now, about the independence of RTUK, let's go to something like this, and let's make a reminder of Parliament TV. See, my dear friends, Parliamentary Television was a publishing body that, up until recently, communicated everything that was said in this House, brought together the people and the parliamentarians. As a matter of fact, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek, meanwhile, had done a study in other countries to see how we could connect this work to a report, and this report showed that, in other countries, the work of Parliament is definitely being published in democratic countries, as well as in developed countries. So we'd actually expect it to go on from here. But what happened? The TRT General Manager has restricted Parliament TV broadcasting, citing a protocol that had previously been signed between Parliament and TRT in connection with these publications. Did he limit it on his own? Who made that decision? Look at the Prime Minister. Well, we have to ask the Speaker here, why didn't you do your duty to protect the House? My dear friends, RTÜK, although it may not have been able to maintain its independence, but we also know here how much personal independence Mr. Zahid Akman has maintained, so we could only get him out of RTÜK membership with a prosecutor's decision. Finally, let me say this: Turkey has reached a period of decision-making under the rule of law. This is the way of a force. This is the way to an AKP dictatorship. Military dictatorships are temporary, but these civilian dictatorships are permanent, but I think those who think the political square is empty will soon know they're wrong about this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0197par0303	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. The second speaker is Ankara MP Aylin Nazlıaka. Here you go, Mr. Nazlıaka.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0307	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget for 2012. Dear friends, why are foundations set up? What is the purpose of the foundations? Foundations are built because of the feeling of helping people, the feeling of doing good to those in need, right? That's the way it's supposed to be. In fact, in other words, the foundations are corporate personalities with a number of legal status that actually aim to make this collaboration permanent. In this land, in this land we live on, we've been given the best examples of social welfare and solidarity in our history. But what do we think of today, friends, when it comes to the times? Corruption's coming, Lighthouse's coming, isn't it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0199par0309	We don't think so.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0310	Now, in ten minutes, I really thought a lot about how to pass on these corruptions to you, how to use the time well; I really had a hard time. I'm going to try to fit it in as long as I can, and I'm going to try to get some points straight. The AKP government, which has been staffed by liquidating public institutions and institutions, has also coveted the public goods that this nation has collected for centuries, which have enriched its supporters with tenders. By the way, when he said "leading," Mr. Secretary just mentioned that they were new to staffing. Mr. Prime Minister said you were in your mastery phase. If you'd like to make a decision about that, are you having a mastery period or a beginner's period? You'd better clear that up, too.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0200par0314	It's not like your time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0315	Yes, dear friends, in recent years, there have been a number of restoration studies within the General Directorate of Foundations. These were made with tenders, and for some reason, these contracts were won by the same firms, my friends. What kind of coincidence is that?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0201par0316	Name it. Give me a name.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0317	The claims that the Foundations' General Directorate has been auctioned at a price that is far greater than the value of the foundations, and that a large amount of security from the Bank of Foundations in the past years has been transferred to these tenders. The removal of investigators from investigations on the subject, the changes of expert teams to determine whether the restorations are artistic and financially appropriate, whether they are being done on their true values, and the impact of reports by experts in this way strengthens these claims. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, how many investigators and experts have been dismissed in the last year? What's the amount of resources set aside for restoration in recent years? How many tenders have been filed about these? How many companies have been sued for restoration? Actually, I'm not sure I'm going to get exactly the answers to those questions. If you ask me why, I've given the Deputy Prime Minister a motion to ask him about it. On August 4, 2011, I asked him about the names and numbers of charities that were authorized to collect aid without permission. Unfortunately, in his response to my question motion, he wrote down the names of the foundations that were only authorized to seek help without permission, so he didn't write down the associations, so our famous Lighthouse is not mentioned.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0202par0319	What does it have to do with the foundations? What does it have to do with the foundation?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0320	Why does he need to hide the Lighthouse Society, the corruption case of the century?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0202par0321	What does he have to do with the foundation?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0322	Why? I'm the kind of person who follows up on questions I'm curious about. So, I gave the Deputy Prime Minister another question motion, and in this question motion, I specifically asked about the associations. I haven't heard back from him yet, waiting, waiting for an answer. Now, I'd like to ask you one more time from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the goal of the nation's will: O AKP Power, why are you so afraid of this Lighthouse?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0202par0323	We're not afraid.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0324	Come on, we know who the mole is, but who else are you hiding? Tell us what your fear is.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0203par0326	Explain, explain, nobody. Explain.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0327	You think by changing prosecutors, you can build a cocoon around a caterpillar and then turn it into a butterfly and fly it, just like that, you can cover up the case file and fly it like that? You're so wrong, because as the Republican People's Party, we're going to follow this case to the end. That's for you to know.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0204par0329	Are you a judge or a prosecutor?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0330	Mr. President, the area where the foundations serve in Turkey has changed. The foundations have now become the front door for former AKP MPs, former mayors and relatives.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0205par0331	Who bought the foundations in Turkey?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0198par0332	It is widely known that the AKP government is looting public goods with the land it gives to foundations that feed on community and cult relations.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0205par0333	Who sold most of the foundations in Turkey, and who bought the most?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0206par0334	Please, Congressman...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0207par0335	Shame, shame! This is the lady speaking, ma'am.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0208par0336	I'd like to share with you a few examples of the relations between the Foundations and the AKP government.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0207par0337	Show the lady some respect. At least know how to respect a lady.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0208par0338	Actually, it doesn't matter, it gets better, I like it better, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0209par0339	If she's like a lady.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0207par0340	That's a shame. That's a shame. You've got the ladies.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0210par0341	Please... please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0211par0342	It's no big deal, but I think it's best if we give him an emotion management training, anger management training.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0212par0343	You know who eats the foundation land.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0211par0344	Mr. President, in terms of time...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0212par0345	You know what the Ottoman foundation is.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0213par0346	Please... please, Mr. Lawmakers... Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0212par0348	If we open that book, you'll see.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0213par0349	Please... please calm down.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0214par0350	Now, I'll be opening up the books in a minute. I'll give you a few examples. For example, the Tekel estate in Cevizli was assigned to the Science Art Foundation, which was the founders of Ahmet Davutoglu, and to the İlim Yayma Foundation, which includes Kemal Unakitan, and Ahmet Davutoğlu. The rights to use and use of these land have been given to these foundations for forty-nine years. I'd also like to remind you of this information...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0215par0352	They were given to colleges, colleges.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0216par0353	Seventepe, Kadir Has University...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0214par0354	You'll talk when your time comes. The park was declared a special training area after the dedication of the land, the playground, and the land routes as a border protection junction. In addition, the municipality has granted an increase in construction and zoning permits of up to 10 floors. Another example is the Bezmilalem Foundation, founded by the General Directorate of the Foundations. The Foundation Gureba Training and Research Hospital, which serves the poor and those without health insurance, has been converted into a private university, which has been converted into a paid university. So instead of solving poverty, this transformation actually shows us once again the mind map of the AKP Power, which wants to govern poverty, friends.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0217par0357	How do you know about poverty?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0214par0358	Dear lawmakers, the foundations were the security of the poor, the poor, the orphan, the orphan, in this land, but now it's the gate of the AKP. What we've seen for nine years, the AKP government, which understands the public interest, is that public goods should be dedicated to AKP-based municipalities, AKP-backed institutions and foundations, wives, children and relatives. As I put an end to my words, I'm asking the AKP MPs who keep their words to themselves: Do you represent the nation with your silence against the corruption of the Lighthouse, which has taken money out of people's pockets by using their beliefs? Do you represent the nation with your silence against the arrest of elected MPs of the people's will?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0218par0360	That's what happens when you knowingly nominate it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0214par0361	The release of Lighthouse defendants while condemning intellectuals, journalists, students of this country, lawmakers, professors to long sentences...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0219par0362	Have you just come to your senses?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0214par0363	...and his attempts to silence the opposition from the stand reminded me of a saying that Ismet Inönul had said many years ago: You are in a hurry for criminals. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0220par0366	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0221par0367	Mr. President, I'd like to take half a minute...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0220par0368	The next speaker, Isparta...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0222par0369	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0220par0370	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0222par0371	Mr. President, as the speaker continues his speech, every time he tries to infect the Lighthouse with his followers, he tries to infect corruption. I want an explanation, sir, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0223par0372	Mr. President, criticism. What's he gonna do with no criticism?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0222par0373	What's with the criticism?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0224par0374	He accused me of corruption, sir. What else?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0225par0375	It's mud! It's mud!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0226par0376	Not even close!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0227par0377	All right, Mr. Aydın. Please don't let us be bullied again. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0382	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, in fact, are far too heavy, too unfair, we have to listen to the accusations here all the time. I'd like to ask you once, dear friends, is Turkey's only agenda the Lighthouse or the arrested MPs? Doesn't Turkey have any other issues, no agendas?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0229par0385	It's not a problem?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0230par0386	Democracy, democracy...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0387	On the most important issue, even in the greatest of difficulties, when you come and talk about everything, the Lighthouse, the arrested MPs...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0230par0388	Turkey's biggest issue is democracy. You destroyed democracy.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0389	The Lighthouse is on trial, the judge will do whatever it takes. We don't have the authority, the power, the luxury, to instruct the judiciary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0231par0391	They're committing Constitutional crime, Constitutional crime.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0392	The judgment is independent, and the judgment will take its toll. Every time you want to connect the AK PARTY with the Lighthouse, the public doesn't believe it, doesn't trust it, so don't waste your energy.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0232par0393	You end democracy, you end democracy.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0394	A little bit, this country has other issues, other problems, so speak up.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0233par0395	People there are hungry, thirsty, poor.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0396	Besides, none of the MPs were under arrest, and you're trying to get the prisoners released by making a deputy.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0234par0398	People did it, people, the national will did it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0399	Why don't you think about it? Which deputy was arrested? No deputy has been arrested.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0235par0400	Soon you'll believe that lie.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0401	When you make the prisoners a candidate for proxy, when they ask your Mr. President, we respect the discretion of his judge. Where do you have any respect left? You've been insulting judgment since yesterday. Too bad, too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0236par0402	He's talking about independent judgment, Chairman.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0403	There's no way we're gonna let you insult the judgment so much.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0236par0404	He's talking about real judgment, independent judgment; he's talking about independent judgment, not the entity.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0405	Judgement is completely independent, judgment will do its job. In the same way, when those independent deputies of yours were nominated...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0237par0406	You've created a biased judgment, and now you're leaning on it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0236par0407	He's not talking about your judgment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0408	Or rather, when your arrested paralegals were nominated, your valued lawyers said that when they became MPs, they could not be released. That day you said that, why are you insulting the judgment today? We just can't figure out why you're attacking judges so much.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0238par0410	Mr. Ahmet, what does the Supreme Election Board do?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0411	Again, dear friends, for the first time in this time, the foundations have become their true self. The foundations began to serve these people with the knowledge of the foundation. Look, in 1933, the Ancestors of Konya... are the instructions of Ataturk to Ismet Pasha.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0239par0413	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0240par0414	Time's up, Mr. President, time's up; you said one minute, he spoke for five minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0228par0415	He said, "Build this, build the foundation." He said, "It's been given to the AK PARTY to repair it." Say thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0239par0417	Mr. Aydın, thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Slim, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0241par0420	Thank you. Now, Mr. Aydın, this party has nominated our friends. Then did this pass through, did the Supreme Election Board accept these nominations? He did.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0242par0422	Did they say they'd let him go?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0243par0423	Read the Constitution 14.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0241par0424	So, did they run? I mean, they're running for office with the Supreme Election Board, and they're in public. We didn't appoint them, the party put them on the list, the Election Board approved their candidacy. When people voted, did he see those arrested MPs, did he see their candidates there? He saw it. And he still voted?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0244par0425	He did.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0241par0426	He did. Well, that's the will of the nation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0245par0428	Bravo!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0246par0429	Right... what more do you want?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0241par0430	For him, this is the nation that is under arrest, the nation itself is under arrest, the people's will is under arrest; this is the first.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0247par0431	That's not what you said in Merve Karakcı. People's will!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0241par0432	Second, what does this have to do with the lighthouse? It's not about the lighthouse, it's about the middle of it. Who's the head of RTÜK? Aren't we talking about RTUK here today? Who's the head of RTÜK? He's not on trial from the lighthouse? Who was it? Of course, who was it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0248par0434	What does it have to do with AK PARTY? It's about judgment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0241par0435	Well, that's why it's... Look, guys, we've been talking about a judicial execution in this country for years. Everyone in this country said: "There is an execution without judgment." Now there is trial and execution.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0249par0437	You threw the MPs out of this House. Dictators!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0250par0438	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0251par0439	You've never opened your mouth before, you've never said that, ever. You never told me. It just occurred to you. It occurred to you today.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0440	There was a pre-judgmental execution, and now...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0441	You threw a congressman out of the House. You dictators!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0442	Look Metiner... shut up!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0254par0443	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0444	You terrorized him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0445	Shut the fuck up!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0446	You shut up!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0447	Shut up! Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0448	Who are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0449	He's a cast pitcher! He's on staff...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0255par0451	Guys, please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0452	Come on, who are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0453	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0454	Sit down!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0256par0455	Please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0456	Mr. President, this man is sitting here...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0457	This man is you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0458	Yeah, that's who you are! Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0459	Who are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0460	Who are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0461	Who are you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0252par0462	My dear friends, from now on, to the Republican People's Party... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...when this Metiner talks, let's all answer together. All of us.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0253par0465	If you've got the heart, let's go!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit03spe0257par0466	Mr. Tütin... please, Mr. Tütin... please, Mr. Tütin... Yeah, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, guys.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0257par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Bill in 2012 on the Central Management Computation Bill in 2010. [[Continue]] D) TURK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now it's time for Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0258par0038	We're gonna need a minute.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0257par0039	I'll add one minute, yes, sir. Your time is 11 minutes, Ali Haydar Bey.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0041	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, for a moment the tension of the session rose, we met again, and this morning it began with great jokes, tolerance, constructive criticisms were tolerated, democratic understanding prevailing in our Parliament. I wish this understanding, this peaceful understanding, this democratic understanding would last. Mr. President, I'd like to welcome our esteemed deputies to the 2011 Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History and to discuss the budget of its subsidiaries. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was shaped in a way that was not proper under the rule of September 12th, on August 11, 1983. Turkey's Grand National Assembly was open in the following process, and an interesting coincidence -- on November 11, 2011 -- was tried to restructure it with a decree on the rule of law. This work was more reorganised than the arrangement of September 12th, because it was contrary to the science the Great Ataturk had predicted, it was far from arbitrary, and it was incompatible with the will of the Great Ataturk. Mr. Nazlıaka has just called for the wills of the wills to be obeyed, and some friends have been taken. In our culture, there is a call to honor the wills of those who know the culture of the foundation, to respect the call. Those who aided the Lighthouse in Germany said to the poor people of Anadolu that they should be brought to aid it. The aid led to the conviction of the founders of Germany, and the people in Turkey are still unable to stand trial. The Lighthouse is a sin to watch television before it. It is in the yeast of the Channel 7. Channel 7 is a television company with yeast at AKP's establishment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0260par0044	What kind of evaluation is that?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0261par0045	The yeast of the AK PARTY contains nations.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0046	Sir, you listen, you touch, you come in, you talk. It is forbidden to defend the Lighthouse, to defend the devourers, and to eat it as the Prophet says, and to allow it to be eaten.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0262par0049	Don't let Ismet Pasha hear you say that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0050	And to defend those who devour unlawful things is not lawful for those who follow the right course.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0263par0051	No one's defending the devourers.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0052	This is not the Berar Assembly, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You know, the council the Prophet destroyed is called the Orar Assembly. Those of you who are hypocrites of the Berar Assembly must not enter this House. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ataturk is a constitutional institution consisting of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, Ataturk Research Centre, Turkish Language Foundation, Turkish Historical Institution, Ataturk Cultural Centre. The mission of this institution, Ataturk and its work, the Turkish language, is described as doing scientific, original research on history, culture, but this definition is derived from the definition of the Ministry of National Education because our Minister of Education has sworn to stick to the principles and teachings of Ataturk here, but there is no purpose in its resolution, and what is there in it? Growing up a globally competitive, merchant, understanding youth. I wonder when Mr. Minister of National Education will be able to remove the nationalization. The Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, speaking on behalf of the AKP, Ma'am, repeats the speech of our Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, as he reiterated, grants scholarships to students, seminars, symposiums, organises workshops, contributes to the formation of national policies. The Ataturk Cultural Center is working in that direction, but we will continue to follow him carefully as the Republican People's Party of Ataturk because there are those who have never done any scientific work on Ataturk until then with regard to Ataturk, or by the minister he has appointed, who have been appointed to the Ataturkian Institute of Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0264par0056	He's the Prime Minister who appointed you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0265par0057	They were going to ask you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0058	Yes, I came by the power of my wrist, by the power of my wrist.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0265par0059	Well, well!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0060	If you count my awards, it'll be your charity.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0265par0061	Way to go, Governor!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0062	Yeah, open it, read it, friend, go on the Ali Haydar Fronter site, you'll see what you see. Dear friends, the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History, has entered some structures, integrated information systems, and so on. He tried to buy it while he was renting it, improved his new place, strengthened his staff, but what did the Institute for Ataturk Culture, Language and History do? To what extent was he able to implement the basic teachings of Ataturk? Where's the patriarchal thought? Where are those who share the patriarchal thought? What is patriarchal thought? Dear lawmakers, the Ataturkian thought is first anti-empericalist. The patriarchal thought is a liberal and a full-blown independent thought. The patriarchal thought favours national sovereignty, sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. According to the patriarch, justice is the foundation of property. According to the patriarch, peace in the land and peace in the world must be the basis of foreign policy. I'll touch every one of them as long as I can, but unfortunately, and you're unlucky, which is not enough time. We thought patriarchal thought was anti-empiralist. What is NATO doing in Libya when those who are in charge today are collaborating with the imperialists? Those who had assigned an institution to the patriarchal thought, or who had appointed an employee to the institution in that direction, became the cover of Time. Why? And he drew his sword against Syria, because Israel was a shield against him. In the same way, those who had the Ataturkian thinking were meeting with Obama every day today, and yesterday they were meeting with Bush, Bush, Bush, the son of Bush. With their gas, they became the cover of Time. This is the November 2011 issue of Time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0266par0067	We know, we know.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0068	Take your time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0267par0069	Don't be jealous, Governor, work for yourself.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0070	I'm not jealous. This is Time's November 11 cover page. This is the 2011 cover page, and this is the 2011 cover page.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0268par0072	Fake or fake?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0073	There's a picture of a person tied up here, a picture of the Prime Minister -- we want to get better at it -- and here's a picture of something.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0269par0074	Bird, bird.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0075	Take a look, take a look. I'm not gonna tell you what bird it is. (CHP turns to laugh) But...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0270par0076	You should be proud, proud.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0077	You read it, you'll be proud. Those who come to America's gas are mixing Syria. Until yesterday, they were brothers, seeking peace in the land, peace in the jihad. They were seeking zero problems under the principle, and now the brother is turning against the brother. In the patriarch's mind, justice was the foundation of property, and justice is now at the disposal of a man named Ali Dibo when you enter the Internet.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0271par0079	Where did you go again?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0259par0080	Sir, we're here to speak the truth, to be the voice of common sense. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll bring up the rest when it comes to it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0272par0085	Watch your language, straight. Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0273par0086	Mr. Proposal, your time is up, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0274par0088	You served as governor during his time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0273par0089	Please... please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0275par0090	I did it with honor, with the strength of my wrist, standing upright.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0273par0091	Now it's time for Gurkut Acar, Antalya MP. Mr. Acar, come in, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0095	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the budgets of the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society for 2012. I greet you with a bit of a heavy greeting. My heart is broken because I am unhappy to have to speak here because of the breach of the will of Ataturk. See, the fundamental pillars of being a nation are a common history and a common language. Without them, you can't be a nation, you can't be a nation. The Grand Ataturk established these two institutions, the Turkish Historical Study Society in 1931, and the Turkish Language Study Society in 1932. He led the establishment of two associations because he considered the need to do special work in two areas while being taken to the goal of cultural modernisation of society. Mustafa Kemal has shown close interest in studies in both areas, saying that before he dies, he wants this interest in his will to last forever. He left the institutions a share of his legacy so that he could continue his activities. Dear friends, Ataturk made his will handwritten on September 5, 1938, this will is İstanbul 6. It was delivered to notary Ismail Kunter, and after the death of Ataturk. Ataturk counted these two institutions in the will and wanted them to continue their work independently. This is the will of the great Ataturk. Couldn't a public institution do this if he wanted to? He could have, but he didn't. He said: "These won't be government offices." Let him operate independently, truly in the light of reason and science. Besides, the academia proposals came up at that time. Ataturk wanted these two institutions to be formed as a society. Both institutions were formed not in an official state organisation, but in accordance with private law, as individuals open to all. That's how Ataturk wanted these institutions to continue. That's the will. Does anyone else have the right to speak on this will? It shouldn't be. Dear lawmakers, property and heritage are one of the most basic human rights. This will violates and violates the rights of the most basic human right to property and inheritance in the name of Ataturk by the generals of the September 12 coup. I condemn those who did this! I condemn those who touch the heritage of Ataturk! The Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Association have been transformed into public institutions with a coup against the most basic right to inheritance. I want to draw the bottom of this once again, dear friends. Mr. President, the high-profile MPs have violated the will of Ataturk. So, what did the AKP Power do today? The attitude of today's government has not been different. Dear friends, look, on November 2, 2011, and again with the Law of 664, the AKP Power says: "The Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society are the Prime Minister's institution. The AKP has no intention of living the will of Ataturk. But there is a difference between coupgers -- now I want to give you the difference: When the coupgers make the law, they say: "In the holy hand of Ataturk, and under the great founder and guardianship of the AKP, what is it called in the Turkish Republic of Turkey? At Ataturk's command and request, the Turkish Historical Institution, founded under the high guard of Ataturk, has violated Ataturk's will, but they have tried to write it down in the text of the law that the institutions of Ataturk are the institutions of Ataturk. What did the AKP do? Dear friends -- I draw your attention -- with the same mental attitude as the coupgers -- continued to violate the will of Ataturk, and did one more thing, and wiped the name of Ataturk from the Law. The previous law states that at least these institutions were founded by Ataturk, which is not in AKP's ordinance of the law. According to the ruling, the Turkish Language Institution's Presidency is a private budget based on the High Institution and a public corporate entity that operates in the field of scientific services and activities. It's made up of the president, the vice president, and the science board. Its centre is in Ankara. It will have been established by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip. It would have been much better if you had written it, my dear friends. There's a similar definition for the Turkish Historical Society.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0277par0103	Respect the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0104	Mr. Prime Minister, I apologize. So you built a Turkish Language Foundation and a Turkish Historical Society without Ataturk, and you did it. Is it possible to understand that, to accept that? Dear lawmakers, both institutions have no Ataturk definitions, but Ataturk is in one place. Where does it take place? It's in the money business. The income of the institutions is counted, and it is said that they come from the will of Ataturk. They wrote it there. You will erase the name of Ataturk, but you will continue to receive income from the will of Ataturk. The coupgers did it, and the AKP continues its mentality. This attitude has no legal validity either. It's a clear sign that the mindset of the coupters continues. These institutions are no longer the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society. As a lawyer for thirty-nine years, the law and the will of the people cannot be changed by decrees. Now, if a law were to come out of here, if we did my name, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I would be the Prime Minister. Can I say that? Mr. Bulent Arinc, I'm dismissing you. If I say so, will he get out of here? Mr. Arinc says in the Plan and Budget Commission that the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Foundation will be given a provision from the Bank of Business: "The People's Party of the Republic has been court-ordered because they do not want to give it." I'd like to ask Mr. Arinc again if someone would go and ask for his name to be corrected as Recep Tayyip Erdogan in court, and the court would agree to it, would he be able to come and be Prime Minister here? So how do you keep giving them Mustafa Kemal's money by raising two associations to become a public institution?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0278par0110	You have removed the picture of Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0111	Dear friends, these institutions, which are formed under the law, are no longer the associations established by Ataturk. You will go one step further than the coupters, and you will wipe out the name of Ataturk (Ataturk) from both institutions, and you will remove the testimony that these institutions were founded by Ataturk, but you will continue to inherit the inheritance of Ataturk. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0278par0112	You have removed the picture of Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0113	No one has the right to change someone else's will, even if it's by court order. The courts have no jurisdiction, and the Grand National Assembly has no authority. The Grand National Assembly does everything, they say a man can't make a woman, but they can't change a will, my dear friends. Now, about the budget...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0278par0115	You have removed the picture of Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0116	As we look at the budget, we see that 13 million, 825,000 liras have been earmarked for the Turkish Language Foundation, and 6,811,000 euros for the Turkish Historical Institution. What is the amount of income that comes from the heritage of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to both institutions? According to the amount reported by Mr. Bkent Arinc, he reported only to the Turkish Language Foundation, the business bank's income is 82m,657,000 lira. The total amount is around 165 million TL, if it is considered to be an equal amount, as well as a reduction to the Turkish Historical Association. Where would such a large amount be spent? We don't know that, and we don't know if the entire amount was spent. Ataturk allocated this income to the Treasury to create two associations that were scorched with his own oil, while we are facing two institutions that are burdened with the budget. In addition to the funds from the institution's general budget, we have to monitor that Ataturk had been forced out of his will to use the revenues efficiently and efficiently, but no information has been given by the government as the Grand National Assembly. Dear MPs, the will is the final document of anyone's request. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is a citizen of Beyoğlu 6. The Republican People's Party has given the Republican People's Party the management of its shares in the Business Bank, and has given its income to the two institutions. CHP has four board members in the 11-member administration of the Business Bank.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0278par0118	Way to go!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0119	However, a penny of the income of these shares is not given to CHP. (HPP) The Supreme Ataturk CHP has appointed the CHP as its manager, protector, Turkish Language Foundation and Turkish Historical Association as its recipients. The Republican People's Party does not receive a penny from the Bank of Business.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0278par0120	You took a picture of Ataturk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's put an end to a crime of law. The two communities established today in the will of Ataturk are two organisations established according to the rules of private law. The income provided by the will is two public...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0279par0123	Mr. Acar, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0276par0124	...is given to his office. It has no place in civil law. Mustafa Kemal is in violation of his will. Come on, let's get rid of this shame, and we're gonna make it right, support him, eliminate this legal freak of nature. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0279par0127	Thank you, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0280par0128	You have removed the picture of Ataturk, from Turkish currency. What are you talking about? Go up there, talk to him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0279par0130	Congressmans, it is now the first speaker of the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr. Fair Wolf. Here you go, Mr. Wolf. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budgets of the RTÜK, Press-Journal and Information General Directorate. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a gentleman's agreement with the esteemed MPs at this hour we're going to talk to the press. Please don't pick on me because I'm going to read you a news bulletin. Since it's about the press, I'll share a news bulletin with you. If you can't pick on the TV, don't pick on the radio, don't pick on me, just give me 15 minutes, please. But first of all, I'd like to send green onions to my fellow journalists in prison from the Capitol TV screen, and I know their cigarettes smell like carnations. But they need to know...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0282par0137	It's not spring yet, it can't smell like carnations.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0138	Yes, spring hasn't come, it's still winter. To create that spring, to bring that spring in our hands, we can bring that spring; if we can show that determination, that courage, that insistence, we can bring spring to this country; I share those feelings with you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0283par0139	Stand up to the PKK.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0140	I share with you the first article: first news, freedom of the press. Article 3 of the Press Law states that the press is free. See, friends, we're just talking about a right on paper. The press isn't free in this country. Look, the same Press Law... I will never mention the name of the government in this evening's speech in June 2004, but in June 2004, I will remind you of the 25th Article of the Press Law, which was approved by this Assembly in June 2004, it says: The press broadcast activity in this country -- in particular it says in terms of the written press -- can not be contrary to the 174th Article of the Constitution, which is one. The press coverage in this country says that the Anti-Terror Law cannot violate Article 7 of the Law. What do these two things mean? These two articles mean banning Kurdish language, particularly Article 174 of the Constitution. If you forbid a language's alphabet, its symbols, you forbid that language. If you force a language to speak and write in the alphabet of another language, you will ban it. The Press Act, which you issued in June 2004, officially banned Kurdish. If Kurdish poetry can still be published in this country, it is known that prosecutors are out of duty, not performing their duties because even a Kurdish poem can't be published in this country according to your law. I'm here with you as a friend who was sentenced to this law during a time when I was dealing with prosecutors in Diyarbakir. I remind you: please stop judging me for an article I wrote in the newspaper Azadia Welat, the entire paper is against the law, it's against the law, it's against the law, it's forbidden. Why don't you close the paper? I share with you what the prosecutor told me, and it's not slander at all: he'll get his turn. Now the conjunctural is not suitable for him. He said. When will the conjunctural be available? I sort of worked on it last night, and I think there's someone trying to make that conjunctive step by step. Dear friends, the only daily Kurdish newspaper published in this country is the newspaper Azadiya Welat. The Foreign Minister of this country -- which is now our President -- Mr. Abdullah Gul, on his way to international relations, put the daily Azadiya Welat in front of people on their way to talks, put them in front of people in diplomatic relations, see, you say that the Kurds have no rights. But the newspapers are published in Turkey, and this newspaper is published in Turkey. This newspaper has been arrested nine times in the last four years. Do you know how many years this newspaper's editors have been sentenced to this country's courts today? I'm telling you the final punishments, not the ongoing punishments, over 500 years. A friend of mine, a colleague of mine, has now been sentenced to a hundred sixty-six-and-a-half years in prison, because of this Law, but still there is freedom of the press in this country. If you say so, there is not much to be said. The Department of Justice says that the number of appeals in this country is 90 on the condition that they be prosecuted according to Article 301. None of this has been allowed. What have you done for journalists who have been tried according to the second draft of Article 7 of the Anti-Terror Law? He's making a statement here, they're terrorists. They call them terrorists. They say, "Indeed, it is a sin, and we are the children of Kerbala. It is a sin, and it is a sin." They're all journalists, and I'm more honored to be friends with them, and I'm going to carry that honor all the time. Yeah, we never had a yellow press card. I've also been on the website of the Press Information General Directorate. None of this goes on here, their names don't go on as newspapers, they don't go on as agencies, they don't go on as agencies, but those crimes we took at DGM, those indictments are our honorary medals to give to our children, our children, so you should know that. Dear friends, I will continue to speak of the Anti-Terror Law. Every time word is opened, the opposition of power talks about separatism, separatism, and there's no other word for it, it's going to be talked about the Kurdish problem. Look, my friends, I want to answer this matter in the words of Moses Anter, the author of this book. You know what Musa Anter says? The Kurds are not stupid enough to leave Antalya. Yes, the Kurds, the Istanbul, the İzmir, their ancestors in Çanakkale have shed blood there, not so stupid as to abandon you, they are smart enough to own them. Give up this separatism label, there's no bread for you. In this country, separatism is to exclude a people if there is one, to deny the language of a people by the laws I just spoke. Look, guys, no state official television anywhere in the world is a pirate broadcaster, it's in our country. TRT broadcasts piracy in this country with TRT 6 and is a broadcaster with no legal infrastructure. As a Kurd, as a Kurdish journalist, as a Kurdish writer, I'm telling you this, it's pirate publishing because it's not a policy job.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0284par0150	It's in the law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0151	It has nothing to do with the law. This regulation has been changed three times in four years. A general manager, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, all right, the RTÜK can ignore this regulation, and the TRT 6 that you took out, the one you boasted about, which I insist, especially I say, because I don't think the word of the non-Kurdish person can be Kurdish, okay? The essence of the spirit is Turkish. And don't get caught up in that. That's not true.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0285par0152	What will the soul be like?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0153	I'll keep going, it's just the first-stage news, so I'm gonna keep going, guys. Under regulations, it is a television channel established under RTÜK regulations, TRT 6 and is currently broadcasting piracy in the current situation. This council must be saved from this disgrace.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0286par0155	But are you uncomfortable with it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0156	I'm not comfortable with a TV in this country broadcasting piracy on public television. Yeah, I'm uncomfortable. Let's set up the legal infrastructure together. Let's set up the legal infrastructure. Why shouldn't this TV be based on legal infrastructure? Don't let it go against the law? Why are you avoiding this? You have a reason to avoid the law, to avoid the Kurdish concept, to avoid saying Kurdish. Who are you going to tell this story to? I'll continue. There used to be a military custody issue, and the one you've been working on a lot. Yes, in this country, the press has been constantly praised, someone has been constantly seeking to design televisions, newspapers, but instead of the old one's military custody, it's now civilian political custody. I'll give you an example, folks, I'm not going to go too far back. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to read you a story, or rather, sum it up, because I don't have a lot of time. This is news from agencies on November 23, 2011. I'll give you the information first, then I'll share the source with you, which means the journalists don't have to reveal the source, but I will. At this point, I'm free to explain. Now he says that today, Istanbul police have served journalists three news reports on ACK operations. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0287par0161	What's the date on the story?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0162	November 23, 2011. The statement taken by tweezers from the interview notes of PKK Leader Abdullah Ocalan (PK) increased the attack as the group issued instructions from his founder (KKK) through the prison. (ÇT/TK) (ÇT/TK) This report was served to journalists from Istanbul Police on 23 November 2011. It was served to regular journalists, but by mistake, it also went to the e-mail address of another journalist they didn't want to serve, and it also went to the e-mail address. The news was broadcast on television, in agencies, on November 23rd. I share with you the headlines of November 24th, just like these statements here: letters from Apo to Assad. It's in the statement, because the police have written, the title, the spot, the material to use, it's all accounted for. One, the Zaman daily: the order of chaos from the Times: to stir up tens of thousands of CKs. Here, it's in the news, Time Journal. Akit daily: ίApo ordered it, applied it to BDP. • These headlines are in the news, the day before. I mean, they didn't even look at it. I mean, they didn't even say that the shame would come on the day after tomorrow. Star daily: ▪KCK is an armed organization. (ÇT/TK) Here are the death instructions, Ocalan: KCK is an armed illegal organization. These are the instructions. This is also in the news the day before. I'll tell you, I'll keep going. The new Dawn newspaper: the school boycott is written in the news. There were more, there were a lot of newspapers.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0288par0170	You've done your homework.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0171	We've done our homework, yes. You didn't work here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0288par0172	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0173	It's all there. However, the press is free in this country. There is no guardianship over the press. If you say there is no friend, there is no friendly press. If you say so, even crows will laugh at you, even crows will laugh at you. Therefore, media coverage in this country has never been freed from the sovereignty of the ruling authorities, from its rights. Yeah, it's not just the government's problem. As a journalist for 20 years, I've had this problem all the time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0289par0174	We've been persecuted too.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0175	You're right, actually, I'd like to finish talking about that. I really, really want to. Hey, Parliament, do you know what a AKP MP calls me on this front row line? Let's get him on the record like this. It says: "You'll live longer."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0289par0177	No, no, no, we've been through a lot, too. I said.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0178	Anyway, that's how I understood it. Then I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0290par0179	Let's not talk mutually, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0180	Then I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0290par0181	Please address the House.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0182	But the shame is on all of us. We need to get rid of these shames.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0291par0183	No, fix it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0184	Okay, I fixed it, I fixed it. Well, then I'm sorry I took it that way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, it's a shame. We all need to get rid of this shame.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0292par0187	Mr. Wolf, your time is up, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0281par0189	I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0292par0191	The next speaker is Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0293par0195	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Foundation General Directorate. Before we begin with my words, I wish our Prime Minister an immediate recovery, and I salute you all. The foundation, technically referred to as a foundation of property, has been described in the Turkish Civil Law as property and communities with a corporate personality, which are based on the specificity of real and legal individuals with sufficient property and rights to a specific and continuous purpose. The ancient foundations were functionally widespread during the Seljukian era, and the Ottomans reached their peak during the Ottoman period. As a form of reducing the income difference between the rich and the poor, the foundations play an important role in the development of society. In this sense, foundations can be understood as policies and non-profit institutions that aim to eliminate poverty in general, transfer money from rich to poor, and increase vertical, social economic activity. The most important institution in the Islamic world and in particular in Ottoman territory was the foundation that served these purposes. Because most of the spending on health and education, the most important elements of human capital, was provided by the foundations. Indeed, along with schools, universities, hospitals, and soup kitchens throughout Islamic history, the foundations have organized and funded numerous other services that contribute to economic development. In addition to Muslim foundations in the Ottoman era, there were many parish foundations, and because of the establishment of these foundations, they had no foundation or foundation. Although there were some problems in implementing the foundations at this time, the rights granted to non-Muslims were far superior and far more advanced in Europe than in non-Christian practices. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have gained minority status in national law along with the Turkish non-Muslim Treaty of Lausanne. The Lausanne Treaty gives non-Muslim citizens the right to establish and govern their own charity, religious and social institutions. However, after the Civil Law of 1926, savings and a series of laws and practices, the rights given in Lausanne have been dissolved, subject to various exceptions, restrictions and conditions, and the rights given have often been rendered inconsequential. I'd like to remind you of an illegal practice known as the 1936 declaration. Under this application, non-Muslim foundations have been systematically confiscated. These practices, which have been ratified by the Supreme Court, have unfortunately pushed minorities out of the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. They lost a great deal of income when the parish foundations were taken away from them their legally acquired property, which was registered to them on the deed. This has caused minorities to have serious problems with living their own culture. As a natural result of this situation, minorities, one of Turkey's greatest riches, have suffered serious population losses every year, and many of our citizens have had to leave their homes and migrate to European countries. Mr. President, under the influence of the recent trial of minority foundations in the European Court of Human Rights in recent years, regulations on minority foundations during the previous coalition administration in 2002 and in 2004, 2008 and 2011 are positive. These arrangements, viewed as steps forward in solving the problems of minorities and their foundations, are appreciated among minority and faith groups, but these positive steps are quick to express that they are not sufficient to solve the problems of minority foundations. In addition to the extradition of the foundations taken into the court, the foundations adopted before the execution of this Law have been granted legal legitimacy. The new law has not provided any regulations for the return of the administration of the parish foundation and its relocations to the new foundation status. In addition, no new legislation has been introduced to prevent congregation trusts from being taken into office because there are no more congregations. This is the case in the decree issued in 2011. In Article 5 of the same Law in 2008, foreigners can establish a new foundation in Turkey based on legal and verb reciprocity. In the final joke of the 101st article of the Civil Law, there is no foundation to support a certain race or member of the congregation. The principles of the Constitution and the basic principles of the Constitution, against law, morality, national unity and national interests, or to support members of a certain race or congregation, can not be established. When the decree is taken into consideration, the foundation of the new congregation has been blocked. Mr. President, the valuable MPs, the 11th interim clause, which was published in the Official Gazette on August 27, 2011, came into effect and was added to Foundations Act 5737 in 2008, with a decree issued under the law. After reviewing the draft ruling text, seen as a positive attitude of political will to meet some requirements, it turns out that the arrangement provides some positive changes, but does not provide a radical solution to existing problems, but does not include the extradition of many seized properties. The amendment continues to be illegal, first registered in the 1936 Statement and limited in the return of property, prepared as a property statement and then limiting the wealth of the community's foundations. The statement also provides some restrictions on the rights to non-verbal property by maintaining the content that has been violated and placed in an illegal form. Under the 1936 declaration, it does not foresee restitution of property returned to its former owner. In accordance with the law-ordered decree, it is also an important flaw in the exclusion of publicisation. Because publicisations in Turkey do not sit on a rightful basis. Since the decree under the law stipulates that the cemetery will be registered, the graveyards in this situation are in danger of not being registered in the name of the foundations. In the same way, it is not sufficient to say that they will not be moved under the municipality and the municipality's private administration. Because there's a lot of illegal practices on property registered to law enforcement agencies. Mr. President, valued lawmakers; minority and faith groups in Turkey have many problems, and the state must find an urgent solution to these problems. The foundations of the Alevis and their possessions have been seized. Many places of worship today are owned by the General Directorate of the Foundations. Our citizens of Alevi have to rent places of worship at exorbitant prices. In the European Union progress reports, the issue of minorities and belief groups is often on the agenda. According to the Commission report, Turkey's approach to minority rights remains restrictive. Although Turkey has signed the Framework Charter for the Protection of National Minorities, there are no mechanisms or specific organs in our country that will fight racism, foreign hostility, anti-Semitism and intolerance. According to the European Union's 2011 Progress Report, full respect for language, culture and basic rights and protection of them are not yet in line with European standards. Mr. President, I'd like to say, in closing my remarks, that we care about all these positive legal changes that have been made, and we value them, but our wish is that such changes and regulations be extended and continued, and that such problems are completely removed from the agenda. That's what suits a country that claims to be a great state. I wish you all the best of the 2012 budget for our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0294par0211	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The last speaker of the Peace and Democracy Group is Mr. Property One, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Onete.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0295par0215	Mr. President, I have pledged to share our views on the budgets of Ataturk Culture Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society for 2012 on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the institutions I mentioned above are constitutional institutions with a public legal personality of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute. The name of the institution established in the 1930s has changed over time, and its principles and principles are based on the scientific deniability of all foreign and separatist currents that will be used against these values as a uniting force in the Ataturc principle and inclusion of cultural, language and history. Yes, lawmakers, the institution is functioning in accordance with institutional philosophy, but there is no doubt about whether these principles are in accordance with the universal laws of science and Turkey's social, historical reality. It's no exaggeration to say that these institutions are some of the living institutions of the monotheistic mentality that are the source of our suffering as a country right now. Congressmans, these institutions, in fact, are a product of the understanding that this country is made up of one race, that another ethnic group in this country does not need to live up to its own language and culture, that it is not valued. It is a project by the Advent and Terakkiists to promote and embrace the nationalist understanding that they developed in the republical period. It is the Turkish world's insistence that all civilizations around the world are influenced by Turks, who view Turkish and Turkish language as superior to all the nations and languages of the world. It is the institutions that maintain the insistence that the word is not an exaggeration. He's put all the mean racist definitions into textbooks, wrote the history of Turkey and the world in a way that has nothing to do with this racist and real history, and he's blocked them for questioning. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been the carriers of the formalized rhetoric of textbooks. Militarian, sexist rhetoric has made it a priority target to shape individual and society. Also, these books provide how political and social order can be formed. According to these books, all countries and peoples are enemies, all minorities living in the country are potentially dangerous. Every people who have been victimized throughout history, including the Republic of Turkey, have always been shown guilty by the ethnic group, traitors, forced to emigrate, displaced, and massacred. In this country, citizens, Kurds, Armenians, and all other nations have been known to be enemies, trying to divide the state. These ideology and paradigms are persistently defended by parties outside the BDP, which are still in parliament. The official ideology, which is blessed and everyone is forced to comply, has found everything the state has done right and necessary. It is also responsible for the public's ignorance of its reality today, which is too divine to criticize the state. This notion, which prohibits thinking, research, questioning, also allows for massacres, assimilation, and depriving of the most human rights. The thesis, which is based on official ideology, does not allow anyone to live but Turk. According to this understanding, everyone in this country is Turkish. Not even over 25 million Kurdish people are mentioned today, let alone other ethnic groups. The Republic's history has shown that from the founding of the republic to the present day, every struggle the Kurds have fought to reclaim their rights has been fabricated as plans to divide the country. The ancient people of this geography, and the Kurds with thousands of years of history, are members of a community that has only been mentioned in one line, seen as harmful and destroyed. At first glance, this information, seen as funny, is actually the basis of the tragedies brought to the Kurds. Those responsible for the injustice, oppression, and persecution the Kurds face today are the ones who distort history in this way. These people, who have been massacred many times, have been ignored even today because of this skullist understanding of official history. No document on the history, literature, language, music of Kurds is available on behalf of Kurds in the sources of the Turkish Language and History Foundation. Today, no textbook mentions the massacres of Zilan, Agiri. Dear lawmakers, these institutions are political institutions. The Turkish Historical Society has no scientific concerns, even though they say they're doing scientific work. The budget for this non-scientific, non-realized institution should now be divided into writing a new history, telling the true places of other elements living in this country in history, rewriting textbooks. Besides Turkish history, books must be renovated by accepting Kurdish history and the existence of all other ethnic groups in this country. We say textbooks should be written by objective measurements, not by the fabrication of the perfect past of a clear glorious history, sitting behind a desk like that. The book must cease to show that it is the desire to replace the minorities, the enemies, everyone Turkish, the people's rights demands to divide the country, to tear it apart. There is a need for reliable history books that describe the Ottoman era, the Republic era, in every way. If Turkish history continues to be described as in textbooks today, it would be very difficult to accept and introduce the existence of the other if the consciousness of history is created on this basis. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have served the official ideology that I have briefly stated above by the Turkish Language Foundation so far. There is not a word in the Turkish Language Association dictionary that says it was obtained from Kurdish. But as a sociological reality of living together for centuries, the language and culture of these peoples have been influenced by each other. As a result of this situation, although there were hundreds of words from Kurdish to Turkish language, the Turkish Language Association in its dictionaries either expressed that these words were of Persian origin or were used as the words used in the eastern and southeast mouth. However, if a project of the Turkish Language Foundation -- which I find very important -- comes to life based on neutral and scientific facts -- I would like to share with you a joyful aspect of the work: the Turkish Language Agency will complete the etymological study of Turkish words in 2013. Then it will be considered a real work, if other language-based words assimilated in Kurdish and Turkey are specified. Today, the budget -- as every term -- is earmarked for all of these institutions. As long as it's scientific and neutral, we're saying it's perfectly normal to part. Dear lawmakers, this institution operates the language studies of only one people living in this country, but if there is an objective census of people without pressure, without fear of other people, it will be revealed that the population of Kurds and other peoples as well exists. And how will these people learn their language, just by talking? We know that in order for a language to live scientifically, but only in educational language, otherwise, according to official statistics, many of the 28 languages spoken in Turkey today will inevitably be destroyed within the next 20 to 20 years. He made them forget the language of millions of Kurds and other peoples by their official ideology policies. Turkish language has been tried to develop, other languages have been forgotten. Now, I ask you, does it require that one language be glorified and the other be devalued? Can this be kept quiet? Isn't that an obvious sign of inequality? Today, even here, there are some of us who don't see Kurdish as a language. In the courts, people cannot defend themselves in their own native language, and in the courts, this language is considered unknown or unintelligible. The immediate disparagement of this inequality must be earmarked from the budget to work for Kurdish to become the language of education. In addition to being considered Kurdish language as the language of education, part of the funds for these institutions should be split for Kurdish studies as well as the most numerous people, and it should be used to ensure that the languages of all the peoples that we have always boasted and talked about as our country's wealth do not be destroyed. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers are being used today in India, 20 in Switzerland, 4 in Belgium, 3 in Belgium, 4 in Austria, and more than two in dozens of countries that I can't count, and more than three official languages are used in Turkey and Romania as regional languages. We see that more than one official language has never divided a country. It doesn't divide us, it shouldn't be feared. Because the more disposable and worthless you are, the more trouble you create around you. We hope and hope that this new constitution in our country will provide a life on the basis of equal citizenship, with arrangements to provide freedom and security for languages and cultures. In view of the fact that other ethnic groups living in this country are citizens of this country and pay all kinds of taxes to the state, we have to accept that they also have a share in this budget. After all these evaluations, we recommend that the name of this institution be changed to Anatolian and Mesopotamian Language, Research Agency for History and Cultures. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit04spe0296par0238	Thank you, Mr. Onete. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on behalf of the groups, the speeches are completed here. I'm gonna take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0296par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume talks on the 2012 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Omar Faruk Öz is now in favor of Malatya MP. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0297par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the second round of budget talks. I hereby salute your high council. I wanted to have a different conversation, but I wanted to share some of the facts with you as the speakers before me spoke about the Foundation General Directorate budget. Now, I'd like to explain where the Foundation General Directorate has come from, one by one, in front of you MPs and public opinion. In 2002, the Foundation General Directorate's budget was $37m, while the 2012 budget was $394m.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0298par0012	It's 2012 Mr. Faruk, 2012, start here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0297par0013	I'm coming, I'm coming, I'm coming. A total of 46 artifacts were repaired between 1997 and 2002, while the number of artifacts now being repaired is 3.560. In return for the floor, the do-and-work, the restoration, the business-in-house... no work has been evaluated in such a way, but by 2011, 369 is considered non-moving. Again, 16 real estate has been evaluated with a do-and-do model. Again, 18 real estate has been assessed with restoration meat and business. What's in these? Kayseri Park Shopping Centre, Silk Business Centre, Army Business Centre, Gaziantep Now, I would like to point out in particular that again, in turn, in terms of Üsküdar and Başakşehir, the General Directorate of Foundations, which has had 740 apartments as a result of real estate assessments. Again, in large cities such as Samsun, Tokat, Amasya, Gaziantep, Kayseri, the Foundation's income has been increased by a large amount of real estate. Again, Bezmilalem Valide Sultan Foundation Gureba Hospital was mentioned. Bezmilalem Valide Sultan Güreba has been a university of education, and no real estate has been set in motion for anyone. There are now very important teams of professors with the most published publications in Turkey, and through these professors, poor poor people continue to be given bilabedel health care to the strange group. Now, on another subject: universities have been told about the land assigned to three or four universities. Yes, that's right, it is. Back in the days before us, foundation universities, dozens of foundation universities were given real estate in the same way, both national real estate and the Foundations General Directorate. In the same way, when I look at my constituency, there are 46 foundations of culture, 23 mosques were repaired during the AK PARTY administration. In particular, the restoration of 23 mosques has been completed during the AK PARTY administration. Now, my dear friends, I would like to point out that from 1926 to 1949, when the Republican People's Party was in power -- I want to draw your attention to this particular area -- a total of 6,552 historical artifacts were sold. 920 of them are mosques...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0299par0022	When?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0297par0023	Between 1926 and 1949, yes. ...1.846 mosques, 20 madrasa, 2 caravansaray; 191 tekke, zaviye; 62 shrines... shall I go on or on? Yes, total... then there's been a special effort to destroy the foundation in this country. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the president of the Republican People's Party, recently gave a good example about the liver-cat thing. You know, one day a citizen went home and took two pounds of liver home, and when he wanted to eat this liver three days later, his wife ate it well with his friends, by the way.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0300par0026	Nasreddin Hodja, Nasreddin Hodja.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0297par0027	Lady, cook that liver and let's eat it. What will she say to the teacher, she said, "This cat ate his liver. Bring the balance here." He brought the scale, so the cat weighs 2 kilos on the scale. She said, "If the cat ate the liver, where's the cat, where's the liver?"
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0301par0029	Tell that to the kids.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0297par0030	Now, if it's been served this much, if the budget of 37 million is up to 392 million, you have to stop and think. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute all of you with these thoughts and feelings, and wish you well in the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0302par0034	Mr. Oz, thank you, thank you. Congressmans, on behalf of the government, it's time for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Babacan. Here you go, Mr. Babacan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0303par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and wish you the best of the 2012 fiscal year budget law talks to our country and our nation. It has been a year of 2011 for the Radio and Television Oversight Council, which has carried out the mandate to organise and supervise radio and television broadcasts in our country. Law 6112, which took effect on 3 March 2011, included new definitions for the publishing sector, and legal infrastructure has been established for applications run voluntarily by broadcasters. As part of the calendar prepared with the new Law, we plan to move to digital publishing technology, which has high standards for visual and sound quality in many countries around the world in 2015. Once again, we have begun collecting annual use costs for the channels and frequencies used by broadcasters, along with the adoption of this Law. We also took a very important step in preventing competitive conditions and condensation in the field of publishing. In this scope, we have ruled that media service providers' annual total commercial communication revenue does not exceed 30 per cent of the sector's total commercial communication revenue. With the new law, political ads were released, so that before the June 12th elections, our political parties were able to use all kinds of ads intensively together. The decision to make the broadcast of political ads smoothly during the election period has shown that the decision was very good. The protective symbol system, known in public as the clever markings, has been made mandatory for publishers by the new law. This practice, launched in 2006, was carried out on the basis of volunteering by publishers, but at times, some publications found that the proper signs were not used. With the new law and regulations, intelligent signs will be properly implemented within their system. As always, the RTÜK continues to monitor and monitor the publications carefully. 110 national broadcasts and satellite broadcasts, 145 local television broadcasts, 80 radio broadcasts are recorded with a monitoring system set up at the upper council's headquarters in Ankara. Digital satellite broadcasting platforms are regularly monitored by experts in the broadcasts of about 25 publishing companies in the literature. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are one of the country's most radical institutions in the area of state information in the country and abroad, and the Office of Press-Journal and Information, which is the same age as our Supreme Assembly. The Editor-in-Chief of the Press and Information Office performs very important tasks for the public to reflect all developments outside the country on time and properly, for Turkey to be better introduced to the world, for local and foreign journalists to be more effective in monitoring developments within the country. In Turkey, on the other hand, the media sector has an important contribution to having a healthy structure with its services. As part of the news services of the Editor-in-Chief of the Press and Information Directorate, about 4,000 news reports are collected and processed every day in 18 languages. The Office of Press and Information has made the existing equipment and systems compatible with the needs of the age. As part of the State Information System Project, four important radios and 40 foreign television channels broadcast every day from the world's leading broadcasters are recorded and decoded. In addition, three local, 25 foreign news agencies are constantly monitored, a website covered by 250 internet news sites and the first editions of more than 1,700 newspapers from 92 countries is monitored daily. Thus, we have the opportunity to be constantly informed of a wider geography. In parallel with Turkey's growing role and importance in both economic and foreign policy and energy, there has also been a significant increase in the number of foreign media members who have been established and temporarily deployed. In the 2000s, only about 30 to 40 resident foreign media members were found in our country, while in 2011 the number reached 287. On the other hand, the number of journalists who came and were welcomed with their own means reached 878, in the first nine months of 2011. The Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information also publishes various publications for the domestic and external public. Most importantly, it is published in 11 languages, including English, French, German, Arabic, Persian, Russian, Japanese, Chinese and Portuguese. Dear lawmakers, the foundations are an important part of our cultural fabric, our history, and a symbol of our charity. Our foundation, founded thousands of years ago and without a manager, is now able to operate through our General Directorate of Foundations channel. The General Directorate of Foundations performs its duties, such as 41,800 outlets, 284 multiples, 4,594 new and 162 parishes with jobs and procedures, maintenance, repair and survival of the institutional cultural assets. Our goal is to not leave a single foundation in our country without detection, registration, and projects. For this, the project and repairs of 3,600 works have been completed since 2003. In the coming period, especially repairs to our former projects will be a priority, and they will continue. In order to meet the conditions of charity in the Vachfieds, the Foundation's General Office delivers dry food packets of fifteen pens each month to the address of the needy families in an 80-city centre. To reduce the suffering of our citizens affected by the earthquake in and around Van in October, 10,000 dry food packs and clothing supplies were delivered by our General Directorate of Foundations. It is a monthly contract for needy disabled and orphaned children who are not covered by the Ministry of Social Security, who have no real estate or real estate to support, who have lost their workforce by over 40 per cent. Again, students are granted scholarships according to studies at the first and middle schools of the Ministry of National Education. The General Directorate of Foundations has implemented the Geographical Information System Project to produce efficient projects on its flowing properties. With this project, any information and documents regarding the housing of the General Directorate of Foundations throughout our country have been electronically introduced. In addition, all information from property records to current ways of use, from satellite images of the immovables to cadastral plans has been processed into the system. All documents, such as the foundation of the foundation, the virtue, the wisdom, the decree, are very important elements that form the archive of the foundation civilization. The historical work under the Quad Archive Management System Project, which includes scanning, translating, creating digital copies and protecting all these documents, has been completed as of 2011. As part of the project, ten million documents have been transferred into the numerical medium. The work of our General Directorate of Foundations in the field of culture is not limited to the borders of our country. Documents, information and transcripts on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foundations have been completed under protocol between the Foundations Directorate of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the General Directorate of Foundations. However, with other Balkan countries, I would like to stress from here specifically that the preparation of joint work on Crimea is ongoing. Mr. President, the esteemed members of the Grand Assembly, one of the most important activities of the constitutional institution, the Ataturk Cultural Language and History Institute, in 2011, was the adoption of the Decision of the Ataturk Cultural and Historical Higher Institution, which would make the institution more functional. With this legal arrangement, these gaps in the existing Law No. 2876 can be removed. The Ataturk Institute of Language and History has co-operated with institutions related to universities, and has designed a system that will direct graduate and doctorate students to joint research on priority issues and thus establish online databases. The Ataturk Institute, which will operate this system, has also been upgraded to international and international scholarship directives. In connection with the scholarship project, the Higher Institution continues its efforts to establish information plants with the project to prepare related databases for the collection of data collected by research groups. This system will allow research groups from graduate and PhD students to conduct scientific research online. With this system to be developed year-by-year, the Institution will have a rich information bank that it can offer without interruption from its website, as hundreds of scientific, original books can be developed in six or seven years. Mr. President, the Ataturk Research Center, founded in 1983, is a scientific research institution, as you know. The centre is conducting research into the understanding, explanation, of the Ataturcian thinking, the Ataturk principles and the strokes, and all elements of the organisation and development process of the Republic of Turkey. However, he is trying to contribute to the formation of national policies, based on scientific data from all the activities he has conducted. In 2011, nine research projects were conducted, but other than that, research reports were submitted by public institutions and organisations to the relevant people. The centre held 14 training programmes, 6 illumination conferences, 2 workshops and 1 international meeting on its objectives and tasks in late November 2011. The international meeting on the 400th Anniversary of the Birth of Evliya Çelebi (Ezra) has also been supported as part of the 79th Language Day events. The 7th International Ataturk Congress, attended by a total of 222 foreign and domestic scientists from 23 countries, was organised in Macedonia. The project, which began in previous years as part of scientific research activity, will continue in 2012. The project will also begin to translate different languages of 16 pieces selected from the central publications so that Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his works can be introduced to the world. The study of the Ataturk Encyclopedia will be completed and published in 2012. The book will be published as the first stage in the study of the National Fighting History documentary, and talks will be held with the TRT to make it a documentary. As part of scientific events, scientific meetings will be held within the country and in the interest of relevant Balkan countries in co-operation with various institutions and organisations on the grounds of the 100th anniversary of the Balkan wars. International meetings will be held in co-operation with the University of Ege on the 90th anniversary of the rescue of Izmir (Izmir) from enemy occupation. Mr. President, the esteemed members of the Grand Assembly, the Ataturk Cultural Centre, is conducting its activities with the awareness of its responsibility to investigate and transfer our great cultural heritage to future generations to all elements of Turkish culture. The centre carried out 542 broadcasts from its establishment to the end of 2010. The Turkish World Common Literature Project will also begin its second revised edition starting in 2012. The first part, including the Ataturk era, was completed in 2010 and published as three volumes. The Eurasia's Project on Borders and Reconstructioned Identitys, which will be put under pressure to be completed by the end of 2011, as well as the Ottoman Science Project, which was completed in 2010, and the first volume of the project was published in 2011. The Ataturk Cultural Centre also considers the creation of oral cultural historical studies and a rich archive on the history of writing. For this purpose, short documentaries are being prepared about the 2007 Project Live Witnesses of Turkish Culture, and the elite scientists and art men who contributed on a national and international level to the promotion of Turkish culture. The centre held six national, four international, 10 scientific meetings in 2011, co-operation with universities. Mr. President, the Turkish Language Foundation, which has done scientific research on the Turkish language, has provided new words and terms for the existence of our language, continues its work on spreading, developing, enriching and recurring Turkish language. In 2011, the Turkish Language Foundation published 32 books and 16 magazines in 11 months. We predict that the total number of books published this year will reach 104. At the end of November 2011, the Turkish Language Foundation held 23 scientific meetings, including nine hundred national and 14 internationally, with the participation of nearly 1,000 local and foreign scientists. In addition, it will be presented with a joint documentary by Çelebi, the Turkish Language Foundation and the TRT. The documentary is intended to be released at the end of this month, and the documentary will also be voiced in English. In 2011, the Turkish Language Association opened the Reverse-Sword Dictionary in Turkish to access. The search engine, which has the ability to find every word requested in the entire text, was also used last month. Writing in the Turkish Language Institute library opened up to researchers online at the anniversary ceremony this year. Researchers from all over the world are now able to access the writing of Turkish language in full text. Recently, a virtual Turkish language library will be set up at any time in the network as Turkish Language Foundation publications, along with rare editions, open to access from the website. In 2011, the Turkish Language Agency granted a scholarship to 195 students who were studying in Turkish language and graduate degrees, while on a grad degree level, 27 students who would study the issues set by the Turkish Language Foundation began to receive master's and PhD scholarships. The publication of the most popularly requested dictionaries, such as the Great Turkish Dictionary, the Proverbs and the Dictionary of Words, will be concluded in 2012. The Turkish Language Institute, which will continue its scientific activities in 2012, with 40 books and virtual publications on Turkish language; the creation of the Turkish sign language system; the drafting of its dictionary and grammar; the foreign education software, the conversion of different cultures into a variety of basic ideas and works of science in 2012. In addition to audio science research, construction of the audio information laboratory, which will also be used for video recordings in the project on Turkish sign language, will be completed next year. The Turkish Language Foundation will also perform the 7th edition of the International Turkish Language Convention, organised every four years on September 24-28 2012. The Turkish Language Foundation will hold 33 national and international meetings as part of the strategic plan, as part of the 2012 tracking design. Documentaries on the development stages of Turkish language will also be prepared as part of the 80th anniversary celebrations. It will be continued next year and will be granted a total of 215 scholarships. In addition, 10 post-doctoral research scholarships have been applied since 2012 for the less-researched primary issues of Turkish language within the new scholarship programme. Mr. President, the Turkish Historical Society has been founded by Ataturk personally to investigate the true place of the Turks in the history of the world, based on documents of what they have served in civilization. The institution has continued its work on Turkish history and Turkey's history and has collected its publications in 31 series. Since 2009, new sequences have been created, and the publications have been assembled under 11 main sequences. Since the beginning, more than 1,500 articles, including magazines, have been published. Again, some issues related to Turkish history have also been transformed into more large populations, especially educational institutions, young people and CDs for public appearances. The first is the Canakkale 1915 CD. The other is the Ottoman History CD. From January to December 2011, the agency published 42 new publications, 28 similar editions, 5 magazines via service in its own printing press. The Turkish Historical Society has held 16 Turkish historical congresses so far. Apart from the four-year congresses, the Institute held scientific meetings, such as various conferences, symposium, panels, and discussed the issues of Turkish history with original declarations. In 2011, nine scientific meetings were held or supported. The institution supported about 20-25 archaeological excavations each year. In 2011, 48 decision-making and financial support were issued for the archaeological dig. The institution provides free scholarships to graduate students, PhDs, and post-doctoral researchers, and the number of them increases every year. Nine of the long-term projects presented in previous years have been completed, and seven projects have been published as books. The Turkish Institute of History library, the largest residency library in our country in history and archeology, is open to researchers and university students who prepare fast. About 200,000 volumes were provided to the library, with books, gifts, with our publications, exchanges and purchases. Under the 2012 budget and Strategic Plan, 50 licenses, 20 Masters, 20 Ph.D.s and 5 after-doctoral research grants are planned each year. As part of the Strategic Plan, 53 excavations and surface research were also planned in 2012. In the framework of the institution's Strategic Plan 2012-2016, 50 new publications, including 20 new works of research, 10 translations, 10 sources, 5 symposiums and congress, five works, are intended to be published each year, 3 points from Belleten magazine, 2 issues from Höyük magazine in 2012; 5 books from a popular history magazine, based on research conducted or conducted by the Foundation, are intended to be published in 2012. It has been offered to the Ministry of Development in 2012 in an effort to receive software with the help of new technologies to implement the management of materials in the Turkish History Library, with capital costs, and to extend their licenses and provide further support. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a few more points to answer some of the issues mentioned by the speakers before me and some of the questions they've asked. The Turkish Radio and Television Foundation can also broadcast in other languages and dialects other than Turkish, which are included in the last joke of Article 254 of Article 21. It is based on its decree that TRT6 is broadcast in Kurdish and is currently under its authority from Turkey. Such a channel does not need to be allowed to be allowed from RTÜK. Thus, TRT 6 is a channel established in a legitimate framework and broadcasts within the framework of a law. There has been a statement in previous talks that complaints to RTÜK have shown that the Foundation is not working. The RTÜK Communication Centre received 64,500 notifications during the nine months of 2010, while in the first nine months of 2011, the total number of notifications was 56,322, and the audience reports were reduced by 13 per cent compared to the same period last year. In 2010, the total rate of notifications on the series dropped from 51 per cent to 35 per cent during the first nine months of 2011. Thus, there have been significant reductions in the share of the series in the institution's notifications and in these notifications, compared to 2010 in 2011. Another speaker claimed that during the June 12th elections, RTÜK had lost his neutrality, saying that the National Channel 1 had been applied 25 times and 36 times to Public TV. You know, during election times, these applications and decisions are made by the YSK, not by RTÜK. Seven expert reports have been issued for the public TV broadcaster on election season broadcasts, which have been sent by the Supreme Council to the YSK, while the YSK has issued a one-time warning to the organisation and 36-time stop-the- program. Seven expert reports have been issued for the national 1 TV broadcaster, which have been sent by the Supreme Council to the YSK, while the YSK has given the agency a one-time warning and 25-time stopper. Since RSC decisions must be doubled, the number of closures has also increased sharply. For example, at the same time, six reports of TGRT have been filed, and the program has been halted 25 times by the YSK. Five reports have been filed for White TV and TV today, and the YSK has suspended the program 16 times. During this period, the decision is made by the YSK, not by RTÜK, as I said. Thus, it has nothing to do with the neutrality of the RTÜK. Even though the TRT is controlled by the RTÜK, it controls only two channels and does not oversee other channels. Another claim, such as the RTRT, has been raised. The two news-weight channels of the TRT are constantly monitored. Other channels are thematic. These include TRT Children, TRT Music, TRT School, TRT Avaz -- which is intended abroad. TRT 1 and TRT News are routinely inspected, while others are inspected after complaint. There have been 243 complaints about TRT publications, but only 6 reports have been filed. There has been another expression, such as a speaker. There is no writing a report for each complaint. Because many complaints involve similar issues. For example, there have been thousands of complaints in the past period due to part of a series, but since they're all on the same subject, they've been made one report. Therefore, there is a proportion between the number of complaints and the number of reports that are not taken into account, and a statement is not true, and I would like to rephrase that this assessment is wrong here. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, another speaker, have mentioned the land assigned to private universities, foundation universities. You know, these lands are an allocation, and these lands are assigned to universities, to this nation, to our educational institutions that serve our young ones. Besides, you know the state universities that are founded are mainly based on government land again. Therefore, there is nothing more natural in Turkey than the establishment of these lands on treasured land, whether it's a state or a foundation university. In Turkey, we, you know, have raised the number of universities above 150, and especially our foundation universities are rapidly developing and enriching our higher education system and bringing an element of competition. Now, there's a race between our universities for who will do better, better education, better teaching. Thus, the increase in our number of universities during this period is due to the fact that more of our young people have graduated from college. Now, 81 of Turkey's 81 provinces also have universities, and we have intensive work to build the buildings of the universities and to build the dorm buildings at universities, and very serious funds for this year's budget and for the next year's budget are reserved for this issue. One last thing I'd like to say is that it's about the extradition of property seized in the time of non-Muslim minorities. You know, even though they're a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, they're only non-Muslims, so there's been some wrong practices, some unjust practices, unfortunately, but if there's a strong state, a great country, an injustice, then sooner or later, it has to be fulfilled.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0304par0107	A strong state did the same in Greece, as it did in reciprocity.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0303par0108	This is Turkey's self-esteem that suits Turkey's size. The stronger Turkey gets, the more self-esteem it gets, the more comfortable it'll move on these issues. That's what it takes to be a great country, to be a great state. I wish the 2012 budget to all of our institutions, to all of our nine institutions. All of these institutions, one by one, really, are the institutions that hold the culture of our country, the history of our country, the heritage of our country, the institutions that form a bridge to our future with the past and with the past. All of these institutions, one by one, are doing very well in their field. Each of our institutions' 2012 budgets, you know, has been increased a little bit more than 2011 for the continuation of these fine works, these fine works. Again, I give you all my regards, my love, and I wish you the best of the budgets of our institutions for 2012.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0305par0112	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0306par0113	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, my position, the microphone.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0305par0114	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0306par0115	Thank you very much. Mr. President, according to Article 162 of the Constitution, budget talks are a very important area of our Parliament, which is done once a year, and the work of both our institutions and our Parliament is transformed into budgets together. The Minister is not present at such talks, where the institutions that we're negotiating budgets today depend on. We don't know why, it could be abroad, it could be another reason, but we think it's unfair to respect the institutions that depend on Mr. Secretary to be here on a matter of date. A second issue is that the Minister, speaking on behalf of the government, has not observed the negotiations. There's been some very important talk here, some very important assessments of the Turkish Historical Foundation, and the Minister hasn't seen them, so the Minister has been persecuted as well. I think it's possible that these budget talks have been treated in a way that we've never seen in history, in a time where we don't deserve to disparage, to make it ordinary, to make it worthless. I'd like this to go on record and be considered by the government. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0307par0120	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0308par0121	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0307par0122	Wait a second.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0309par0123	Mr. President, Mr. Omar Faruk Öz just spoke -- I didn't intervene to interrupt the Minister's speech -- between 1926 and 1949 -- that the property of the foundation had been looted, the mosques, the caravansaray had been sold, it had been destroyed -- I'd like to make a correction on this matter.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0307par0124	If you'll excuse me for a moment, Mr. Secretary would like to give you an answer, and then I'll give you my word. Please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0310par0126	Mr. President, before that, like Mr. Shandir, we have a statement to make.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0307par0127	I've never seen you before.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0310par0128	Of course, if Mr. Secretary were here, they would see our friends speaking on behalf of our group here inviting the government to explain the budget on very important matters. For example, what is the legal position of TRT 6? When it comes to the Language Foundation, how does the government feel about a budget separation from the history of Anatolian, from its mosaic, in the main language of the Kurdish people, whose number is more than 25 million? Again, Mr. Erol Dora, the only Surrian MP in the Republic's history, gave a speech on the Foundations of the Foundations of the Foundations, minority foundations, Süryani Foundation, Deyrulumur cases, at least in such matters, the Minister would have some information, an answer. In fact, we are aware that a very healthy budget interview cannot be held. So we have to listen to both the bench and read the indictment for the future of the Strict Act, which means there's a budget, sports, a fix, a conversation that's getting mixed up with each other. And since the Minister isn't here, I don't want to be unfair. I wanted to draw attention to that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0311par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0312par0131	I'll give you my word, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me for a second. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0133	Mr. President, you know, the first draft for these budget talks was between December 12th and December 26th, so at least, among our MPs, there was such a healing plan among the groups, but when this plan was changed and these talks began, there were conflicts with the foreign programmes of some of our ministers. Mr. Bulent Arinc, our Deputy Prime Minister, was scheduled to join the International Forum for Democracy in Indonesia, and he was scheduled to participate in the government a long time ago, and he did so, and...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0314par0134	Our co-chairs were in Brussels, so they couldn't come.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0135	...it was very important to represent our government in such an important international forum on democracy in the world, so that when the budget talks began on the 8th instead of the 12th, because it was an international meeting and because its date had been set earlier, he could not change his schedule. Of course, Mr. Arinc, you know, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. He probably appreciates the importance of parliament much better than most of us do.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0315par0137	No, it's not that bad. Why should he know better than any of us? Everyone knows as much as he does. Is there such a thing?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0138	Parliament puts a great deal of emphasis on its work, and I'm sure if it had been in his hands, he would have been willing to be here and participate in these negotiations himself...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0315par0139	Mr. Secretary, that doesn't look good. Everybody's a congressman here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0140	But as members of the government, we are not far from our institutions, we know our institutions. Any government member here -- of course, not as much as Mr. Arinc -- will still be able to give information about our institutions. So I don't think there's any flaws, any weakness. Besides, it's not a constant problem with other institutions. You saw it yesterday, many of our ministers were here at the first opening.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0316par0141	Mr. Secretary, there is no negotiation. Our objection is, there is no negotiation, there is no negotiation. It's mutual communication. In this combination, we need to negotiate by conveying our ideas, which we don't.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0142	Yeah. Here, you know...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0316par0143	You read a text there. Your group didn't listen, we didn't understand. That's what we want. We express our sadness.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0144	Now, you know, the presidents of all of our relevant institutions are here now. Everything that's been discussed here is being recorded. In the plan and budget phase, these issues have already been discussed significantly, discussed, discussed for each institution, discussed one by one, spoken, and spoken as far as possible. All of our friends are here, listening, and Mr. Arinc will surely be written a report on the negotiations here, all of the discussions. Moreover, if there are matters you would like to express privately, the door of Mr. Arinc will be open at any time, and it will be possible for you to always convey to him the opinions and questions you wish to convey to him about any institution.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0316par0145	Please read the speech of Mr. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0146	There's a point to what you're saying, but as I said, because of this obligation, he's not here today, unfortunately, but we're here, Mr. Bekir, I'm here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0316par0147	We're not saying anything, but it's not nice. We express our sadness.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0313par0148	We're all sort of in charge of the PM's budget negotiations.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0317par0149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Slim, here you are, sir. I'll give you two minutes to explain.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0318par0154	Thank you. In his speech, he said that mosques, caravansarays, and trusts were looted from 1926 to 49. I thought, why, in the 1920s, in the AKP, in the 30s, in the mosques, this happened to mosques. Last time, I told an example of Malatya. Now, look, none of us lived in the 26th, but we all live in 2011. İstanbul Güngören Mayor. I'm reading: Real Estate and Property Office is writing the Presidential Office. In the name of the People, Şakir Yücel Karaman. I'm reading now, my friends: the use of the land that is thought to be the cause and the ability to maintain its present form and to turn it into a stream is seen to benefit from our administration's removal of our tax debt, not having an economic loss in the transfer to the Treasury. Six mosques. The municipality of Güngören is not bringing us any income, it does not provide us any rent, it does not provide a profit. Six mosques were sold in 2011 by a AKP municipality.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0319par0158	Okay, so what? It's a mosque plot.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0318par0159	I'm not talking about 1926, I'm talking about 2011, to erase the city's tax debt... here's your official document. In the 1920s, the CHP did this. I will prove to you what kind of mosque you sold, what kind of mosque you sold, what kind of mosque you sold.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0320par0161	It's not mosque, it's land, land.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0318par0162	It's a game of cambaza. I'll give it to anyone who wants it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0321par0164	It's not about the mosque.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0318par0165	Secondly, in the past few days, Mr. Canikli, I said that a mosque was sold here, the mosque was sold, and Mr. Canikli said, "We'll do better there."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0322par0166	That's right, it's done, it's decided.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0318par0167	Do you know what they wrote in Malatya: "Muharrem Eyün will also help you. They have no money. I say to them, go to the Dutch...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0322par0168	Mr. Muharrem, the decision has been made.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0318par0169	...go to those who bite the land, go to any stranger you've sold to, go to those who profit from the Lighthouse.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0323par0171	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0324par0172	Mr. President, I want a word, he made a statement referring to my name.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0323par0173	Yes, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0324par0174	I want to explain, there's teasing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0175	Mr. President, Mr. Slim has made it sound like I've expressed a content that I don't express by mentioning my name, and I'd like to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0323par0176	Here you are, sir, please, not to challenge anything again in two minutes...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I salute you all. Those arguments, I think, many of our friends remember, were just talking about the arguments Mr. TülEST.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0182	I have the transcripts.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0183	These discussions developed, more or less, in the following framework, about the destruction of the mosque. Mr. Tün showed the photo to the public, returning to the entire parliament, saying that the mosque had been destroyed and had been destroyed by an AK PARTY municipality. After that, we got real information. To do better than that...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0184	Why are you asking me for money? He asked me for money. He went to the Dutch firm, let him go to whoever he's got a run.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0185	...to build a better mosque and in a correctional framework, such an arrangement has been made. So that mosque is in an area that's in a dead-end situation, in an area that's being put on a transformation project, and this mosque is a mosque built by a citizen, and it's not a very proper, appropriate, beautiful mosque. This place is completely transformed, and the mosque is being relocated. And then I said, I repeat, we only wash a mosque to make it much better, much better.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0187	Why did you sell the one in the day?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0188	But you destroyed it to destroy it, to destroy it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0189	Let's get out of here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0190	Well, that's the difference, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0191	Look at you, Güngören, Güngören!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0192	All of them, for God's sake, the mosque isn't falling down in there...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0193	Sunflower... why did you sell six plots? Rantrics!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0194	...the land of the mosque is being replaced, so I don't know how you people...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0195	You're making a run for the mosque land, shame on you!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0196	...if you want to see how it's destroyed, you'll go back to history...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0197	I'll explain how you sell one mosque at a time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0198	You'll go back to your history, look at your history.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0326par0199	I'll explain every time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0325par0200	I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0327par0202	Thank you, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0328par0203	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0327par0204	Mr. Oz, please, what do you want to talk about, what do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0329par0205	I'll explain how you sell one mosque property at a time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0328par0206	Mr. Slim has been taunting me with my name, and I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0327par0207	Where you are, please, where you sit. Let's open it, in a minute, whatever it is, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0329par0208	Every time you talk about 1920, I'll explain how you sold mosques in 2010.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0327par0209	Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0330par0211	Mr. President, now, Mr. İnce has just told me that CHP has raided the foundations. I didn't mention the thalan, I just said that from 1926 to 1949, the foundation of the Republic's People's Party was in power. That's 6,552. It's 920 mosques, 1,646 mosques, 20 madreses, and so on.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0329par0212	Isn't there a father-in-law who can answer the questions of the Mayor's office?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0330par0213	If Mr. Slim wishes, let's make a motion to investigate, give it to him together, really investigate. From here, I say to Mr. Tüyük, let's make a motion, and we'll look into it together.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0329par0214	Isn't there a father-in-law who can answer the questions of the Mayor's office? I have six mosque plots, the document.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0330par0215	Two: the mosque destruction he mentioned in Malatya... it's not a mosque, it's a mosque built by the tradesman there.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0329par0216	We have passed Malatiah. We have come to Güngören.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0330par0217	Yeah, and the mosque doesn't own it. A new mosque area has been assigned just within 100 meters.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0331par0219	Thank you, Mr. Oz, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0220	Mr. President, Mr. Justice and Development Party regarding a fine land sale...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0333par0221	And five people respond to one person, Mr. President, what does that mean?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0331par0222	One second, sir, one second...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0223	...has given his group information that has nothing to do with the truth, which has implicated the mayors. I want to correct the information.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0331par0224	Mr. President, a friend of ours has responded, Mr. Canikli has responded.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0225	Mr. President, but it's still going on. It was about destruction, about the sale of mosque property...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0226	Mr. President, will everyone answer me in turns?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0335par0227	Is there no man who can answer? You said, "He's here."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0228	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0229	I'm looking for a father-in-law to answer the question of the day.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0230	Mr. President, let this old man explain.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0231	One at a time. I think the whole group's vice presidents should come out at once.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0336par0232	Yes, sir, two minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0235	Mr. Tünce, my esteemed deputies; Mr. Tünce, first ask your friends of the mayor, surely there are friends of the mayor in the party. When the development plan is made, municipalities separate the school plot, the mosque site, and the site of the social donuts while they plan to build. When they break it up, the mosques are clear, the mosque is clear who's going to do it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0236	Why did he transfer it to the IRS? He's saying "I owe you" in return.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0237	While you've been planning that construction, that mosque is within the municipality, but after you've done the zoning plan, the school plot goes to national education, other sites go to different locations, private administrations, that's done.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0238	In response to our tax debt, he says.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0239	Look, I'm giving you an example, not from 1926 to 49, but an example: Look, the CHP's mayor has cancelled the Ashliya and mosque license for the Dianet Foundation, the mayor of Aydın.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0240	Why don't you just answer the question?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0241	CHPlı Alaçatı Mayor of İzmir Province, Turkey has made the historical marketplace mosque a church in Çeşme district of İzmir Province, Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0242	Don't worry about it, let's just...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0243	Look what I'm telling you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] CHP's İzmir Metropolitan Mayor has rejected the decision of the district of Yenimahalle to change the development plan for building a mosque of 5,000 people.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0334par0246	Get over it, you tell me about Güngören.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0247	Look, it's 2011 again. CHP's Antalya Metropolitan Mayor Mustafa Akadın...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0337par0249	Mr. President, what's going on?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0338par0250	It's over, it's over. Calm down, sir, calm down... calm down...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0251	...has changed plans to turn the land into a commercial area for the construction of the autogar mosque in Newborn Neighborhood.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0339par0252	Pass... Tell me about the day-to-day... tell me about the day-to-day...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0254	Mr. Tülen, if you ask your friends about the matter of Güngören...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0339par0255	So did you run for mayor?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0256	You told me I was running for mayor.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0339par0257	You ran, you didn't run.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0258	We memorized these when we ran for mayor, and we talked. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0339par0260	If you had, then you would have won the election.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0340par0261	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0332par0262	Mr. Slim, I congratulate you on your mosque sensibilities and I'm pleased. Today, for the first time in the Republican People's Party, from 1926 to 49, you have brought up mosque sensitivity for the first time, and I congratulate you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0341par0265	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0342par0266	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0341par0267	Now, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0343par0268	Just a moment, Mr. President... our Commissioner of the Enlightenment will speak.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0341par0269	The Deputy Director of the Group has spoken. If you want to talk, talk.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0344par0270	I'm an Aydın MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0341par0271	Now, sir...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0344par0272	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, please listen to me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0341par0273	One second... excuse me, sir... one second... Now, there's no end to this. Deputy Director of the Group... [[Noises from CHP rows]] One moment, sir, sit down. Just a second, let me finish. Please... Deputy Director of the Group, are you going to talk to him?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0345par0278	I'll do the talking, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0341par0279	Here, wait a minute... Please... and let's stop here, please, so...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0345par0282	Mr. Elitaş has just stated that the president of the Republican People's Party has destroyed the mosque or refused to allow it. That's not true. Let the mosque... (AK PARTY RINGS) That's not true. Look, the Council of the People's Party of Aydın has made arrangements regarding the building area of the mosque, but your intention there was not to build a temple, but to build a mall, to build a shopping mall. He wouldn't let me. Go to the Aydin Muftü, ask him. They've sat down, they've removed the business, you've given up the mall, you've given up the runt there, there's a temple being built right now. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0346par0286	Thank you. [[Continue]] D) TURK LANGUAGE [[Continue]] Congressman Melda Onur Hanım. And thank you for your patience, Ms. Melda, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0347par0321	Mr. President, Dear Regents, thank you. In fact, this heated discussion was a good thing, or I was worried about how to hold the hall after the Minister's colorful speech. I have made a pledge on behalf of myself, against the budget of the Press-Journal and Information General Directorate we've been interviewing on this tour. Do you know what the Minister mentions in his speech in the vision of the Office of Press and Information? The strong and free press is entrusted to the concerned minister, the strong and free press. The Minister of Affairs isn't here, but I think the Minister will pass it on to him, and so will our other esteemed ministers. Let's start with the strong: this vision dates back to the time when the Press Business Law was applied in our country. Today, only 5 per cent of the working journalists are covered. First we said, "We're journalists." We've called on all our colleagues in parliament to come and change the situation. Unfortunately, we did not get enough support from our AKP friends for the strong press. As for the free press, the free press is under arrest, and the free ones are not free. It's hard to remember them all. And thou tookst him, and carriedst him away before the eyes of all men. Ahmet Şık and Nedim Sener are on their 282nd day. From the indictment in the Oda TV case where you took all of his employees, it appears that the goal was to destroy a hostile news site. For four years, we find it difficult to understand why Tuncay Ozkan had been in solitary confinement for a year. Mustafa Balbay, a journalist who was elected as a member of parliament, is one of the symbols of the mortgage on the national will. He's just had his argument, Mr. Balbay. They explained how he was nominated with YSK approval. I don't think we need to explain again. There's a lot of unspoken people back there. For example, the editor of Science and Future magazine, Baha Okar, was arrested in one morning for over a year. You wrote a life sentence to Erdal Süsem for making the September magazine. You've put a lot of our colleagues in bags of TK, Revolutionary Headquarters and other terrorist crimes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0348par0327	Are you defending yourself?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0347par0328	Does anyone know about Fusun Erdogan? He's not a relative of the Prime Minister. If he was, he'd be in a different place today. He was an opponent, a radio man. Fusun Erdogan has been under arrest since September 12, 2006. One day, one day, on September 12, 2010, on the day of the referendum, the fourth year of his arrest has ended, over five years in prison. His last trial was October 13th, and in exactly four months' time, he'll appear before the judge again. One woman, one wife, guilty of misdemeanor, five years in prison. Either let it go or make a judgment call. We listened to Mr. Minister of Justice here yesterday and heard how journalists were declared terrorists in the advanced democracy of the 21st century. I ask you... [[▪ Organizational voices, noise from the AK PARTY]] They're all accusations, sir. I ask you: Is Fusun's microphone a weapon, a man killed, or an extortion device, or is the book of Achmed. Is it the book of Nedim. Is it Baha. Is it the ideas of Baha. Is it the computer of Meyesser? If there's an extortion, it's the lives that are being taken, the freedoms. If there's a murder, it's a law-crushing, it's a public display of human privacy in the newspaper pages. In the procedural democratic justice of which you have not finished praising, the judge sees no harm in looking at the cases of the defendants he had previously disputed, while insisting that he should withdraw from the case according to universal law, and the motions for rejection are rejected. Now, as he listened to these words, he would go back to the old archives, but at this time it was done, and so on and so forth, and he would go into this case, and they would try to get into a heated investigation. Because here yesterday, Mr. Minister of Justice's speech was merely past references. I thought you were a democrat. On the contrary, I regret to inform you that the Minister of Justice's understanding of law and justice is not about democracy, but about revenge.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0349par0336	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0347par0337	You're in power by 50 percent, but you're afraid...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0349par0338	Mr. Onur, your time is up, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0347par0339	...you're also afraid of the Lighthouse...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0349par0340	Mr. Onur, please... please... [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Congressmans, we're moving on to the QA for 20 minutes. Now, I'm going to make a promise to our MPs who want a word in advance. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0350par0345	Mr. Secretary, what does the Press Agency do when they go to Anatolia? He takes 15 percent of the newspapers in Anatolia alone and does nothing. Let those newspapers fight hard over there. The governor's press office is already doing that job there. What is the purpose of the Press Agency to go to Anatolia? Is it to seize 15 percent of those newspapers? Mr. RTÜK, when are you going to tender the frequency? Will you give priority to these organizations that have been broadcasting for 15 years, 20 years, laboring cities, and districts for 20 years? Will there be a priority for them in the frequency tender? Again, Mr. President of the RTÜK, you'll probably have some good news from here on the terrestrial television. Is it true that you're going to buy big TVs and give ten billion dollars to TVs in terrestrial cities every year?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0351par0348	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Dear Light...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0352par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to make an arrangement where employees of local radio, television and newspapers can live in a human way? When will such an arrangement take place? Second: How many people still work in Parliament TV? Now that the literature is down, will there be fewer people working at Parliament TV? Third: When will the football matches of Elazığspor have to be given from the Kurdish broadcaster TRT Shesh? There is a demand that this publication be stopped at once as an insult to the people in need. Fourth: extradition of the state-owned property of minority foundations in our country under law enforcement decree. How many foundations, how many restitutions did he receive in this area? What is your government's opinion on the Patriarchy's demands for the opening of the Heybeliada seminary? And your government has a corporate personality...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0353par0358	Thank you. Mr Muharrem Ence... no. Mr. Kuyoğlu, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0354par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. We recently passed the Turkish National Assembly Act, Mr. President. Our most important motive was the people on the staff of other institutions who worked in the House. I'm gonna ask you the same thing about RTÜK. How many people have RTÜK personnel and work in other institutions? Do they get paid double? And how many people are on staff at RTÜK, and working as advisors to the ministers? Do they get paid double? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0355par0366	Thank you. Dear Ali Öz, Mersin...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0356par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. In the morning shows where women and young children are usually at home, almost every channel broadcasts wedding programs. In these programmes, the real estate and real estate questions that the parties ask each other to establish the basic structure of society do not set a good example for the establishment of this sacred structure. As the Radio and Television Oversight Board, do you intend to take precautions on these programs? Wouldn't it be more appropriate to give more space to programs in the field of art, culture, education, health, traffic that increase social awareness and sensitivity at this time? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0357par0371	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu is our Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0358par0373	Thank you, Mr. President. Violence has shown a great deal of increase in our society lately. Without a doubt, the series of television films have a profound impact on the rise in demeaning women and encouraging violence to women. Do you think you can limit this kind of scene in the series? The second question is, is the entire inventory of foundation works in and abroad? If it's done, do you plan to make it a book? On the other hand, how many churches throughout Turkey have been repaired? How many mosques have church images in them? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0359par0378	Thank you. Mr. Kurt, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0360par0380	Mr. Minister, can you explain the net sums the Turkish Language Foundation and Turkish Historical Association received as a profit share from the Business Bank last year? What part of their budget do these appear to be? Second question: isn't the Lighthouse Association a separate independent institution? Why do friends from AKP get angry when they ask or say that? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0361par0383	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0362par0385	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is about our Turkish Historical Society. Recently, the various stages of our history have been discussed on various channels, knowingly, unknowingly, but what does the Turkish Historical Society do in these discussions that we can't see ourselves? Is there a pressure on the Turkish Historical Foundation for this apology and other policies of the government as a psychological action, but isn't the correct information explained by the Turkish Institute of History? Why isn't it represented on TV? Is the Turkish Historical Society planning to pass on this accurate information, or is it planning to enlighten the public on television? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0363par0388	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0364par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is about foundations. Of course, it's important that the former Secretary of State is here. What is the reason why the rights of the Lausanne Peace Accord have been abandoned, such as the basis of reciprocity? For example, why isn't the reciprocity of these non-Muslim community foundations being followed? We accepted the ecomancipation of the Fener Greek Patriarch. Did you really get the eco-identification card? Isn't that against the Lausanne Peace Accord? Another question, Mr. Secretary, is that you have allowed a ritual to be performed at the precious ruling party executives, Akdamar and Sumela monasteries. Your reason... is yours... but will you allow it, at least, to be held in the mosque of Ayasofya, to pray, to pray, at least to pray on Friday, to answer those demands? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0365par0396	Mr. Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0366par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is, as in our entire country, we have historical foundations from the Ottoman Empire in Kahramanmarash. Do we have a comprehensive project or a grant in 2012 in order to save these historical artifacts that are about to collapse? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0367par0400	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0368par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. The presidential State Control Board announced a report by overseeing the operations and procedures of the Radio and Television Supreme Council in 2006, 2007 and 2008. In summary, the report concluded that RTÜK had failed to produce successful results in carrying out its original duties, that the work environment created by autonomy was underrated, and therefore under the influence of political debates, which led to effective, economic and efficient use of it, and that a non-accountable working culture is dominated by the Oversight, says the State Review Board report. I'd like to ask you, between 2009, 2010, 2011, the Radio and Television Oversight continues the same way? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0369par0405	Thank you. Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0370par0407	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you about the Foundation General Directorate. In our province of Edirne, it has been assigned to the University of Thrace since 1984 and has been a very successful health museum since 1997. Part of the Bayezid Covenant is said to be assigned to another university from Istanbul. Is that true? If that's true, why isn't Thrace University being assigned to use the entire cyclone before?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0369par0409	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0371par0411	Mr. President, Mr. Tanal was in the 12th place.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0369par0412	Erdogan's on top of him, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0371par0413	Mr. President, here's the list.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0369par0414	He's out of the system. This is Erdogan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0372par0415	Mr. Secretary, how did the Lantern Rum Patriarchy get the deed to the Great Motherland when your government has no legal personality? What kind of bargain did the government make under this? That's what we want to know. It is also known that a significant portion of Cyprus's land belongs to Ottoman foundations. Do you plan to follow the Ottoman foundations' properties in Cyprus, to take care of them? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0373par0418	Thank you. The last speaker is Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0374par0421	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, good evening to you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0375par0423	We're out of time, so give us...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0376par0424	You're not on the list.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0375par0425	No, President, the deadline is ten minutes, so give it to us or don't give it to Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0376par0426	No, not at all, sir. One second, one second, sir. There's a list here, we're going in order, Mr. Tanal seems to have come out, there's something here, there's nothing else.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0375par0427	Mr. President, give it to everyone or stop it in ten minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0377par0428	I'm sorry if I took a friend's turn. I have no intention of violating anyone's rights. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0375par0429	If you're going to lead with justice, in ten minutes...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0378par0430	No, we're taking turns.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0375par0431	We have questions, too, and we'd like to ask them.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0378par0432	Please, please, I mean, why should we? Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0379par0434	Okay, thank you. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good night. Is the satellite fee from satellite TVs that broadcast satellites equal to all televisions or what? Can we get a list of these fees, please, and explain it to the House? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0380par0438	Sir, thank you very much. Now, Mr. Secretary, it will continue.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0381par0440	Mr. President, we don't know if he has a name or not. Mr. Tanal didn't have a name either, he came out of the system. You said, "You promised him." Regents, we've heard it all the time. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0380par0441	No, sir, neither of you have a list of names here to ask questions earlier. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0381par0442	Is that so, Mayor?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0380par0443	Please, please. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0382par0445	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to try to give short answers to the questions asked. There was a question about minority foundations, how much was returned? So far, there has been an extradition of 181 residents, a negative response since 347 was not part of the law. There was a question, such as, "How is the study of trust inventory going in the country and abroad?" ▪ How many churches were repaired? The domestic trust inventory is actually complete. Investigating the protocol-signed countries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is under way. Eight works have been restored as part of the church, and the restoration of all three works continues. There was a question, "Is there sufficient funding for restoring the foundation works found in the country?" Every year, half of our Foundation General Directorate's budget is earmarked for restorations, and so far, the restoration of more than 3,500 will be completed, which continues every year. (II.) There was a question like, "Why is there no assignment to the University of Thrace, or to another university in Istanbul?" The transfer to another university is out of the question so far, and the assessments of the allocation continue. Again, why is there a question such as the Lausanne Agreement on these foundations that does not apply? According to Article 5 of the Law on Foundations, there is only a reciprocity for new foundations, and in other matters there is no reciprocity in this legal arrangement.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0383par0451	It's in the Lausanne Peace Accord, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0382par0452	As for ecumenicalism, ecumenicalism is an adjective used by the Patriarch on his own initiative. There is no response to this in our own internal law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0384par0453	Why do you let him use it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0382par0454	As for the Turkish Historical Institution and the Turkish Language Foundation's share of the business bank's profits, the number for its 2010 profits is 82,657,378 lira. This is the amount invested in the Turkish Language Foundation on April 15th; the same amount is being deposited in Turkish Historical Institution and transferred to the General Directorate's accounts, and institutions are conducting work with the amount transferred from these accounts to the approved budget. As for the frequency tender, there was such a question as, "Will you give priority to the older institutions?" The frequency tender will take place within a year following March 3, 2012. Since a year's worth of experience was sought to enter the tender, the existing broadcasters were actually given a measure of protection. The question was, do you think there was a limitation on the stories? The RTÜK (RTÜK) does not have a restraining order. The broadcasters have editorial independences, they do their own broadcasting planning, but within their own legal framework, the RTÜK is undoubtedly implementing any control, surveillance function within the framework of its own secondary arrangements. Is there a temp working outside of RTÜK? Do they receive double wages? Double salary, you know, is out of the question in this kind of situation. Therefore, when the RTÜK staff work outside, the couple do not receive a second salary. Currently, a total of 8 RTÜK personnel are working in Turkey's Grand National Assembly and various ministries. In response to the question, how many people work at the Parliament TV? A total of 66 people are currently serving and working at Parliament TV. There was a question to the woman about violence that, yesterday, in fact, this came up again, and the answer was given to a degree, but I particularly want to stress that until very recently, we had no statistics on violence, no reliable data. In a prime minister's generality, there has been a closer monitoring of the violence against the woman and an arrest of her statistics. Thus, the recent increase is more than an increase in real events, an increase in the lack of statistics, but in the new era of statistics. It's nothing but that. We'll answer the other questions in writing, Mr. President, if you'll excuse us. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0385par0462	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0386par0464	Mr. President, there's still time.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0387par0465	Mr. President, we have three minutes, three minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0385par0466	Okay, we have three minutes, so let's move on to the question. Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0388par0468	Mr. Minister, when we follow TRT broadcasts and other television broadcasts in Turkey, we see that family relations become the arena of distorted relationships. Doesn't RTÜK have any attitude at this point, or does he consider himself in charge of these matters? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0385par0470	Thank you. Mr. Chanar, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0389par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. The head of the International Office of Relations, which is extremely important to the RTÜK, has been vacant for about seven and a half months. Is it right to have such an empty office? My respects.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0390par0475	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0391par0477	Mr. President, thank you. Many media reports show that many films or shows made by TRT for millions of dollars do not even need to be published. Has there been any investigation or investigation by our ministry of the government or the government of the poor, the poor, the poor, the strange guru who has been taken away from their rights and caused these resources to be misused? If it's done, can you tell me what the outcome is? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0392par0480	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will you answer?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0393par0482	In the series of movies, the demeaning of women, the violence against women... according to Article 8 of Law 6112, the 1st (s) section of Article 8 (s), the services of the publication cannot include programmes that oppose gender equality, promote pressures against women and exploit women. I also believe that the postings on this office's presidency will be made as soon as possible.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit05spe0392par0484	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the question-answer process is complete. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the second round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.01 (RADYO AND TELEVIZYON BUILDING) 1. ▪ Radio and Television Supreme Council Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 87.166,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 48,634,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 137,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 46,600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 90,400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 137,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Article 12 of Law 3984 states that the Central and Country Board of Radio and Television's staff board for 2012 has agreed on the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, I'd like to submit to your votes the staff boards of the Radio and Television Supreme Council, 580 in the rural community, 90 in total, 670 in total: those who accept... those who don't accept... are accepted. The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted by the central management budget in 2012 and by the staff boards. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight Board of Directors of the 2010 Central Administration's final account... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ Radio and Television Oversight 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 110,000,000.00 - Budget Expenses 87.068.373.49 - Canceled allowance: 22.931.626.51 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget forecast: 110,000,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 90.839.346.40 (B) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted as part of the central management account in 2010. I submit to your votes that the Editors-in-Chief of Media Information shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.77 - BASI EYE ENFORMASYON GENIFYON 1. ▪ Press Publishing Information General Directorate 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 9.290.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 02 Defense Services 35,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 425,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 79,712,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained TOPLAM 89,462,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Editor-in-Chief of Press Publishing Information has been adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Editors-in-Chief of Media Information, the central management account of 2010, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't agree... Sustained. 2. ▪ Press Publishing Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 86,523,010.00 - Budget Expenses 84,890,355.01 - Canceled allowance : 1,632,654.99 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Editor-in-Chief of Press Publishing Information has been accepted into parts of the central management account in 2010. I submit to your votes that the Foundation General Directorate of the Central Management budget of 2012 will be transferred into its sections: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. 40.18 - THE GOVERNMENT OF THE VICTIMS 1. ▪ General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22.535.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6.115,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 528,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 310,314,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 55,030,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 394,523.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 394,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Earnings With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 40,600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings 34,900,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 471,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of Foundations was adopted in 2012 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2010 will be transferred to the chapters of the Foundation General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ▪ General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2010 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 563,701,806.28 - Budget Expenses 360,221,670.29 - Canceled allowance: 202.951.664.61 - Refundance for the following year: 528,471.38 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 509,000,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 394,862,392.89 (B) Those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2010 were adopted. Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2012 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.02- ATATURK CLUB, LANGUAGE AND ACTIVITY PRESIDENT 1. ▪ Central Management Budget for 2012 President of Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.099.800 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 167,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 734.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 8,001,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 2,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids - 7.961,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 38,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. TOPLAM 8,001,000 All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the final account of the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History should be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't agree... Sustained. 2. (Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Chairmanship 2010 Central Management Final Account) I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 5.268,000.00 - Budget Expenses 3.815.295.96 - Canceled allowance : 1,452,704.04 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't agree... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 4.553,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 3.454,327.55 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the budget of the Ataturk Research Center will be transferred to the section of the budget: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. 40.03- ATATURK RESEARCH CENTER 1. ▪ Ataturk Research Centre 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.393,000 All those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. TOPLAM 2.393,000 All those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 180,000 All those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 2,213.000 All those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. TOPLAM 2.393,000 All those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Ataturk Research Center, I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2010 will be transferred to its specific sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ا Ataturk Research Centre 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 2,873,800.00 - Budget Expenses: 2.466.215.20 - Canceled allowance: 407,584.80 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 2.384,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 2.458,474.73 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted as part of the central management account in 2010. Ataturk Cultural Center, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2012 will be moved to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.04 - ATATURK CLUB CENTER 1. ▪ Ataturk Cultural Centre 2012 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,169,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained... TOPLAM 3,169,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 3,019,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 3,169,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2012. Ataturk Cultural Center for Central Management in 2010, I submit to your votes that the final account be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2. ا Ataturk Cultural Centre 2010 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 4.186,762.93 - Budget Expenses: 2.989.997.18 - Canceled allowance : 1,196,765.75 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 3.504,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 3,453,400.11 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted in 2010 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 40.05-Turkish Language 1. (Turkish Language Foundation Central Management Budget for 2012) [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 13.605,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 13.825,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 99.112,000 All those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 1,001000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 34,887,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 135,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management budget were adopted in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation's central management account for 2010 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. (Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2010) (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 13.777,000.00 - Budget Expenses 7.670.965.28 - Canceled allowance: 6,106,034.72 Those who accept the CECAN (A) ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 117,000,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 100,616,945.80 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management account in 2010 have been adopted. I would like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.06-Turkish Tariq Kurd 1. ▪ Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2012 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 250,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.561,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6,811.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 85,469.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Earnings With Donations and Aids 64,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 34,467,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 120,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish historical institution's central management budget were adopted in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Society's central management account of 2010 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2. (Turkish Historical institution Central Management Terminate Account for 2010) (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Total allowance: 8.562.307.00 - Budget Expenses 6.515.190.15 - Canceled allowance: 2,047,116.85 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: C E T V E L [[TL]] - Budget estimate: 123,000,000.00 - Net Collection of the Year: 97.092.303.71 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Historical Association's central management account in 2010 have been adopted. The Radio and Television Oversight Board has been adopted by the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information, the General Directorate of Foundations, Ataturk Culture, the Ataturk Research Centre, the Ataturk Cultural Centre, the Turkish Language Institution, the Turkish Historical Foundation's central management budgets in 2012 and the final accounts of central management in 2010. We wish them well. Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda. Van MP Nazmi Gür has been nominated for the 1 membership of the Peace and Democracy Party group, which is empty in the European Union's Integration Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel has been nominated for the 1 membership of the Peace and Democracy Party group, which is empty in the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0392par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0394par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0392par0004	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0394par0005	Under the Civil Code, MPs cannot enter the General Assembly Hall without a tie.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0392par0006	Right.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0394par0007	I read the Civil Charter 56/1: "On the presidential bench, the president, the white butterfly, wears a black pole over a tie and a black vest. " You are not wearing a black vest, you are not in accordance with the Internal Charter, the negotiations cannot be carried out. You're not dressed for it, you're not fit for 56/1.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0392par0008	Now, Mr. Slim, if you'll excuse me for a moment. I was always wearing a black vest, you know, they said: "Wearing black and white in the daytime, at night." They put white vests on him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0394par0010	There is no such thing in the Civil Code. It's not in accordance with the Civil Code. The talks can't continue until you change your vest.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0395par0011	Mr. President, you know we're doing this, even though the women legislators aren't in this arrangement.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0392par0012	Just a second... yeah.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0396par0013	Mr. President, white is a promise!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0392par0014	No, we'll wear it then, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0397par0015	Mr. President, it's not appropriate, it's not in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0398par0016	Mr. President, it's appropriate.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0397par0017	Read it or read it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0398par0018	Mr. President, when you look at the opinion of the General Assembly, it's appropriate.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0397par0019	No, read it. It says black vest. This is a violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0399par0020	Yeah, he's got a black vest.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0397par0021	It's a violation of the Civil Code, you can't.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit06spe0399par0022	I'm taking a five-minute break, sir, now.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0399par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 8th Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We begin talks with the Law and the Justice Commission Report Against the President of Article 89th and 104th Articles of the Constitution, which is ranked number 1 in the ranking of 24.11.2011, historical and 6250. [[Continue]] Commission? He's in position. Government? It's in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 103 rows. We're starting negotiations on the entire law. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0016	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. [[AK PARTY and CHP rows bilateral conversations, noise]] Mr. President, please remain calm...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0399par0019	Yes, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0401par0020	Do you know the verse?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0021	I know the verse, I know it. Don't I know the verse? I know the verse. Speaking of verses, let's start with that mosque discussion. They fell into a big bidet in CHP and AK PARTY. I'm not worried about me, I'm worried about them. Islam is not a temple religion, my friends, but a mosque is a mosque if you make your hearts miserable. For him, it's destroyed, it's made, it's made, it's not worth a polemic. What's important is that you turn your heart into a mosque. (x) The first talks of the Law were held in the 22nd and 24/11/2011 23rd unifications. (xx) 103 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Anyway, it's not very well handled. I'd like to say a few words from here on this occasion -- it's an ukde in me. Surely they believe in Allah, and do not trust in Allah. They put alarms on all the mosques, ironed their doors, anchored their windows. That's not going to happen. Really, it's not going to happen. Guys, I'm going to...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0402par0026	They protect you from those who do not believe in God.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0027	Let him follow the devil; God will take account of him. Let him sleep. Really, it's... Have you ever seen this in the mosques of other countries? Did you see it in Arabia?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0403par0029	There are churches.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0030	Yes, you can see it in Christianity. It's a temple religion. It's not like that with us. There, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there. You can do that at home. To him, the temple is not religion. Well, I'm a man who's too involved in this to disrespect anything, but I'd say it's up to the State to consider this alarm. What's the point? I'd like to start with a Necip Fadil poem, which is a fix: nine to nine for one. If the law in front of us were to make this cab a wolf, that's exactly what it's going to do. We forgive every theft, every theft of labor, every lack of grace, every ungentlemanliness, and we make such fine arrangements that it seems as if the late Necip Fadil has seen today and said so. He wouldn't make such a division if he was king of the lambs. Now, Mr. Canikli had a dissertation that he repeated so often, he said that if he hadn't come to this motion in the first place with a unanimous vote, this law would not have been discussed in Parliament. I admit that he was sincere in this, and I believe that he was sincere, yes. No one here would dare to take that risk without involving everyone else in this crime. In a case that's going on, half the competition that's being played is changing the rules. It's not something that everyone takes a chance on. Well, we believe that. What happened after that? After that, almost half of the AK PARTY fled. I don't think so, the public part of what you're saying. Even Mr. Elitaş, in his first statement, said that the president's word was not to be said. Then we saw that the president's word could be spoken for. We don't have a problem with obstruction, delays, compromises. We and you... there are those of you who dare to ask, there are those who do not dare. We want an explanation for those who didn't have the guts, why? It's as simple as that. What happened yesterday was that Mr. Prime Minister said that Mr. Arinc had been against this proposal from the beginning, that this is not our proposal. This is not our proposal -- or the law proposal -- that if I mixed it with it -- you bring it to this Parliament with such enthusiasm, with such enthusiasm, with such determination. To answer a very simple question, we can have these negotiations in five minutes. Why? So far, no answer has been answered. Do you know why, Councillors? And those who argue against it are not able to provide an answer to their own conscience here. Put your hand on your conscience, we're doing a good thing. If the feeling is really coming to you, we have friends we've put our faith in, let's say, in the AK PARTI MPs, all of them, so that someone can say to God, "Oh, let's go to sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's go in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's sleep in peace, let's go to sleep in peace. Now, there's no such thing. Now, I don't mean to insult CHP, but Mr. CHP people, you're very naive. I'm sorry, you're really naive. I'm saying this as a favor, not an insult or a negativity of the word. Now, here, it's our job to make sure that everything that hasn't been made public is public. Deep down, you're saying, "Wait, it's an allelem, if this law passes, maybe we'll get our deputies out the next day, maybe we'll get them out the next day."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0404par0038	Why are you laughing?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0039	There's really nothing to laugh about, there's really nothing to laugh about. If I were you, I'd cry like this. Now, purity is here. Really, maybe you've been told something like this, or maybe it's meant to be. That's where I'm telling you, in your dreams. (EC PARTIES) This cruelty, this double standard, as this hypocrisy becomes dominant, we are on a very bad path. What you call white yesterday is that today, without any change of circumstances and without a convincing sentence, today is black, waiting for a mindset to become an intercessor to be wronged tomorrow, to the oppressed, to the victims, to the innocent, to the pure, to the pure. They won't, I assure you. This wheel will continue. It's programmed. This is gonna go on for a while. I'd like to ask Mr. Canikli again: Does the President have no value in this country, my friend, Mr. President? Are you going to charge him with misdemeanorism? As a matter of fact, he's been accused, accused, implied. Well, there have been some flags in your group, the threat of resignation, until you co-operate with Ergenekon. I thought we said that and you'd drag us into it. E, it's your own proxy. And as he's an expert at it, he has a claim. And it's a case that you've moved here based on your expertise. So, all this is worthless? That friend of ours isn't here today. I wish he were here. I wish the newspaper was on the people's bench instead of going to the newspaper... look, there was a difference of opinion in the BDP, and we made it clear, and we convinced each other somehow, and those who didn't, will take their own stand on this matter. What's wrong with that? What's that?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0405par0042	Is that why you disagreed with each other?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0043	Yes, there's been a disagreement about this law. Besides, we can have disagreements about everything. Politics is a division, but there's a right here. So when it comes to rights, friends, communities are built on good feelings or built on common good, they're permanent. Look, I'm not going to go into it except once. I'm not going to go out here and talk about our lawmakers' situation, disproportionate KCK arrests, politics' destruction, detention operations or anything like that, but I want to keep it separate, just so I can address your consciences. We'll talk about it some other time, some other way, every day, but there's a right here. The President sees this, friends of your party who dare to say it and who don't, and I don't use it in a negative way, we're all aware of the truth of the party, the organization's discipline. And don't let anyone call it color love, for God's sake. Color has its dignity, and it's not a market meta. The Besiktas Bazaar Group, in fact, presented the greatest example of this. I told you, I don't hire any team, including the national team, I've never seen the inside of a green field, but I consider myself bound by a law, by universal legal values and by a minimum of ethics, by morality. You don't have to be an expert, you don't have to be a virtue. And when we look at the process, and I swear to God, this silence -- I swear to God twice -- because none of you can inspire it in your hearts.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0406par0046	Just because we listen doesn't mean we accept everything you say.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0047	Thank you, of course not, of course not.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0406par0048	Don't put it there. There's so much to say.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0049	But we're already here to say a lot of things, Congressman.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0406par0050	Yeah, that's the way it's supposed to be.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0051	You can come back after us. That's what we do. In fact, we want to be persuaded, or if you're aware, we don't have any demagogues or demagogues or anything else to stoop to. We want an answer to the question of why. That's a lot more than it looks. Aman, they've settled down. They're already on trial from the organization, half will come out, half won't come out. There's something that can't be avoided like that. There is a Finnish folk tale. Honor, clouds, and the sun came together, decided to play hide-and-seek. Each one of them is hiding somewhere. They went to the sun, and they found it in a group behind a mountain, and they found the wind in a deep cove, and they found no honor. They accepted defeat. Come on, come out wherever you are. Once I'm lost, I can't be found. There's a voice. It's an honor to go here, the honor of labor, the right of others. It's not yours that's being robbed, it's yours to be generous with. In fact, you stand aside in matters that you would be generous with. In the name of someone else, I'm throwing, maybe Sivasspor was going to be a champion -- maybe because I didn't understand -- it would be Bursa, and I don't know who was the champion, but whoever it was, this allelemum has stopped it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0407par0055	You know, you know...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0400par0056	I don't know, Aslanoglu, I don't know. And it is not for us to enjoin on him another man's bequest. You're people from the tradition of retribution, or you're familiar. If you ask the deputy who's with you, he'll tell you, if he's not behind you. Now, here's the thing: crimes against the state, look, it's the subject of the House. Here you can understand all sorts of magnificence, because you say, this is the highest crystallized representation of the state. A, we've seen this peace in this, and it leads us to the light that we've made this decision on this occasion. It's your right, your right, your right, and your rights, but it's not our right, not ours, not ours. It shouldn't be our job to be magnanimous here over someone else's hard work and rights. We're not screws, okay? Why clean up other people's messes? I ask you, put your hand on your conscience, it has a bleeding wound. We know there's a war going on, call it terrorism, call it combat, call it low-density civil war, or call it war. So let's put our hand on our conscience and ask ourselves: Have we ever tried to bring the law to this point twice? Every day Kurd, our Turkish children perish. That's how much it's given us? Do we have an answer for that? Our elders think better of everything than we do. We're anchored in your port, we're not mobilizing it at all, but somehow between the shoe and the gravel, we heat and heat this Shika Act up like rice. Speaking of seniors who think better of us, why didn't we once see our football buddy express his opinion about this, and it's up to commoners like me to talk about it? I wonder, for example, what does Hakan think of this? If he came out here and said a few words, he'd be the one coming from the inside. Here, the lobby's rolling. We have our own proxy. Well, who knows better than him if he's a good guy? A private brother of ours, who we do not doubt or doubt his character, may come and say, "Woe, aghas, gentlemen, perhaps you are wrong about this, and that is not the truth. This is the truth of the matter. Let me get this straight. Mr. Canikli called such an agreement a motive. Look, I don't do thesis, and I don't mention any MPs mentioned in the indictments or anything like that. He spoke of such an understanding. This agreement has been fragmented, cracked and scattered in forty places. There's a president on one side, there's a BDP, there's some lawmakers from the EC PARTI, there's a highly respected Mr. Bkent Arinc, and there's obviously the Prime Minister's will, and there's a ruling party in between saying, "How are we going to account for this?" And there's a party of main opposition who hopes, perhaps, with an intercesssion, that they'll get out of there. His performance in protocol is a sign of what he's going to do after the fix. Let's do one thing in this law, before we put any more into the polemics, and let's do something like this: maybe a name-calling, maybe a clear vote without actually agreeing or refusing to mention it, but let's be clear, friend. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I didn't raise my hand, I didn't come to the vote. Come on, let's do this, if we're gonna do this, name it, and let's not go too far with this process, there's budget work tomorrow. We don't want to beat up the farmer, we don't want to raid the garden. I salute you with all due respect and respect. I'm sorry if something went too far. I didn't mean to be disrespectful to anyone or anything, but I really did say what I felt in my heart. Thank you, my respects, my friends.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0408par0065	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0409par0066	Mr. Commander, we're going to issue an open vote, so everyone's going to vote.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0408par0067	Dear MPs, Ali Longırmak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill, is our Aydın MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0410par0070	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on behalf of my group on the text that has changed the Law on the Obstructing Violence and Disorganisation of Sports, which Mr. President vetoed. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen, how did 6222 first prepare, how did it come, and I would like to briefly brief you on this, and discuss some issues without using very, perhaps 20 minutes, because there is a vast amount of information pollution. Why is this pollution? One: a world where, of course, huge economic and social status are created, discussed and shared. So there are sides, there are fans of teams, and there's a different level of perception and opportunity in this idea of being a fan, and there's a different level of competition that gives you a sense of competitiveness. Besides, there's ignorance, there's talks in Turkey and the world without its location and its destination, connecting the sector with other areas of the industry, without being included, as he would like to believe. What do I mean by talks without a target? By confusing the sports world, its activities in Turkey and the world with emotions, its goals, its universal understanding, its institutionalization, without recognizing this world, of course, personal assessments will lead to misinformation. To avoid this, I want to share things with you as someone who knows the subject closely and who has a history of interest. Dear lawmakers, Law 6222 is not an offer of the Association of Clubs as it is spoken in public, the main function was the Turkish Football Federation as that law was passed. All the clubs have signed. There are some arguments, such as "all the clubs" that are not in the process and have misinformation and misinformation of our friends. The main institution in the proposal is the Turkish Football Federation of that day. Of course, as the Association of Clubs, the active people in sports, the valued lawmakers, that's when they didn't read, agreed, they didn't admit... of course, people make mistakes. Those mistakes are for all of us. The important thing is to come back from mistakes. Therefore, no one, not a club president, not in the laws of violence within that atmosphere, can dare say, "Let this punishment be this much," dear friends. He can't say that either. There's no way to tell. They'll say, "Haa, then it's a fixer." We're all going through this together. There's no way the technique of lawmaking is acceptable in a psychology like resisting him, defending the high punishment, preventing the fix, or proving that he's not a fixer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is the way the proposal, 6222, comes first and foremost. I've argued that the 6222 was in a hurry as well as we as the National Movement Party Group, that it wasn't discussed correctly, that we're looking at the reports of the Violence Research Commission in 2005, that we're looking at the Turkish sport as a projection, as a mission, as a vision, as a mission, that the Commission's report on the problems of the Sports Club was not expected, that this bill would not be healthy, and that the law would not be right, and that I'm defending it today, and that while my group is looking at these issues, we're looking at it as a project, as a mission, as a mission, we're looking at Turkish sports. So, my dear friends, if you take judicial punishments for the universal values of sport, universal law, in terms of universal, institutional structures, you do the worst for the sport. I'm always defending it, and I'll keep defending it. In sports management, the height of criminal punishments and judicial punishment should never be the basis. Sports should govern sports, and sports should be punishments, supporting punishments, judicial punishments, and the main punishments should be sporting punishments. What do I mean by that? If the system of thinking, such as economic punishment for economic crimes in Turkey at one time, can be considered to be advanced and correct, sports should also be based on sporting punishments. With the legal laws, with the criminal laws, you can make certain arrangements, as a collateral. But besides, there should be a lot of weight in regulations, regulations, and sporting punishments. I told the Minister that at the Justice Commission. Sports courts must be set up at once. In addition, there must be a number of boards such as sports sentences and sports penalty boards and the arbitration of the federations -- which we have changed in our Constitution, in our interest in sports -- and these should be improved. This is how sports should be transformed into an institutional structure, and sports should be governed by an institutional structure. If you don't look at sports as a whole in that logic, Turkish sports will lose the competitiveness of the world. At that time, disasters await us because sports is an industry that has grown to economic greatness in the 4th and 5th place, according to controversy, with direct and indirect effects. In order to reach its rightful place in this sector, Turkey must look for solutions to these issues with these projections, objective and world sports institutions and rules. So, 6222, at this point, was rushed and incomplete. When we were discussing the veto reasons of our President... I, again, spoke close to the same metaphor, again, and said that there might be mistakes, there might be arguments, and when we look at the veto motives of our President, there are many things that are possible to see, dear friends. Of course, I want to put this reserve right here, right now: Unfortunately, in Turkey, where there are so many debates, dear friends, we need to see that these laws, based on the majority, are incomplete and false. It is better than a thousand advices. We, at least the AKP majority, must act with the opposition in order to make the following laws more careful. We need to live here and know that the logic must be abandoned. Anyway, so far, the AKP has come, feeding on opposition, feeding on incompatibility. Dear friends, the reason for this veto is that there are two concerns: 1) Mr. President, in tomorrows, did he veto this law to open a political maneuvering field? It's become a very sharp belief. 2) Mr. President, while vetoing this law, did he veto this law, still in an emotional bond with the AKP, fearing to embrace power and opposition together in society, in order to embrace all of the opinions in society? That's a strong opinion in society. Dear lawmakers, as a Turkish nationalist, I would like to share something with you as an MP who has dedicated his life to defending the state's term. There are three places that carry our flag in their car, one is the presidency, the second is the embassies, the third is our governorships. That's supposed to mean something. If the presidency, embassies and governorships carry the flag of the Republic of Turkey in their vehicles, it means that they are the authorities of this nation, a party, a political opinion, a political thought should be removed from its position. I'd like to share with you that if there are veto and approvals at the presidential office, which I still respect very much, with the arguments that we've expressed these concerns about. Look, Mr. President, what does the veto say? "I clearly have a problem with this law, because a law that had been passed six months ago should have been better established," Gul said before his trip to Kyrgyzistan. So the law that was passed six months ago, 6222, 6222, is not correct, Mr. President, he himself states. Mr. President, why did you approve of 6222? Well, Mr. President, measured and deterrentism talks about its impact on ongoing investigations and its concern about establishing a law against the individual. Dear lawmakers, if it's supposed to affect ongoing investigations in this country, a law must be passed and this Parliament must leave itself, because life continues. We break the law while life goes on. The laws that have been passed will surely affect someone, the ongoing investigations, the final punishments. There's no way we can prevent that. So we're going to announce it, so don't perform this activity for ten years, we're going to make a law on that area. We're going to say it's not going to get interrupted. Of course, I would also like to share with you about the ongoing investigations: There have been a number of law changes based on the AKP majority, which will affect ongoing investigations. The AKP's majority here has passed the abuse of the mission. And that didn't affect the ongoing investigations? Isn't there a law in this country for Erbakan Hodja, a law in Erbakan Hodja? Mr. President didn't approve of this? Oh, the fact that he approved these things means that when a law like this comes up, I don't use them as a constant validation, I don't mean that I approve of them, but because, for good reason, when you're in conflict with what you want to do, when you're in conflict with what you need to do, when you're looking for an exit, those reasons don't seem to be credible to us. So I'd like to share another matter with you here before we make it personal. Dear lawmakers, MPs' speech areas are primarily the General Assembly hall, the residency commissions. On behalf of their groups, if they want to, on behalf of their individuals, if they want to, the MPs may get a chance to speak and explain their thoughts. On a TV show, I came across an accusation that I'm not going to be able to deal with. Ali Longırmak is supposed to be responsible for this law, Yıldırım Demirören has walked all groups in parliament as hosts. Such as Mr. Gaziantep MP Shamil Tayyar Bey has made some statements on TV, TV 8. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I am a member of the sports community. Mr. Özdemir, who currently holds the presidency of Fenerbahçe, is my assistant at the university. Yıldırım Demirören, I am the congressional commissioner of Beşiktas, my club president, my friend. Kayseri, Recep Major is my friend. Mr. Ilhan Cavcav, President of the Youth League, is a friend of mine. In fact, Ibrahim Red Bey, president of Gaziantep, is a friend of mine, and they came to us as the Club Association Foundation because of these dialogues. Mr. Demirören is the President of the Association of Clubs Foundation, and I've only accompanied them in the National Movement Party Group. I'm not in the AKP Group, the CHP Group, I'm not in the BDP Group, and I've made it very difficult for a member of parliament to talk like this on TV, and I've asked him to ask him, in a civilized way, Mr. Congressman, you have such misinformation, you have a misunderstanding, I'm asking you to correct it. I've asked you to correct it. I've waited until now and I've waited for Mr. Tayyar to correct it. If he'd fixed it on TV, I wouldn't have had this conversation today at the General Assembly, but today I'm having this conversation with the General Assembly. And I know what I'm talking about. Mr. Shamil Tayyar should quit the prosecution, quit journalism, realize he's a member of parliament, speak to the General Assembly, speak to the committees. It is...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0411par0089	You'll be the judge of that?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0410par0090	Don't get all lawyered up, let Shamil Tayyar come in, don't talk, don't be a lawyer, I'll give you the answer, don't worry. Therefore, valuable lawmakers, this arrangement should be the beginning of the process of supporting judicial punishments for Turkish sports, where the fundamental regulations are pressured into federations, and then turned into sporting punishments by discussing them with the federations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, cheating, of course, is a theft of labor, but when we think about the phase of this investigation, there are a lot of questions. In April, the law came out, the leagues ended in May. In May, the first fix in the hunt of the leagues before the end of the match would not continue if the criminals were caught, but the championship would become a different team; it was given the opportunity for the next one to continue; it was not enough; the investigation was left after July 3rd, after the elections; after that, the federation was left after the federation elections, and the federation found a time bomb in its lap today. Thus, within this time bomb, the Federation is also involved in some contradictions. At work, no one in Turkey wants to take responsibility for any of the investigations, research, or investigations until UEFA has reached others, and by being held an international witness, Turkey continues its quest to get out of line of duty. These are unbecoming behaviors for Turkish sports and Turkish executives. I say directly, honestly, with confidence, whether it's the criminal judges or the managers of the sports club, the managers should take responsibility for these issues, and I argue that the arrangement must, as I said, be settled in a position based on legal punishments, sports punishments. A footballer who signs a contract for a million dollars a year doesn't give up $5 million when you predict he'll get a five-year sentence. And you don't cheat with millions of dollars for a Sivas game, my dear friends. Knowing the market, the rules, and the way it works, we'd be serving the country right now. My deepest regards to all of you, and I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0412par0098	Thank you, Mr. Longneck. The third word on the general, Mr. Bulent Tezcan Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0413par0101	Thank you. Members of parliament, Law 6250, which has been sent back by Mr. President to be met again, has already been discussed here. During those talks, there were talks here on long materials and all over them. More or less, the Council of General Assembly's will on this matter has been formed, and it has emerged, and Law 6250 has been adopted here, but the final procedure has not been completed in the presidential process of ratifying the President, and it has come again. The Justice Commission met with him yesterday, and today the General Assembly is on the agenda. Dear friends, we've been talked about this -- again -- over and over again. What's interesting here, I think, is that the fact that the public has been busy for two days is that Mr. President vetoed this law and sent it back to Parliament for renegotiation. Of course, if there had been similar practices in previous laws, it wouldn't have taken up so much of the agenda. Dear friends, I think it's only natural that we're having a hard time understanding this. Look, after our President was elected President, the fundamental laws that are very important to Turkey, and even very important to our national interests -- not in agreement -- were sent out in front of the Justice and Development Party, with the ruling party's votes -- were long debated in public, see, if this is approved, Turkey's national interests would be severely damaged to this extent. When it is discussed, you are the last office, don't confirm it, send them to Parliament once more. Look, remember about the land mines. The law on the withdrawal of land mines to outsiders is a law that will set an example for this, and was later annulled by the Constitutional Court. We'd expect the same sensitivity in that law from the President, the President's office; it didn't happen. I'm not going very far, there are many examples -- unfortunately there are many examples -- but I'm not going very far -- recently, just before the June 12th elections, this Parliament recently passed a law of authority, my friends, in accordance with Article 91. Dear friends, the Third Section of the Constitution counts the organs of the state, while the legislature of the state calls it the "Yasamama body," describing the Turkish Parliament as the "Yamama body." The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a duty to oversee other than its legislative duty, but its basic task is to legislate. Legislative duty is an irresponsible authority, a non-transferable task, an intransitable right. On the exception of the exception, the Constitution has been authorized to issue a decree on the 91st Article of the Law, but in exceptional cases, it will be concluded in haste and quickly. Dear friends, prior to the June 12th elections, a law of authority allowed us to reshape an entire state order, the AKP majority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, not all. Turkey's Grand National Assembly's AKP majority has given the authority to reshape an entire state order. Who? To the government. When? Right before the election. Dear friends, you have to think about it. What was the rush just before the election? Look, it's been arranged for the Ministry of Justice, there's been an arrangement for the Ministry of Justice, there's been a lot of new ministries, the ministries are divided, the ministries are set up, the governors, the office managers have waited for months to see what will happen to me? This has been the instrument of staffing the entire state system. Dear friends, a state order cannot be shaped by a decree in total law enforcement. This is the age of the authority to act directly. That's straight to the truth...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0414par0111	Get to the fix, get to the fix.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0415par0112	Come to the gym.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0413par0113	Don't bother. I remind you of your authority. I remind you of your authority. I remind you of your authority to hold on to your jealousy, so don't bother. Dear friends, a state order...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0416par0115	What's that got to do with the law?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0413par0116	You'll see what it has to do with the law. You'll see what we're seeing. A state order cannot be handed over to the government in this manner. That's what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey says, "I'm giving up the power of law." It doesn't mean anything else. I'm going to come over here. What's that got to do with it? I'm coming over. My dear friends, let's say that the majority of the government in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is one of us -- I mean in good faith, not for any other reason -- that our government doesn't do wrong -- in good faith -- is in need of reforming state order. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is responsible for implementing the rules in the Constitution, it is the most important duty of the President to be sensitive about constitutional compliance. Dear friends, when that Law of Authority went away, we would have wanted to see the same sensitivity to the failure of this Law of Authority, but the Parliament, which shapes a state order from top to bottom and shapes its state order before the election, did not show the same sensitivity in the Law of the Parliament, which ended its term. Now, there has been a weighty agreement here as Law 6250 is being discussed. This weighty agreement... only one group has stated that they disagree, and we respect that, but the rest of the group has been heavily approved, and our President, if you'll pardon me, has remembered that he is the President. Dear friends, there's no way to understand this. Of course, when that happens, there's nothing more natural in public than to talk about it for days in the press. The citizen asks: "What is in the background of this? What is the background of the presidential office today, not the background of the Parliament passing the law, but of the issues that have not been sensitive so far?," he asks. He wonders what caused this crack in the ruling majority at the ruling party? Dear friends, of course, we're not in a position to explain it, we're not in a position to explain it; our concerned friends will express their opinion on it. Dear friends, look, this law, which is referred to as Law 6222, the Law on the Order of the Order of the Divine Law, comes out on 14 April 2011. Now, the investigation, which he called out in the President's statement, which he spoke of, is a special law against the person, is being created. The investigation, which he called, which is the same as that, began on December 10, 2010. They were published in the press, which started on December 10, 2010, so about five months before the release of the Law, four and a half months ago, technical surveillance began. I don't know, there's an investigation going on, and I'm not busy with it, but there's wiretaps going on, and she told him, and that's what he brought up, and that's what happened today, four and a half months ago, and the Shike Act comes out on April 14! There is no operation until then, until then, there is no regulation in the Turkish Penal Code. On April 14, 2011, this law on the fraud was issued as the investigation continued. After that, it continues with technical surveillance, investigations, the date of the button pressed July 20, 2011. Why? Because there's an election on June 12th. There's no telling where a button like this will blow the fuse before the election, no telling which insurance it'll blow, and as far as the press is concerned, Mr. Prime Minister is already being briefed on this matter before the operation is launched. After those briefings are briefed, the operation begins, and that's the picture that came out. Dear friends, I don't know when a private arrangement is made, and I don't know how, and I don't think our group knows that. We don't have personal arrangements in our experience, we don't have that experience, but -- it's been said before -- with the majority of AKP power in this General Assembly, unfortunately, private arrangements have been made in our history of Parliament and today --
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0417par0124	You have your support.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0413par0125	It was a step towards placing democracy, that's something else. That's something else, we know what it is. That's something else.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0418par0126	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0413par0127	He says that your Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan should be made Prime Minister, so don't bother, give me support. That's what he means, from here. It's an important step we're taking there for Turkey's democracy, and we know what it is. I wish you could have that maturity now so that you could do that for eight arrested MPs, that you could do that for Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I won't push your patience any longer, I'm just saying that we are pleased and happy that Mr. President, at least in this case, has remembered the powers of the presidency. We have stood behind our earlier signature on this law on the Justice Commission, and again, as the Republican People's Party Group, we will vote on this amendment in the same way as this law, and our next wish, our wish is that the President and the entire parliamentary majority show the same sensitivity to the definition of terror in Turkey, the same sensitivity for democratic openings, and the same sensitivity for arrested MPs. I'd like him to show the same sensitivity to the fullness of national will in Parliament. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0419par0133	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Hakkı village MP Kastamon. Mr. Villageman, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0420par0137	Mr. President, before I express my views on the law, I salute the High Council and Mr. President. I don't want to talk too much at this time of night, and I won't go into too much detail, but I need to talk to you about a few things that have been discussed. First of all, there are certain things said about the exit process of Law 6222, why was he brought together? Was it pre-election? What was the reason? Now, it doesn't take 15 days, 20 days, or a month, or two months to get out of this law. Before Law 6222 comes out, drafting the bill covers a minimum of a year and a half. In the early months of 2011, in Turkey, in the games, as you all know, there were very serious incidents. Now it's become that these things need to be prevented quickly, and that requires a new law, and that law must be passed during that period, because the idea that the law should be in effect before the next, the next, the next, the games, began, and therefore, the adoption of the law has been accelerated by assuming that the House will take a vacation. As a result, in April, this law came into effect. After a very short time, Parliament took a vacation for the elections, and it was no longer possible to extend. Otherwise, there's no thought behind this about the investigations that have already begun. We don't know about those investigations, and this House doesn't, because those investigations were already under wraps. And as a result of those investigations, what we saw today, although the fraud was not a separate crime at that time, but when we looked at the indictment of the state's attorney, we now see that some of the actions we call a fix were considered fraud at that time. Now, I'd like to point out that the President has vetoed the Law that is leaving here. The opposition would like to ask the president to return at least to a law he does not want to appear in the General Assembly, which he objects to. That's his right, of course. If he doesn't come back, he hates, criticizes the President. Why didn't he come back? Like today. The ruling party also said: "We have made this law, it is surely more right for the President to approve it than it is for us." Because he thinks we did it right. But we also agree that when he returns from the president with veto, we don't regret it as much as the opposition party does. The President has such authority, he can veto it, he can ask for a review, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its commissions will re-examine it, and he will come to a conclusion again. Whether he makes changes according to the President's request, or decides that his own law is correct, he makes the same decision again, he restores the law. The President has the same right and authority, which cannot be criticised. The House has such rights and authority, which cannot be criticised. Here's to the President's motive. Now we come to the law, we leave the other side. Mr. President says that the lawmaker must observe the balance of crime and punishment while making the law. It has to be fair, it has to be fair, it has to be fair, and for that, there have to be some definitions. Among them, the infinitive and influence of society must be taken into account the danger and the harm and the weight of the people. We have no objection here, I agree, it's true. Yeah, we should see that in the law. So, what do we object to? The President's criticism is correct, but this Law is not true in what they are called. We've been paying attention to this law. Let's start with this: is there really criminal justice here, so is there a ratio between the verb and the verb, is there a proportionality? Otherwise that law won't be fair on its own. We've all agreed that the sentence of Article 11 of Article 13 in Article 6222 was not fair, especially in Article 13 of the Law, with its power and opposition. We've come to this decision, we've come to this decision, the whole House, and it's really not fair. One person goes and robs a bank, gets 10 trillion liras, and his sentence begins in two years. In the simplest case, if there's a fix, the penalty will be five years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0421par0144	Robbing a bank starts in 20 years, Mr. Villager, extortion, robbery.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0420par0145	I'm saying he stole money from the bank.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0421par0146	That's it, not two years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0420par0147	I'm saying you stole money from the bank.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0421par0148	You're a lawyer, speak up.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0420par0149	I'm saying you stole money from the bank.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0421par0150	It's not that bad!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0420par0151	I know what's what, I didn't mention a mugging, I mentioned a robbery. He robbed the bank at night, no one knows. I'm talking about stealing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0421par0152	For God's sake, you're putting us to sleep, General Assembly. Oh, come on! You're the Deputy Commissioner of the Commission.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0422par0153	Okay, cut, cut!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0420par0154	I'm a man who knows what punishment is, what crime is what punishment is.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0421par0155	There are 100 lawyers, so don't look us in the eye and do that!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0423par0156	If you can't tell a robbery from a robbery, what should we call you at this hour?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0424par0157	Guys, let's hear it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0425par0158	Now, dear friends, this crime has been acknowledged by the entire House, where the punishment is indeed too great. And maybe there's someone who won't admit it, and I'm not saying anything to her, but the vast majority of this coven has agreed to it. Then this punishment should have been brought down. The decision was between one and three years. So, now, how do we get justice, how do we get the other issues of Mr. President's motive? If we write all of this down here, our penal code would have to be 1,500 or 2,000 articles. We can't write all of what's mentioned here on the articles of the law, and even if we write it down, there's always something out there. We'll deal with him this time. As we evaluate the law, of course, we will go to the penal code, and we will look at the general provisions of the penal code. The 61st article in the general provisions of our penal code talks about individualization of punishment. The judge pays attention to what he's doing in punishment, and I'll give it to you very briefly: the way the crime works, there are things beyond what Mr. President says -- the way it works here, the tools he uses, and the place, when the crime is committed, the intensity of the perpetrator's intent or flaw, the extent of the damage the perpetrator has done when he commits the crime, the weight, the purpose, the purpose, and so on, and so forth. We're obsessed. Why did the lower boundary fall so far? In general, everyone talks about the lower bounds of all punishments. In essence, the lower limits should be lower in terms of criminal policy. You can raise the upper limit because the judge will now decide between the lower boundary and the upper border to ensure justice; if necessary, he will give you two years, if necessary, he will give you three years. Other than that, there are other reasons for increase. Today, there are those who tie it to an event. There are also ideas to ensure that some of the people who are being investigated or prosecuted will survive. Actually, I wanted to tell you that it wasn't. It's got nothing to do with that. The judge can sentence three years, the same person or individuals -- there are other demeaning reasons here -- if the club is a board of directors, the sentence will be increased by half, and if he is a member of a criminal organization for profit, the sentence will be increased by another half. That's a fine from two and a half years to four and a half, nine years. There, he will now judge justice according to the weight of it, the state of it. Something else has been done here. In fact, perhaps that is the part of the Law that should be criticized. There is a joke set up to prove to them that the Law does not really benefit much, that it does not really have a purpose to save anyone, that the punishments cannot be converted into money, and punishments cannot be postponed, just so that one person or some people can not be saved. It cannot be decided that the declaration of the judgment should be withdrawn. Here, if they are criticized, real lawyers will criticize it. That's the main thing to criticize, but that's what's been put in this Law, which no one has the right to criticize on the other side anymore. It's been added to an additive, and the reviews need to be blocked. That's not true. The sentence of those who have committed a few, very light verbs will not be postponed here. You have to think about the consequences. These people are bound to go to jail, according to this: An athlete, a footballer, would serve eight years in prison if he had committed the crime, the simplest, if he had done it. If he's a club manager, he'll be in prison for two years, etcetera. I mean, I don't want to go into other people's details. Dear friends, I don't want to talk too much at this hour. Above this Law, of course, some friends said: "We are behind our signature. Some have said, "Why are the cracks in the AK PARTY?" I'm wondering if there really is a crack in the AK PARTY when this law is voted, and everyone will see it here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0426par0163	Thank you, Mr. Villageman. Now on behalf of the government, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Suat Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0427par0167	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the highly respected lawmakers in Sports 6222 to the prevention of Violence and Disorganisation on the amendment to Law 6250. I salute the General Assembly. Very respected lawmakers, I'm afraid this matter, which has been being debated in public for weeks, has not been discussed on the basis of the law, nor has it been discussed on a healthy basis of logic. So I'd like to express my regrets. Here, lawmakers from different parties have made their valuable contributions, shared their views with the public, but unfortunately, in the debates that have been held so far, especially in the sports community, it is within our hands to determine that a certain level of law proposal -- after legalisation -- is not considered. If this text of the law could be read, read, studied, examined, and been read in all its lines, with all its elements, and the new text of Law No. 6222 was combined, compared with the text of Law, I think there would be no mention of many of the bohs directed to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. First of all, I'd like to say -- it's an approach that severely hurts my conscience -- an approach that the Turkish National Assembly plans to change Law No. 6222, under the influence of some lobby, is a remarkable, harmful approach that hurts the conscience of the nation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey can't, can't, can't, can't be influenced by the influence of any lobby, no interest group, no gang, no mafia organization. The only force in which lawmakers from each party will be influenced here is the nation itself, the national will, and that should be noted in the record. No one's will, no one's sanity, cannot be seen or assessed above the common will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should be recorded. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, is this a proposal or a bill? There are some criticisms, there are charges against us from here, against the government. I feel the need to rephrase, not a government bill in the middle, but a bill of law. The reason why I specifically underlined this is that Law 6222 has been referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a bill. Six or seven months ago, in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the four political parties again were legalised, with their mutual will and without the use of all their rights to speak. Therefore, the government did not need to forward a new amendment today due to its transfer as a bill, because its waiting period at the Justice Department has been approximately eight months, and as of that time, the Ministry of Justice has had objections from the weight of the sentences, from the height of the sentence intervals. These objections have been expressed to the Turkish Football Federation, again represented in Sports Toto, Super League, the Association of Clubs Foundation community, but despite that, the sports community, the Federation, has had a persistent attitude towards the legalisation of this law, and, as it is now, all party groups have been visited, and the approval of the parties, along with this Law, have been passed here. As of the process, the Law itself has been recognized by the public and club administrations, where it is not practical, it is not practical. Due to the inconveniences that occurred during the application, there has been an uncertainty in many sports majors, especially in Turkey, and a desire for a change from the same sports community, from the Association of Clubs Foundation, as well as from the Football Federation's views has been made to our side. As of the period, our statement to them was: One, there's an ongoing investigation. Certain segments, certain ideas will be voiced. ▪ A special arrangement is being made for people who are special to a club, special to a person, or under investigation. • Criticism will surely be brought in. Thus, a club needs to be revealed a text containing the wet signatures of the presidents of 18 clubs under the Foundation of Clubs to avoid a direct arrangement against the corporate personality of a club or for private individuals directly related to the corporate personality of that club, so we have shared our opinion with ourselves. This signed text has been sent to our side by the Association of Clubs Foundation. Here are the presidents of Beşiktaş, Fenerbahçe, Tripolispor, Galatasaray and 14 other teams, including the presidents of 18 clubs represented in the Sports Toto Super League. The demands are: We have a common will for 18 clubs in the form of 18 clubs, since Law 6222 does not contribute to stability and football in the long term in the framework of the existing problems. And that's not going to be enough, and we've shared with them that we're not going to have a desire to change the law that we've made together as the ruling party, and we've expressed to them that the right thing is to adopt the method of enforcing Law 6222. What is it? We've told them that if the BDP, MHP, CHP, and AK PARTY groups are to be visited again, if this Law is to be changed, what the elements of this change are, where the change comes from, the groups need to be informed and persuaded. Eventually, they shared a text they had prepared with all the groups. That text then made serious changes to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Commission's intervention, the group's intervention, and eventually came up with a law proposal adopted under Law 6250. It's all we have in common. Again, I would like to reiterate that if any of the four political party groups had signed an agreement not to sign the commission or to say "We are not in the General Assembly." At the beginning, if they had not signed an agreement to accept this amendment, if any of the four party groups's deputy leaders had passed the signature, it would not have been possible to discuss the proposal in the Justice Commission and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0428par0178	We made it clear at the Justice Commission. You must be blind!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0427par0179	So from that moment on, we're gone. There's no response to saying, "We're not in the Commission" or the General Assembly stage after we've put people on the road. Another issue: The reduction of the five-to-two-year sentence limit to one-three years has been criticised, while the valued lawmakers must be evaluated and evaluated together with all the jokes of the Law. The punishment that has been sent down is the only one that can be dealt with. When this sentence is brought down, regardless of what extenuating sanctions have been brought to the new sentence range, the effort of the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be ignored, the public will be misled, a pollution of information, a disinformation. Well, it's a shame, since people have been misinformed, there are those around false convictions who believe in those ugly lobbying charges in a bunch of fingernails against our MPs. With this conviction and these accusations, with its power, with its opposition, I extol all of our MPs. There's a very important sentence here. Mr. Hakkı has also made contact, but I'm finding it helpful to underline it again. If the crimes under the law are committed by the president or members of the board of directors of the general board or executives of those operating in sports clubs or in the field of federation or sports clubs, the punishment will be increased by half if they are committed by the managers or representatives of clubs and athletes. Therefore, the one-three-year sentence limit will be up from one-and-a-half to four-and-a-half years. Another matter is a very important, very ignored, particularly public, hidden, very important sentence: a very important sentence added to 5250. Regarding the crimes involved in this clause, the decision cannot be made to postpone the release of the sentence under Article 231 of the Penal Code No. 5271. The prison sentence cannot be changed into sanctions and cannot be postponed. Therefore, a year's sentence is translated into money. There is absolutely no explanation for the good intentions, mercy, and explanation of the efforts of those who act under the judgment to escape attention. The penalty will be increased by half if the club is processed by presidents and directors or Federation heads. I have just shared the sentence with you. However, the same verb will be increased from one quarter to three percent, from one fourth to the other, which is also present here, so it is also remarkable that the punishment, which will increase by half a year from 1.5 to 4.5 years, will be increased from one quarter to three percent, while it is also evident that this is being deliberately missed from the attention of the attention. Again, there is another sentence that has been compiled here while an adjustment to the penalty period is being made, and I find it highly objectionable and wrong that it should be taken away from attention, and I also consider it a disrespectful approach to the will of Parliament. The impact of comments on our MPs out there, the influence, and so do I, and so do you, all of us, are aware of that. If convicted of the crimes described in this article, the person will also be prohibited from serving in the management and control bodies of sports clubs, federations, and persons who are engaged in sporting activities, according to Article 53 of the Turkish Penal Code. Therefore, highly respected lawmakers, it is imperative that the Law be evaluated in this framework, together with all its elements. I don't think there's anything wrong here. I certainly don't think there's an involuntary violation of the law, which is shaped by your votes, which violates the general provisions of the Constitution. As I share these issues with you, I would like to thank the President and members of the Justice Commission, who have contributed to the context of this text, and I salute you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0429par0189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the whole of the law, Kastamon MP Hakklı is a villager.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0430par0192	Mr. President, I salute everyone again. I just want to make it clear that one of the things that remains incomplete when we get here is that one of the provisions written in the Law is an anti-judgment. ▪ Punishments cannot be suspended, cannot be translated into money, and the declaration of the sentence cannot be withdrawn. However, in order to mislead the public, it is said that the initial sentence, the initial sentence, the reduction of the sentence from five years to one year, will not be carried out. Thus, a pardon would have arisen. There is a pollution of knowledge. As the new Law compares the old law with the old law, all the judgments of the Old Law are carried out together. As a result, the law applies to whichever is in favor. And since the sentence that reduces the sentence from five years to one year is in favor of the new law, which is completely unregisterable. It is carried out along with its provisions, which I submit to the public's knowledge. Thank you, good evening.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0431par0197	Congressmans, we must answer as required by Article 81 and 60 of the Civil Code. Mr. Kaplan asked for a word. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0432par0200	Mr. Secretary, you just said that we weren't going to bring this offer unless it was signed by one of the four groups. You said that I was the sole bidder in charge of the Justice Commission. I warned you, it's wrong; let's discuss it again, we'll discuss it again, and you won't do it again, we'll get our signature back, we'll protest. Look, it's in the report, it's in the report, it's in the audio. You get up now and face the entire General Assembly, even in the Commission, which is not in the General Assembly. We know in the General Assembly that the four groups that have landed here have also taken back the proposals that have been sent down by the Council of Counsellors, which has recently happened. Now, I'm asking you, clearly, in this fraud investigation, did the end of the investigation reach the AK PARTY, the MPs, the senior officials, the ministers? I'm making this very clear. How many members of the EC PARTY are involved in this investigation? Two: there are two dimensions to the indictment. One, the Turkish Penal Code 220, there are charges against organised crime, and 6222. There is now an arrangement here at 6222. There's been no change in organized crime organizations or their punishments. Do you plan to make a change in that regard, finish the job? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0433par0205	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Serindağ, Gaziantep MP.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0434par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, a while ago, in the morning programme of CNN Turk, in the Parameter, in the programme of Metehan Demir and Bilal Cetin. Before the operation, in the Sinan Erdem Gym of Gym, Mr. Prime Minister was briefed on the matter, briefed for two hours, and launched after briefing. In the following days, again, the issue was discussed in the Sunday edition of the daily Hurriyet, where two schematics were prepared, one of which was presented to the Prime Minister, and the issue was not denied. In this regard, on August 15th, a question motion has been made by Mr. Prime Minister to be answered, but so far no response has been received to our question motion. Now, I ask you again, has the Prime Minister been briefed on this? Mr. Prime Minister, shouldn't this briefing have started the operation? Wouldn't the operation have been conducted? And is this the way to give information to the Prime Minister before the operation is launched on all matters that have entered the jurisdiction of private court? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0435par0211	Thank you. Adıyaman MP Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0436par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. When I watched the following group representatives, I was amazed: Sir, why did the President use his veto rights in similar laws before, and why did he use it? Then even if he's right, we won't support the President again. I think we're making a profit wherever we come back from the mistake. The President has passed a law that is not adopted by the public, and he has said, "I cannot swallow this law." He has therefore sent it to our Parliament for a review of the law. What, there's a budget meeting schedule, and we couldn't wait until the 21st, 22, so we're smuggling stuff from the fire? We're returning this law to you in the same way over and over again at this time. I wonder if, after a month or two months, we'll make another law again. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0437par0216	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0218	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Kaplan's question was, "Who from the EC PARTY did the investigation reach?" Mr. Kaplan, there can't be too much secrecy about this anymore. The indictment is complete, it's presented to the court, everyone has information about the details, which law, which clause, according to the provisions of which crimes are involved, and everyone has information and information about what crimes are being committed to whom. I'd be sorry if you're trying to create a sense of wisdom in the minds of others, but beyond that, you know what? You're a lawyer, too. If the EC had reached out to someone from PARTI, I'm guessing it would have been known to everyone as part of an indictment that has already been brought to trial. So, I assure you, no one from the AK PARTY has reached anyone. It doesn't matter if it does or doesn't.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0439par0220	If he does, will you resign?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0221	If there is an investigative process in the legal state according to the requirements of the law, the law must be applied equally to everyone under the principle of equality in front of the law. So I didn't find it very meaningful that you ask a question that would cause further interpretation of mind tampering.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0439par0222	Don't be in such a hurry.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0223	Other than that, there are references to organized crime. Yes, that's true; there are not only references in Law 6222 about the alleged crimes, the concerned Republican prosecutor. Apart from the 6222 Law, general provisions have been issued under the Turkish Penal Code, as well as a number of criminal charges against those involved. Thus, all of this will be brought to light by the court's committee in the process of trial. ▪ Do you also intend to bring a change in the law regarding other legislation? Let me put it this way: 6250, so the amendment offer we're talking about right now is not a proposal, it's not a bill; it's not a text brought by me or brought by the AK PARTY Group. If you hadn't signed this offer, it wouldn't have come to the Justice Commission. However, as you began negotiations with the Justice Commission, I withdrew my signature, voiced my objections. Even though you said -- which is true, I was there -- you voiced your objections, stating that you withdrew your signature at the beginning. And yet, of course, it's going to be expressed here, and you saw the text, and the Club Association visited you as well. It's natural, it's necessary, it's the nature of the job. Because the Peace and Democracy Party is also the Constitution that you entered the elections on the basis of election legislation, that you built and committed your group here after you were elected as independent lawmakers. It's the need, the need, the need for democracy and the existence of free politics in this country to visit you in the same way as any party group is visited. But I would have wished that if this visit had never been promised and had never been signed, so if this bill had never been put on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Justice Commission, or if you had signed a signature, set people on the road, they believed it could be done...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0439par0225	So what's the commission and the General Assembly for, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0226	Then you shouldn't have withdrawn that objection at the Justice Commission.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0439par0227	What's the Commission and the General Assembly for?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0228	Of course, there can be contributions here, but you've signed off on a total offer, so I'd like to express it. The question of Mr. Serindağ is that the claim that the Prime Minister has been briefed is a matter that has been voiced by some media groups and some politicians since then. Mr. Serindağ, I want to assure you that every time you see Mr. Prime Minister with the Governor of Istanbul or the Chief of Police in Istanbul, please do not take offense to the fact that he has been briefed on the process of an operation. The Prime Minister is met by the governor and police chief of the province in the provinces where he has arrived, according to his duties and position. It is the same when he came to Ankara, as when he went to Istanbul, and also when he visited other cities.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0440par0230	Two hours of briefing... answer the questions correctly, two hours of briefing...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0231	He is also accompanied by the mayor and the police commissioner, as it is his duty in the provinces where he is, by the mayor and other concerned public officials of the province. Therefore, the thought of every information given to him tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the thought of an operation to be carried out next week, I'd like to say to you that I don't know you very well, that we have a mutual relationship, that we have no contact, that you have no ulterior motives, that it would be unfair to the Prime Minister and to his position. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister, who runs this country, will receive information from public officials in those provinces about the situation, the situation in those provinces, or the matters they consider necessary, but the issue that Mr. Prime Minister received before, in order or after this investigation is not about whether he received information or briefing from the Director of Security in İstanbul. You should also know that I've just stated that the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. If your claim, or the claims of journalists or commentators who claimed it, were to reflect the truth, then those commentators, or your expectations, would have required that Mr. Prime Minister not allow this operation to begin.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0440par0233	I have no expectations, I ask questions, I ask questions.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0234	So I ask you, Mr. Serindağ, not to design the framework of our politics, but to honor the opinions and explanations of relevant institutions, relevant authorities. No resource should be more respected than the state authorities of the Republic of Turkey, the official authorities. I share that thought with you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0440par0235	Then why don't you renegotiate?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0438par0236	There was a question of Mr. Firat. If two months later were needed, would there be another change of law? In fact, I don't know, I think it's necessary to ask the bidders, but as a lawyer, I would like to share my wish with you: that the law should be well spoken, very well discussed when it's done, and after many years of answering the needs of the country and the people, it should be our basic desire and goal. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0441par0238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0442par0240	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a small contribution to both the Minister and the Minister. Basically, the practice of preventing violence and disorder in sports has gone completely wrong, as the first button has been wrongly buttoned. Not just 6222, but my dear friends who are wrong, the real mistake has been since 5149, and I've said it in my interview here. We think we can fix everything in Turkey with a legal arrangement, but we don't consider whether it will be implemented or not. Look, I personally did the most intense application of this law, and I've had trouble with it. Now, in this amendment, unfortunately, because of the fact that mistakes have been going on, there is a point where every rumor is true, but what really concerns me here, Mr. Secretary, is that there are other measures to be taken to ensure that the measures set by 5149 are carried out. If you do not take them, 5149 will not be able to apply them, and mistakes will continue. The weighty agreement here is one. Second, the joint signature of 18 clubs. I believe here the consensus of the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party is very important. Besides, the new provisions... We're just looking at punishment here, guys. The decision the federations have to make on this matter is hidden. The actual punishment is described. Other than the executive punishment for a club...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0443par0247	Mr. Guler, your question?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0442par0248	I'll put you through right away.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0443par0249	What's the question?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0442par0250	Question: Will technical opportunities as Ministry of Youth and Sports be provided for the measures envisioned in Law 5149? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0443par0252	Thank you. Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0444par0254	I have to make a little correction. Mr. Secretary, it's not an offer, it's not a text brought by me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0445par0256	He doesn't own it, he's like a child left in the mosque yard.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0444par0257	You can't bring the bill, the Council of Ministers will. However, I must make a small correction in your discussion with Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0446par0259	It's not an argument.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0444par0260	▪ Did the Prime Minister know about this operation or not? Has this briefing been given? You said that the Prime Minister governs this country. You said that it is true. But now, look, it is the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on behalf of the Turkish Nation. When you look at 8 ▪, executive authority is not used on behalf of the Turkish nation, so you can't rule on behalf of the Turkish nation because you run the country, and that's not the executive authority. The authority to conduct it says that it is used in accordance with the law and the constitution. It means that I, the Prime Minister, will do anything. It doesn't mean anything. Law and judgment are in the name of the Turkish nation, and the authority to conduct it is carried out according to the Constitution and the law. For him, whether you're Prime Minister or not, if you get 90 percent of the vote, you'll do it in accordance with the law. That's the deal. Let's settle it here. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0447par0262	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0264	Yes, Mr. President, thank you. First of all, the question of Mr. Güler is not about Law 6222, or Law 6250, but of course, it is the primary duty of all executive agencies and units, especially us. Here, of course, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which law enforcement is supposed to do, is not going to do first, but ultimately, the duties run by law enforcement will, of course, be carried out in the responsibility of the administration. We will strive to be followers of this, and it is our primary goal for all of us to be able to implement the provisions of the legislation, with the urgency of all the regulations envisioned in the law, with the federation, with the lack of the club by the clubs. I'd like to move to the question of Mr. Tütin, Mr. Slim, 8 and 7. There is also a 6th article before: no one or any institution, the body, or the source of its origin, can use a state authority that is not clearly specified in the Constitution. So I agree with one of your sentences. It is not possible for the Prime Minister and Mr. President to be able to use a state authority that is not explicitly specified in the Constitution and the laws of the public official. The Constitution, which binds both the Prime Minister and the President and the members of the Council of Ministers, is the Constitution. Just as the same Constitution that binds the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are the Civil Charter, none of us are free to act outside these texts. No one is secular, no one is irresponsible. Public executives, those who run the state, of course, are not irresponsible. Your identification is correct. Legislative authority is used for the Turkish nation, and judicial authority is used for the Turkish nation as well. Under the executive authority, the use of executive authority has not been required for the Turkish nation's name, since the executive body has already been removed from the legislature and is subject to the control of the legislature, and it is imperative to design the actions and procedures according to the provisions of the Constitution, which are adopted by the legislature or by the legislature. When you approach this vessel, yes, there's not much difference between what you're saying and what I'm saying, but the difference is that Mr. Prime Minister was given pre-op information and that this operation was carried out under the Prime Minister's orders? I want to make it clear to you that if I take it as a question, Mr. Prime Minister and his government are well aware of how his duties and powers were described in the Constitution. The Prime Minister and his government conduct administrative actions and austerities concerning Turkey within the framework of the Constitution's rulings, freedom and restrictions. Other than that, it's out of the question that we can adopt a form of action.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0449par0268	Same thing, Mr. Secretary, same thing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0269	I've actually just answered Mr. Serindağ's question. I told Mr. Prime Minister that it was wrong, unhealthy to associate any information with a possible operation. There is no information for the Prime Minister here. In the eyes of the law, you see, the law force here is not in an act of itself. The actions and procedures of the law enforcement force are being carried out under the instructions of the prosecutor's office. Therefore, since this is the practice reality that we all know, it certainly won't take any of us to go into some of the search by means of force. And I'd like to make it clear to you that there's a law proposal here that comes in agreement with the parties. The one who came with the parties' agreement...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0450par0270	We don't have an agreement, Mr. Secretary, we don't have an agreement.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0271	Mr. Kaplan has withdrawn his signature from the Justice Commission.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0450par0272	BDP doesn't have one. Underline that. For God's sake!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0451par0273	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0274	Okay, I'm telling you, Mr. Kaplan has withdrawn his signature from the Justice Commission. Right now, according to the signatures of the Republican Movement Party, Republican People's Party and Justice and Development Party Deputy Justice and Development Party, there is a 6250 Law where we continue to negotiate, in line with their signatures. When I look at this Law, I see that Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Mr. State Garden, they have stated that if the same text came with the same text and insisted on the text, they are behind all provisions of Law 6250.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0452par0275	Mr. Secretary, I regret asking. If I'd known you guys were gonna talk so much, I swear I wouldn't have asked.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0276	Mr. Kilicdaroğlu, Chairman of the People's Party of the Republic, Mr. Tüt, who was sent back to Law 6250, which was sent back by Mr. President when Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0452par0277	I took it back, I swear I took it back.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0278	You got it back, but I can't stop it. I have to finish it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0452par0279	Just don't talk, I swear I got it back.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0280	Mr. Kilicdaroglu has also expressed his opinion that his current co-existence to Law 6250 is ongoing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0452par0281	I promise I won't ask you again.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0448par0282	In this parallel, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, our Group Presidents, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, also declared that they were behind this Law, along with the opposition. And yet, I still don't quite understand why it's necessary to answer this question-and-answer process. In this framework, valuable lawmakers, if there's a consensus, it's 2:30, we all have to do what we need to do in accordance with this agreement. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Mr. President, if there are no further questions, I salute you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0453par0287	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0454par0288	Mr. President, I want to fix it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0453par0289	Excuse me, sir, twenty minutes of QA is over. I'm sorry. Talks have been completed on all of the Law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0454par0291	Mr. President, I want word on Article 69.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0453par0292	Please, sir, it's full...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0454par0293	I want words according to Article 69, according to Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0455par0294	Give it to me, or you'll have to give it to me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0454par0295	According to Article 69... a different view of the government, commission, political party group or lawmakers...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0456par0296	I'll give you a minute to hold him down. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0454par0298	Not a minute, let me just finish up, and then...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0456par0299	Sir, finish there.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0454par0302	Mr. President, in the middle of February, let's give you the exact date. On February 17th, Özgener and St. Yıldırım made the phone call shift into the investigation, took it to a different level. Let's face it, St. Lightning wasn't easy. With Turkey's largest group of supporters in the target, Istanbul Police felt the need to inform Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. At the end of a busy day, Chief Governor Hüseyin Çapkın himself presented the file to the Prime Minister at the Halic Convention Center for his schedule in Istanbul. Information was given to the prime minister, considering the social and social consequences of the operation. One meeting, never to be seen again. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0457par0306	Thank you. He's in custody, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0458par0308	Who says that?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0459par0309	You've made up your mind. You've made it up to me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0457par0315	Talks have been completed on all of the Law. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. SPOR CONTINUES VICTIMS OF VICTIM AND SERVITY Law No. 6250 Acceptance Date: 24/11/2011 MADDE 1-31/3/2011's article No. 6222's Article 11 of the 11th Amendment to the prevention of Violence and Disorganisation in Sports has been changed from five to twelve years, from one year to three years, from the fourth joke (b) in the following way, with the following jokes added to the article. ίb) By the president or members of the general board or board of directors, technical or administrative executives and managers of clubs and athletes who operate in the field of sports or in the Federation or sports clubs, In connection with the crimes involved in this clause, the decision cannot be made to reverse the release of the sentence under Article 231 of Penal Code 5271, dated 4/12/2004; the prison sentence cannot be changed into alternative sanctions and cannot be postponed. (10) If the crimes described in this article are committed at different times under the execution of a criminal verdict, the punishment for the most severe sentence will be increased from one quarter to three-quarter, to one sentence. (11) If the person is sentenced to punishment for the crimes described in this clause, he shall also be prohibited from serving in the management and control bodies of sports clubs, federations, and persons operating in sports activities within the scope of Article 53 of the Turkish Penal Code. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0460par0328	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I said morning prayer, and thanks to you, it's going to hit the noon prayer because there are three party groups signing under this offer, three party groups talking, and all three of them hitting each other. So they brought this offer, the owner of the proposal is gone, like the boy who was left in the mosque, and I don't know him. He says he doesn't know him. The Prime Minister is making noise from the hospital bed, and then suddenly there's the crack sound, and he's got the kid, the government, the Minister, the AKP, and now, on their side, the CHP, the MHP, they're going to question themselves, but we all have to do a conscience accounting this morning. Look, all of you, if you don't do a conscience check on this issue, this fix, this incentive, this mob thing, these organized crime cases, these networks, these debates, you're going to see them all the time in the next three elections because public conscience is arguing, it's uncomfortable, it's very serious information errors. He's always making one of those mistakes. It says: "All parties offer." It was the bill before, and it came and came with a compromise on all Federation clubs, 6222. It was before the election, and no one even talked about it. Yeah, he came out of the fire like he was smuggling stuff, and no one talked. This law is now spoken after the investigations. So, what's the rush? You discussed this last night, after the President's veto, you rushed in this morning, and without the Council of Counsellor's decision, you violated eight hours of the Civil Code, you violated it. What's the hurry? What's the rush of smuggling from this fire? Guys, there's two studies on this, which are both not new. I'll make it very clear to you both and to my sincere feelings and to my concerns, why should the offer be renegotiated? I will now explain to you what we call the subject. First of all, there's a report on a council research commission on sports. My new friends may not have it, but make sure you take it and read it, folks. When you get this, you'll see the proposals in this, and you'll see that Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan is also a member of parliament who makes a motion to investigate. Not only that, but, again, other than Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, you can see here that the BDP group's deputy presidents also have a motion. Now, Congress investigated this issue, researched violence, researched the problems of the clubs, talked about all of them, did polls, and eventually made some very serious assessments. This report is completely... when you look at it as a date, March 2011. April 13, that's the law. Mind you, there's three weeks in between, three weeks in between, after this report. Now, in this report, the defendants of today's fraud investigation have come and expressed their views on this Parliamentary Commission, and they have their statements. From St. Yıldırım to the Football Federation, from the Football Federation to the sports writers, everyone's talked, so it's not as if everything has not been investigated. Polls have been done, questions have been asked, and answers have been asked, and everyone's being deterred... and I'm not going to read it one by one, but I'm going to show you, they all have effective measures, deterrent measures, legal measures, increased punishments. The government brought this draft with the law and the European law that brought it to the government. Now, this was first discussed here as number 80 on the day he came to the House. Our attitude, our opposition is clear in the Commission phase, then clear in the parliamentary phase, and here a minister of the government, who withdraws proposals that have been brought down to the General Assembly, is constantly being discussed by the decision of all parties in chorus everywhere, and by the Council of Counsellors' decision today, he said. The advisory board consists of four party groups, and we're out. There are four signatures in this proposal, three of them. Stand behind these signatures, stand up straight, speak clearly, be clear, and come out in every article, and explain your views in everything. I'd like everyone to talk here. Mr. Shamil Tayyar, Mr. Bulent Arinc, I believe there are a lot of MPs in the AK PARTI that say, "My conscience is uncomfortable." I have only one thing to warn of, and I have plenty of time, and We have a plan in every article. I said the morning prayer, and thanks to you, he will hang out at noon prayer. Look, from now on, we're talking about this law, there's sports clubs, there's Federation, there's organized mafia, there's justice, there's politics, there's police, and there's a moment in the law where an offer that's being made on a circle like a grabber is being tried to put Turkey to sleep while a citizen sleeps in the morning. Of course, I'm an innocent lawyer, and I'm Deputy Director of the Group of a party with 9,000 members taken into custody in TK investigations, almost 5,000 of whom are under arrest. But it might be time to get up here and tell the truth. The indictment was announced today. Mr. Secretary, in this indictment, there are leaders of criminal organizations, and according to the Turkish Penal Code 220, there are allegations, there are phone calls they're talking about, there are injustices. Mr. Canikli, deputy leader of the group, is also mentioned, as is your member of parliament in Skopjedar, and the name of the Federation Vice President you appointed to the Federation is mentioned, and many of the government's savings are mentioned. Now, I, here, with Mr. Canikli, have spoken on the phone with a claim, a statement, which is natural, in a small province, to be a member of that province, where it is called. I can't say that the government itself, the government, the ministers, the Federation presidents and vice presidents appointed by the government, the club managers, and the very serious criminal organization charge. Mr. Governor, the Governor of Istanbul is here, starting in Germany in 2009, starting with the games and games of chance, based on mafia relations, the operation in Germany is coming to find Turkey. Governor, is it or isn't it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0461par0338	It's done.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0462par0339	Governors can't come in here, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0460par0340	No, I'm talking about 2009.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0462par0341	Deputies come in here. How does the governor get in?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0460par0342	No, I'm talking to the governor of 2009.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0463par0344	Mr. Kaplan, your time is up, sir. Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0348	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. The reason why I took the oath, or the reason I took the word of the group, is because I just mentioned Mr. Kaplan's name...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0351	Your name is mentioned in the indictment, not me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0352	He used a statement that my name was mentioned in this indictment. Now, of course, when you use a phrase like that, people think of a lot of things. What do you mean?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0353	The indictment...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0354	Listen, listen, listen... listen... you made a bet, listen.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0355	It's in the indictment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0356	Now, people can think of anything, anything. You're saying, "Here's what you're saying, you've got the gang leader, you've got the politicians, you've got the Deputy Director of the Group."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0357	I read it without indictment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0358	And that's it, nothing else. Right now, the entire indictment is here, 401 pages of indictment. There's my name in there somewhere. It goes like this: Two former Giresunspor presidents' phone calls, such as Mr. Omar Ülku and Mr. Osman Apprentice, are on the phone, and one of the presidents is saying: "The administration has been postponed twice, you didn't leave me. You left because Mage Aydın Peker threatened you. Omer Abi, nobody knows about this. Everyone knows that you were threatened in Giresun because of him, so you said so, and you said so to the governor, and you said so to Nurettin Canikli, and you told him, and he threatened me. Now, the claim is that one of them says he's been beaten up by a man named, and the other says, "You went and complained to the governor, so you went to the governor and complained that you had been beaten up, and you went to Nurettin Canikli. That's the bet. That's... that's the whole point. What is this, Mr. Kaplan? What is this?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0359	Ten, 20 bets.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0360	Look, you're making a point here, you're making a point here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0361	It's in the indictment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0362	Going out and getting involved in an indictment can mean anything in the law.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0363	But it's... you're in the indictment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0464par0364	Look, when an honorable person makes a claim like this, he presents it with all its clarity, its nudity. Not like this, it's a shame. And you say you're a lawyer, that's a lawyer.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0365	You're filing an indictment. That's no way to be a lawyer, that's just a law-enforcement terrorist. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Federation Deputy appointed by the government...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0466par0369	That's the whole bet.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0370	But you say it's gone.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0466par0371	Get out, then tell me, that's how you're named.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0372	Is the Federation Deputy accused or not appointed by the government?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0466par0373	What kind of logic is that? What kind of congresswoman is that? What kind of person is that? Shame on you! Embarrass and apologize from here, apologize to the entire nation.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0465par0374	You're in the indictment. The accused will apologize.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0466par0375	That's no way to behave! That's no way to behave! I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0467par0378	He's insulting her, let him take it back!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0379	You're in the indictment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0469par0380	Please... please... Why don't you take your seats?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0469par0383	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0384	Mr. President, as I was speaking here, I told you that your name was mentioned in today's indictment, and that's it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0470par0386	You sound like the defendant.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0387	Mr. President, secondly, let me make it clear that if I may...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0471par0389	By all means, please take the stand, but say his name came up as he explained it, and let's just drop it, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0390	It's in the indictment...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0471par0391	But you know, in a minute... so you can tell me that that's what your name was on the indictment when I read it. I mean, say it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0392	Look, Mr. President, everyone here will hear what you're saying, it's one. Listen, don't jump... I didn't write Mr. Canikli's name in the indictment, the prosecutors wrote it, one. I've read this indictment online, all of you, open it or don't you? I'm saying there's an indictment. I didn't say he was a defendant, I didn't say he was.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0472par0394	Is that how you say it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0395	I'm saying it's in the indictment, and I'm saying one more thing: I'm saying that even the Federation Vice President appointed by the government is the accused there, and I'm even saying that others are the accused, and there are the chosen ones in your party, and I'm saying that the accused are...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0473par0396	The Federation Vice President cannot be appointed, he is elected.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0397	Look, I'm saying something, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0474par0398	Please apologize, Mr. Kaplan, not like this. Shame, shame!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0399	Mr. Canikli, you stand up and insult me on this stand, threaten me, and you must take back those words.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0474par0400	Look, if you don't take it back... I'm telling you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0401	You will receive according to the Civil Code. Did you or did you not take part in the indictment? I'm saying you did. I don't think you should be in the indictment...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0474par0402	I told you in the indictment how it happened.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0403	Why are you going out?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0474par0404	Is that the way it is? Is that the way it's gonna be in the indictment? He's a defendant in the indictment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0405	Look, I'm pointing out the sensitivity of a process here. Mr. President, think about this a little bit more. When he says, "Why are we in such a hurry?" What's the rush, seeing you last night and bringing this in this morning? What's the rush? Can't we talk about this in a healthier, calmer way? It's 11 o'clock. We started working at 00, now it's 3:00 in the morning. Look, we're talking under unhealthy circumstances. Look, we're making an unhealthy law. These laws have been made unsanitary before, and here we have to discuss them all, we have to talk...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0475par0408	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0409	But if you think that when we speak the truth, you're going to come from this stand and insult us, curse us, threaten us, and put your trust in the majority of us and silence us...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0476par0410	I'm not insulting you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0475par0411	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0412	Do not attempt him, or do not attempt him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0475par0415	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0416	Not enough of your power to keep us quiet...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0475par0417	Point taken.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0418	Not enough to scare us.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0475par0420	Mr. Kaplan, please... please, just a minute...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0421	Mr. President, I demand that Mr. Canikli withdraw his promise.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0477par0422	You're the one who should be apologizing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0423	Otherwise, according to the Civil Code 163...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0478par0424	It's a misunderstanding...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0425	There's no misunderstanding.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0479par0426	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0427	Yeah, there's clearly a threat.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0479par0429	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0430	Mr. President, follow the disciplinary provisions according to 163. Even if he's the vice president of the group, he can't insult a group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0479par0431	Mr. Kaplan, please take your seat.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0468par0432	You can't insult me, you can't threaten me, you can't...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit07spe0479par0436	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the negotiations of Law 103. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer on the matter.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0480par0006	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I have a question about the procedure, but...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0008	No questions on matter. There's a motion, I'm having it read...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0481par0010	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0011	I'm having your motion read, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0481par0012	No, sir, no!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0013	Quietly, I beg you...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0481par0014	We have a request for a procedure.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0015	Mr. Kaplan, sit down, and then...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0481par0016	Mr. President, regarding the procedure...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0017	We'll look at the records, we'll respond, sit down. I'll have the records brought in, please sit down. We would like to propose and propose that the first clause of the proposed law, number 103, be removed from the proposal. Hasip Kaplan Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık Justice Kurt Erol Dora Sırrıyya Leader Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0482par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0026	Government?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0483par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0479par0028	Motionary, please, sir. [[Remove the bar from the AK PARTY rows.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0031	Mr. President, there's a Civil Code here, and it says how to run the House. If a member of parliament from this bench insults, threatens, and continues to make this threat, Mr. President must act in accordance with Articles 67 and 160. The fact that the party you've been chosen to represent is not an obstacle to your neutrality. Look, you're wearing tails and tuxedos, you've taken off your AKP badge, and you're supposed to be a neutral president. If he thinks he's going to hold us back here because you have a lot of strength, because you have a lot of strength, because you have a lot of brute strength, you're wrong; two, we have the right to threaten and insult from this platform. He says, "We have a lot of it, it's a profit for us. If you say it, you're wrong there too. Now, Mr. President, I've spoken about the motion, and I've been on this bench, and I said, "Do what you need to do," but you acted as if nothing had happened in this Assembly General Assembly, not threatened from this bench, not cursed from this stand. That, Mr. President, is not your right. Your attitude is worrying. Your attitude has been questionable before. With your attitude, there's no way you can continue this process. Please step aside, Mr. President. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] If you're not doing what you need to do, please step aside. We invite you. You've lost your neutrality. In one, you did the main opposition, and now you're treating another opposition as if nothing had happened. No one, in this House, has the right to threaten, insult, or insult the elected lawmakers on this stand, because of their opinion, which is contrary to what they say on the stand. People don't give you the right to insult and threaten. What if he's nice?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0485par0037	You're the one who insulted me. You're the one who did the beating.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0038	Mr. stenographers, please record these nobilitys in their mouths properly, and please pass by writing their names, not in the APP order, but in the picture.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0486par0039	Would you be proud if the glass you broke came and smashed into people's faces?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0040	As soon as you start bullying and bullying from this stand...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0487par0041	You're the bully.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0042	You're no better than organized crime syndicates, mobsters, gangbangers and coupgers. You will pay attention to this boundary.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0488par0043	Who broke the glass and threw it in my face? Who broke that glass and threw it in my face?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0044	I didn't throw a glass in your face, one, I broke my ambition.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0488par0045	You threw it in my face, it was here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0046	Two, Mr. President, please call it in, do as you're told. You're the Council of...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0489par0048	Where did you throw that glass?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0049	This isn't a place to run like organized crime.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0490par0050	You check your behavior first.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0484par0051	This isn't a place to be led by violence, like gangbangers and coupgers do. What you've done here is wrong and unlawful... please go out or apologize or do what the President has to do, and do what he has to do as the Civil Code. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] We will not bow down before you, nor bow down before you, neither will we be silent before you; but we will continue to cry out the truth. Whoever's involved, who's involved, who's involved in organized crime, who's involved in all kinds of organized activities, whoever he is, wherever he goes, we're going to stand on him, and we're going to follow him with courage. No one gets hurt by that. No one should be offended by this without fear of it. But this Civil Code wasn't just about us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do as you must, Mr. President, or step aside.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0491par0057	Mr. President, apologize first. He needs to apologize to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0058	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, may I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0493par0059	Mr. President, I'll discuss the matter.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0060	Congressmans, would you allow me to read the report on the incident? ▪ Hasip Kaplan (Sharnaq) is in the indictment. Nurettin Canikli (Secondly) is not such a lawyer. That makes him a law-enforcement terrorist. Hasip Kaplan is your Federation deputy appointed by the government. Nurettin Canikli (Presisting), that's all there is to it. Then tell me. This is your name. Say it. What kind of logic is that? What kind of congresswoman is that? What kind of person is that? Shame on you! Shame on you and apologize. Apologize to the entire nation. That's no way to behave. That's no way to behave. I salute you all. Hasip Kaplan, these allegations, you stood on the stand and threw the glass on the stand.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0494par0067	I broke it... I didn't throw it, I broke it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0068	Look, you broke it, you smashed it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0494par0069	If I threw it, I'd throw it at him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0070	Please... you broke it, you smashed it, you didn't throw it in his head, but it could have happened to anyone.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0495par0071	He threw the pieces at me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0072	One second, sir... one second... See what it says in the 160th article: these are the conditions of the Civil Code: 1. Two warnings in the same combination, but not giving up on the action required; 2. Three warnings in one month. 3. To utter rude and hurtful words and to act; 4. Attacking; 5. Leading a mass movement in parliament to cause noise and strife or to prevent Parliament from carrying out its duties. Now, what you're doing is...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0080	Well...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0081	Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0082	What move? The law terrorist, he says, says it's immoral...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0083	What you did, you broke the glass on the stand and you walked up to it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0084	You're watching, he says, "The law terrorist."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0085	One moment, sir... please... please... one second...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0086	You're watching, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0087	They held you against your will, and you came at him.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0088	You're watching from there.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0089	Now I ask you to plead guilty. Please take the stand.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0090	No... I want a word about your attitude. I'm starting a formal debate. You...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0091	He's gone, you can't do that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0092	You're supposed to be defending...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0093	There's nothing to be done there.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0094	You can't build an inquisition court here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0095	There's nothing to be done there. Please give your defense. Please... please give your defense.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0096	You can't build an inquisition court here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0097	No, I'm not setting up a Supreme Court.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0098	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0099	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0496par0100	I'm opening up a procedural debate according to 69. I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0497par0101	The formal debate... what are you opening up the legal debate about? The President is acting according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0102	Yes, my dear friends...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0498par0103	Mr. President, I'd like to present something.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0492par0104	Of course, sir. You can make your case, Mr. Sureyya Commander, please. In five minutes, please.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0499par0107	We introduced the first violence to the Law on Avoiding Violence in Sports. Good luck with that. [[You infected the AK PARTY.]] Excuse me, excuse me. There's no one going anywhere, we talk, you talk, as long as these tensions don't get in the way. Mr. Speaker... [[From the AK PARTY rows, don't do it!]] Karsh, I know, and you know it, so just give me a minute. Mr. Speaker has read the transcripts from one point forward, it's true. If we rewind the film one more time, we'll all be relieved, and there won't be any need, and this is what Mr. Hasip Kaplan said here: Mr. Canikli. Didn't he then add this phrase, my friend, that you were all here? There are such things as politics in the country, he said. People are involved in these things, they're mentioned, they're called, they're called, they're called, they're coming to all of us, they're coming to us. Now, for God's sake, when I make this statement, I'm asking the Speaker of the House, if we could just explain that part of the reports and what Mr. Hasip Kaplan said, and maybe this would be a thing, they'd embrace it, and we'd consider it a thing that didn't happen. Excuse me, excuse me. I'm telling you again, if he says: "The name of the Secret Leader is mentioned in the indictment." And then he says: "Ya, the second district of Istanbul is such a place." I personally would not do any injury, any accusation, any suizan thing to myself.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0500par0113	Politicians' names are mentioned, law enforcement's names are mentioned.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0499par0114	Excuse me. Now, friends, for example, Mr. Canicli, I'm counting on your imagination and your conscience and your common sense. So having to defend things you don't believe in at this time of night, tomorrow morning, 11 again. It's at 00, 00,
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0501par0116	Let go of what you're defending.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0502par0117	Leave them alone.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0501par0118	Don't be an agitator.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0119	Why should we let it go? Why is he getting nervous?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0502par0120	Why are you speaking for us?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0121	Mr. Canicli will sing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0502par0122	Don't speak for us.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0504par0123	Mr. President, aren't you going to intervene?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0124	Mr. Canikli, I'm asking you, if a preacher says that this is mentioned, but...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0504par0125	Easy, easy...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0505par0126	How do you recommend calm, breaking glasses? Now you're telling me to calm down.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0127	Is there such a thing as doing politics on the ground?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0506par0128	Look, the point is clear. There's no mention of that because there's nothing there. So when you say it, it's like he's in on it. He knows that very well himself.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0129	Mr. Canikli, you can't...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0506par0130	I mean, all of a sudden...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0131	You have the right to be on the stand, see, my name comes up, but that's the way it goes. It's just, if anyone's trying to tell you anything about it, it'll embarrass him. It's as simple as that. That's why he's a law-enforcement terrorist...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0507par0132	Why is everything always so simple with us? Why don't you just love God?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0133	It's like... it's like a no-good thing, you know?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0508par0134	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0509par0135	He says it's rude, he doesn't say it's immoral; it's immoral.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0136	Well, that's the same as indecency. For him, it's me, Mr. President, and the General Board.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0510par0137	If a politician can't control his temper there...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0138	No doubt.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0510par0139	If he can't control himself, if he can throw and break the glass there, what's the defendive side of it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0140	Mr. Vice President, we need to take a look inside. Of course, there's no defense to it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0511par0141	You're the first to tell the people who are with you not to swear, not to say anything, not to say anything about a criminal terrorist.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0142	I mean, it's legitimate, it throws it away. I'm not saying that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0512par0143	Does it require out of control? Does it require uncontrollability?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0144	Excuse me.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0513par0145	So you're just supposed to say something like that?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0512par0146	Politics is control, politics is quiet.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0147	Mr. Vice President, this isn't just something that started with Hasip Kaplan. I mean, let's just pretend it didn't happen.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0513par0149	No, no!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0503par0150	Well, Mr. General Assembly, let's do it then; well, then let's do it. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0513par0152	Mr. President, I'm opening a legal debate on your administration according to 63.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0514par0154	What are you gonna do with it?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0515par0155	Now let him go, just a second...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0516par0156	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0517par0157	No, sir, no! Now, we've had a demand for your attitude before. I'd like to open a formal debate.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0515par0158	You can open it later, sit down for a minute.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0517par0159	Sir, the first attack...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0515par0160	Sir, one second... before you, a Deputy Director of the Group asked for a word. Have a seat, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0517par0161	Mr. President, do the right thing.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0515par0162	Sit down, please, sit down.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0517par0163	First you listen to him who insults you, and then you begin with his argument.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0515par0164	Sit down, please, sit down. Here you go. Three minutes, please, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, from time to time we can be in this harshness. When I'm tough, I'm always mad at myself in the morning because I'm so tough and I'm not smart. And every once in a while, when I say those words with the intelligence in them, I say, "Well, I did my job better yesterday. From time to time, all politicians have questioned themselves, and we've all experienced it. Look, let me tell you something that happened in this House. I think it's the smartest move in history. One day, someone comes up to the stand and says, "Half of this assembly is a fraud."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0519par0170	The late Osman Ascension Passed...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0171	After that, Mr. President, let him apologize, he insulted the High Council. He comes to the bench and says, "I'm sorry, Mr. President, half of this House is not a fraud." [[Laughter]] Now, look, Mr. Canikli, I think you've been wronged. Your name isn't exactly mentioned in that indictment. We're all going through this. The thief's looking for us, the crook's looking for us, for all we know, a lot of people are looking for us, we're going through this.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0520par0174	No calls, no calls.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0175	Now, something happened, he called the congressman, he called the governor, he was threatened, your name was mentioned there. I'm just asking you to empathize. I think you've been wronged here today, but there are thousands in this country that have been wronged. Well, let me tell you something: two people are talking, two people's phone records are going to the media, my name is going on in two people's conversations, just like you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0521par0177	That's it, that's it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0178	Like him, I don't have any bullets in the case, my photos were printed for days. That's not true, but you're the one who's gonna figure it out.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0522par0179	It's not the congressman who's been suppressing them.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0180	I'm a congressman, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0522par0181	It's not the MP who's pushing him, but it's the congressman who says different here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0182	Mr. Elitaş, you see, in that indictment, as far as it's concerned, Mr. Canikli doesn't exist. What's he saying? It's not a mix-up. I mean, you're out of your depth here. I'm sorry, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0523par0184	So he gives you the right to insult me?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0185	No, wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0523par0186	Does that give you the right to swear?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0187	But you made a suggestion, as if the Canic was involved.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0524par0188	That's exactly what we understood.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0189	I came here to tell the truth. I don't tell the truth... but, look, you're the ruling party, it's your job to solve this problem. There are thousands, tens of thousands of people in this community convicted, hurt in the eyes of society, broken in pride, you should know that. Yeah, well, that's not true. Look, if you want to do this, we'll talk to everyone, politicians, everyone can call us, and we'll see everyone... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's nothing wrong with that. Can you give me one more minute?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0525par0194	Yeah, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0195	Let's lower the pressure a little. Mr. Hasip Kaplan may have been angry at that moment, but the glass broke here, I saw it, until Mr. Mahir Ünal.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0526par0197	He threw...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0198	No, he didn't. Let's not exaggerate there.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0526par0199	He threw it away, he threw it away.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0200	No, he broke the glass.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0527par0201	It was on the table.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0518par0202	He jumped... so he didn't throw it at Mr. Mahir Ünal on purpose, and I saw that, and we have to tell the truth here. We shouldn't put any sense into it here, and that wasn't true. Let's lower the pressure a little bit, and by violence in sports, I mean a step back from violence in politics. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0528par0205	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0529par0206	Mr. President, I demand a brief word from Mr. Muharrem under your promise.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0528par0207	Your Honor, may I have your blessing? [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0530par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we don't have to agree on everything, we can think differently, we can express our different thoughts in our own way, but it's not the end of the world -- it's not the end of all friendships and obligations. Mr. Hasip Kaplan and his party may be against this law, especially by doing a conscience accounting, by weighing these MPs, even the ruling figures of political parties, is not a very elegant event, Mr. Commander. These MPs, they have character and dignity, they will vote on their own will. Whether the law passes or doesn't pass, it's no use to agitate the issue by accusing political parties by blaming them. We can't find it innocent or reasonable. It's not like us to be here. These aren't good. I also wish that Mr. Canikli had a statement of his own that would be beyond his intent, that he would say, "It is a word that exceeds the purpose of this word against the Parliament and against Mr. Hasip Caplan. I take it back." Please, you can be against this law, the world heard you against it, all your constituents heard it, all of Turkey heard it. All those against this law may be behind you, but you have to leave it here. What's the use of turning this into a war? What good is turning it into a vendetta, Mr. Kaplan? Therefore, let us complete these talks with respect to the will of the people, and to the person of the House, and if we end up fighting like this before we can complete it, we will be disrespectful to ourselves. You may be against it, you may be against it, you say it at morning prayer, you say it at noon prayer, you say it as a joke, but it turns out you have another decision. Let's give it up, let's make a result together in a way that suits the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in a way that suits our personalities, personalities, names, as opponents, as allies. So I'd like to start with Mr. Canikli, as well as ignore these events, so please come and...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0531par0214	If Mr. Kaplan apologizes, I take it back.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0530par0215	Okay, so let's leave it to Hasip Kaplan, who, by his own discretion, sir... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he apologizes, it's his own will, and I don't think it's right for him to have his defense taken according to 160. Let's come and settle the matter and get on with it. I mean, people don't expect us to fight, they expect us to get results. In the end, as the National Party of Action, I'll give our reason, and I'll give our opinion, but until we reach that point, I invite everyone to be discreet, to act in peace, to act responsible. I pay my respects to everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0532par0221	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0532par0223	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. You have three minutes.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0225	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're really having unpleasant events this early in the morning. You can object to a law, you can object to the popularism of this law, you can act according to the behavior of different parts of the community, but when you object to this law, it's not in any way in the indictment, it's not in this relationship, it's in a different way that a person mentioned between the two people's phone calls as if he were in the indictment, and it's in small cities, adding ornaments to it, but when you come after him and you bring him to another point, you don't think you have good intentions. I'm listening here. I didn't read the indictment, nor did I see it at all, but Mr. Kaplan is here, and Mr. Canikli is in the indictment. That's when I thought about it. Nuretti Canikli is also involved in this fraud case, and I thought Giresunspor is already involved in it, and Nurettin is here. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, what you did was, frankly, an unlawful act, a procedure a politician shouldn't have done. You didn't mean that in good faith. Your way of saying it was completely different, to stretch it out, and you said it elsewhere, that a group of vice presidents had been in the indictment, and you said it in the question. Here we know what important people, ministers, relatives are, and in time we will tell you. You've already set this up.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0534par0229	How do you know?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0230	You asked the question. That's what you asked the Minister when you asked him. It's not that I don't know.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0534par0231	The question is clearly in the transcripts, I didn't ask.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0232	When you look at the records, you ask who's in it, who's affected, but as a lawyer, if you're a good lawyer, if you believe in your profession, if you have faith, if you have respect, you don't have to say what you're doing here -- it's like an excuse. Simplest, even people who don't know the law don't talk like that. This is what I want from you. Our fellow co-chairs want it to be quiet, but I would like to say, just as you left it to slander, you have it in this indictment. He said, "This is outrageous." He said, "This is outrageous."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0534par0233	He said he was a dirty man, he said he was a law-enforcement terrorist. If you have it in you, let us use it on you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0234	Look, you know what law is. You know what it's like to be in law enforcement. You couldn't stand him, you came in, you threw this glass and you put it on the stand.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0534par0235	I've broken my ambition because now you're implementing a majority of persecution, a majority of cruelty.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0236	After that, you couldn't take your ambition, so you threw the pieces this way. You couldn't bear to think of an adjective, an adjective for you, but here in a matter that Turkey is talking about, a Group Vice President, a representative of a political party... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you claimed the representative of 326 people in a way that would leave a pile in their heads. How can he stand him, Congressman, how can he stand this Group Vice President? Why don't you empathize?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0534par0239	By swearing, threatening, insulting?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0240	Mr. Commander, why don't you tell your friend to empathize? What our friend here said was that he broke the glass and couldn't take his ambition to the AK PARTY Group...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0534par0242	I hurt myself, I didn't hurt anyone. You're so cruel, you're so cruel.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0243	...by attacking and throwing these parts here, but here you see the slander, the representative of 326 people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to insult a member of parliament who has received 50 per cent of the vote from this nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0535par0247	Mr. Elitaş, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0248	Mr. President, let me finish my final sentences.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0535par0249	Mr. Elitaş, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0250	Mr. President, I recommend that Mr. Kaplan should come here. I hurt Mr. Nurettin Canikli, I hurt the AK PARTY group. I apologize for those words. Mr. Canikli, on the other hand, should say: "I've used word that exceeds my purpose, that exceeds my will, that Mr. Kaplan should apologize to the Turkish nation here."
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0536par0252	What else, what else?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0253	Turkey must apologize to the Grand National Assembly because it broke a glass on the stand. So far, water has been thrown at someone, but for the first time on the stand, the glass has been broken and the violence has been attempted. The glass fragments here, the AK PARTY, attempted to launch against the ruling group. I recommend it because it's the only way it can be solved. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0537par0256	Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0538par0257	Take a break, Mayor.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0533par0258	Mr. President, if you're taking a break, I'll see you or we'll move on.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit08spe0537par0259	I'm taking a five-minute break, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0537par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law 103. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. I submit the motion to your votes: [[What motion is the voice of the EC PARTY?]] I submit to your votes the motion of Hasip Kaplan, those who do not accept... those who do not... are not accepted. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. FROM the third month to a year, from the third year, from the third year to five years in its third joke, the statement was changed from six to six months to two years in its form, and from the fourth from one year to three years in its joke. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0539par0013	Mr. President, there was a motion.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0540par0014	Don't skip the motions.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0537par0015	I'm reading the third article: The statement was changed from six months to two years, from three months to one year, in the second part of Article No. 3-6222 of the Law. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: We propose and propose that the 3rd amendment of the 103rd amendment be removed from the text. Hasip Kaplan Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık Erol Dora Fair Wolf Sırrıyya Leader Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0541par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0537par0026	Government?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0542par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0537par0028	On matter...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0543par0029	Motive...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0537par0030	I'm reading the reason: A reduced sentence to very little will increase the deception and violence of sports, increasing racist propaganda and violence. I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is rejected. I submit the third article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The sentence shall be sentenced to three months to one year in prison in the first joke of Article 4-6222 of the Law. The amount of legal fines to be issued shall not be less than fifty days. The charge of imprisonment shall be changed from three months to one year in the second joke. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora is here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0544par0038	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding the Amendment to the Law on Anti-violence and Disorganisation of Violence and Disruption in the Dated Sports of 24,11,2011 and 6250. I salute you all. After the Parliament approved the Law Bill for Violence and Disorganisation in Sports No. 6222, known as the Law Law Act, it was vetoed by our President for fear that he would inflict severe wounds on his conscience. This law, approved by the Justice and Development Party and other parties outside our party, has come to parliament in exactly the same way. It is surprising that the Law, which must wait 48 hours in the General Assembly, has been brought to the agenda of Parliament at the speed of a jet, and has been met in the midst of budget talks, which are extremely important to our country. In the first joke of Article 11 of the Law on Violence and Disorganisation in Sports, in order to prevent the rights of athletes and fans, in order to prevent irregularities and violent acts, the expression of imprisonment from five to 12 years has been changed from one year to three years in prison. In other articles of the article, the fines have been downloaded and changed. After the arrest of club owners and sportsmen of a law that has been passed for about eight months, such a change of law in the lightest terms has hurt the consciences, clouding the sincerity of our great Parliament. The question that comes to the citizens is, why is there a need to change a law that hasn't even been passed in a year? What changed, and the House decided that these punishments were too much? Has the government changed? What balances have changed and all parties in parliament except the Peace and Democracy Party want to change the Law by hand? Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been told that there are a great deal of fines demanded in Law 6222 that have been made and that the balance of crime and punishment has been maintained by new changes. So you didn't think of any of this? Remember, democratic countries are governed by political intelligence in respect of universal principles of law and freedom. This political mind is also closely associated with public conscience. It is clear that the punishments are too high that the purpose of making this law on that day is to wonder what the purpose is and what the purpose of the change is now being made. The Law, which is now planned to change, obviously, would not have come to light if it hadn't been for the recent scandal of the fix. Under the intense pressure of the Supreme Assembly's football lobby, it is now being voiced by everyone who wants to make such a law. A number of decision makers are said to exist above the Supreme Assembly. The question of what kind of economic games are going on here, who's getting out of this business, or who's under the pressure of the House, and which congregation and football lobby are behind it is clearly clouding the seriousness of the House. In an investigation that has recently been concluded, which is being conducted, there must be no application that could mean interference in the judiciary. However, in response to Mr. President's veto, the Justice Department Commission Report said: "In some cases, some changes in the law are inevitable to affect the state of those who have been investigated and prosecuted. And since the amendments in favour of the penal code are moving backwards, the change in favour is used, even if the sentence has been carried out, even if the sentence has been carried out." It's called. The question is, if you can look at it so optionally, if there are exceptions, why don't you predict the same sensitivity for the arrested MPs? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as I said in my previous speech, the Supreme Assembly continues to carry out a historic offense by insisting that the person be given a special law, despite the veto of Mr. President Abdullah Gul. On the grounds of veto, he believes that the law has stirred up a special arrangement for people who are currently under the scope of an investigation, rather than a public and necessity, that it would undermine the public sense of trust in justice, that it would undermine the fundamental principles of criminal law between crime and punishment, such as deterrentism. I referred to the dangers of establishing a private law in my speech about what kind of legal problems it would cause. I've shared with you my doubts that this law will cause severe injuries to the public conscience, that there will be some questions about the seriousness and sincerity of the House in people's minds. Mr. President Abdullah Gul seems to agree. The reasons for the bill's non-laws are incompatible with Mr. President's motives. We also consider it important for the president, who is in a position above parties, to be sensitive to us, to show that the law has hurt his public conscience. At this point, I find it useful to point out that news of our public party supporting this law continues to be carried out consciously, even though we do not support it. All public should know that this law is strictly excluded from the approval of the Peace and Democracy Party. Our party will not or will not have played a role in the establishment of such questionable laws. Compromising the principles of the law is absolutely incompatible with the political and ethical principles of our party. Political will must be the will of the nation. What's the explanation for putting a mortgage on the people's will, the MPs who won the public's favor with their votes are now in prison? Sadly, it is necessary to express that while Turkey has such a serious issue and most importantly, eight of our fellow MPs are under arrest, it is not in line with the seriousness of the Assembly that the law should be asked to revisit immediately as the budget talks continue. Mr. President, this bill, which is incompatible with the general principles of the law, which also means a covert pardon, must not leave this House. But it seems that no matter what we say, no matter how hard we try not to let this disgrace go down in the history of Congress, this law appears to be coming out of the House. Our word will be known and your word will be appreciated by the public. Since a law can be passed at will, let's all put an end to the shameful state of the High Assembly. Let's make legal arrangements for our fellow paralegals in prison to be able to perform their duties here in the People's Assembly, and put an end to the situation of the arrested MPs. As I stop speaking, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0052	Thank you, Mr. Dora. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 4th amendment of the 103rd row be removed from the proposal of the law. Murat Bozlak Sırrı Sakık Sırrıyya Önder Erol Dora Fair Kurt Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0546par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0062	Government?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0547par0063	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0064	I'm reading the reason: The fair balance between crime and punishment is violated. I submit to your votes the motion that the Commission and the government do not agree: those who do not accept... the motion is rejected. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the first article of Article 16 of the Law, Article 5-6222, the sentence was changed from three months to a year in prison or from one year in legal currency, not less than a day in legal terms, and from one year to three years in its second joke. Anyone want to take a stand on the matter? No. There's a motion, I'm going to read it: We propose and propose that the 5th amendment of the 103rd amendment be removed from the bidding text. Secret by Dareyya Leader Secret by Erol Sakık Dora Fair Kurt Murat Bozlak Hasip Kaplan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0548par0080	The commission disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0081	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0549par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0083	I'm reading the reason: Moderation, deterrentism, fundamental principles of criminal law have been neglected. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the first article of Article 23 of Law No. 6-6222, the statement was changed in the form of a major (e.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. Anyone want to take a stand on the matter? No. There's a motion I'm having read: We propose and propose the removal of Article 6 of the 103 law proposal from the text. Hasip Kaplan Murat Bozlak Secret Sakık Erol Dora Fair Wolf Sırrıyya Leader Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0550par0099	It doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0100	Government?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0551par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0102	I'm reading the reason: The law of the law of the law is determined by the CMK, and it is not fair to make arrangements in private laws. I submit to your votes the motion that the Commission and the government do not agree: those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. It takes effect in the history of the publication of the Law. Anyone who wants a word on the matter...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0552par0110	I want a promise.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0545par0111	Hasip Kaplan, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0552par0112	Of course, 20 minutes till morning's dawn. Of course, you've expired. There's no talk on the motions either, but if we close an incident here and go home as if nothing had happened in the General Assembly, I think we're going to leave with the General Assembly, the Civil Code, the Parliament's tone, the discipline, the group's leadership, the whole thing that doesn't make any sense anymore. We talk from time to time, and it's natural to have violent arguments from time to time, especially between the opposition, between power and opposition parties, and from time to time. Some of the words we're saying here, from time to time, seem to leave our friends out of the question. With that anxiety, they can come out and say words, which is natural, but we also have to weigh our reactions. Now, I'm very clear about the indictment -- it's already in all the press today, because it's all over the Internet -- the point that I'm pointing out there, Mr. Canikli, may have hurt Mr. Canikli, because he gave such a thought, but as a lawyer, I insist on making phone calls, a small city in Anatolia, and when you're a deputy there, he finds you on these phones. I've tried to underline it with the expression that I have no intention. As for this, I'll be very, very clear: I've been a lawyer for 32 years, I've been a lawyer, the world knows my law, I've worked in international law, I've worked in the European Law Association. Mr. Canikli knows that I'm not a terrorist lawyer, and I think I'd like to think that he's out of his league on the subject of rudeness, and then I'd like to think that the words hurt him. Of course, that reaction led me to come here and argue about this, and look, I hit the glass here, and I broke it, and it wasn't right, and it wasn't right with the General Assembly. I'm telling you, it's something that shouldn't happen, something that shouldn't happen. Everything has three processes. First of all, we can play three monkeys and go home like there's been no discussion here. Second, we can run an inquisition court procedure. We vote, and the majority of them can make the decision as they please. Third, we have to, we have to, we work together under this roof, we run this process, we keep it going. In this third period, we have to conduct this work together, under this roof. With understanding and responsibility, I believe Mr. Canikli will come here and say that his words were wrong and that he took them back. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0553par0122	Thank you. Mr. Canicli, come in.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0554par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0555par0125	Mr. President, in the final article, you'll have to promise the group's deputy presidents, so let's get this over with.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0554par0126	Okay, short, Mr. Muharrem. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Kaplan has just made a statement that he is wrong in the way that he would associate my person with a case that is somehow walking and known to the public, and he has declared that he has absolutely no such purpose, that he has no such purpose. So the statements I used in this frame, and the statements in those records, came out as a reflection of a reactionary thought, and in this frame, I take back these expressions or these statements after Mr. Kaplan took them back and corrected them. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0556par0131	Thank you very much. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 8-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Mehmet Shandır on behalf of the MHP Group on Articles. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0557par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Really, we've reached the end of a law that puts special meanings on it, perhaps for some purposes, to stretch, to divide, to turn, and to wear out some values. I wish this law to be a blessing to the sports community, to Turkish football. As the National Movement Party, we opposed the first of this law, Law 6222, and made some warnings, but it was the government's bill, which passed through the ownership of the ruling party group. The laws that come out of this place are the laws of the House. With his power and opposition, if we were to make opposition here, the result was that we, all of us, but he and I have accepted here that the law does not bring peace to the sports community. On top of that, I don't want to call it an operation, but we've seen that the practices that were made to justify it have caused some serious disturbances in that community. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we see sports as one of the most valuable common denominators of society. Today, football is an area where more than half of society is particularly interested in belonging. They say he's 20 million members or fans of a sports club. We couldn't leave an event that concerned such a large community, in chaos, in uncertainty, tension, in distress. Look, at the end of this ordeal, the Turkish national football team was unable to join the European Cups. Well, it was only possible to correct it by correcting the law that had been issued earlier in the Turkish Grand National Assembly and caused the error of its practices. As the National Movement Party, we had to take the sports community's demand for this direction seriously and take it seriously. They came to us, the Club Association Foundation came to us, came to our Mr. President, came to our group, expressed this need. We have to believe in them. We have stated that we will support our faith, but it must come out with an agreement. As a result, 25 competent lawyers, 26 members of the Justice Commission discussed the text the Association of Clubs brought in and brought it here by making some changes, but the issue was taken to such points that the President was drawn into the debate, that the parties were being manipulated, that he was given special meanings, that he was transformed into a separate society, a future projection. What good is that to anyone? In this regard, this Parliament establishes law by changing laws that have been passed before each time. That's our mission, that's our job. If there's a need, if there's a mistake, if there's a lack, who's going to fix it? Aren't we going to fix it? Now, they came up with special meanings, and they backed the song. They protected the criminal. They passed a special law against the person as a very unfortunate statement. I find it unfair to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The President didn't mean anything by it, but it's a reflection of society, that's his perception. It's a shame about our coven. Where will we go if we accuse this House every time, charge it with certain meanings behind its laws, if it smells of salt? Where will this society trust to solve its problems? Punishments are not being lifted by this Law. This law is not against international law. If there's a mistake, we'll fix it. It's not the end of the world. But it would be wrong of us to question each other in such a manner as to dynamite the common work of this House. In my speech just now, Mr. Canikli falls to him. The reason I say it is because the ruling group falls to the great one. We shall not be guided by the scales of error. If someone's wrong, there's no point in us making a big deal out of it. I respect the sensitivity of Mr. Canikli and his group. No one has the right to subject anyone to an accusation that will be passed without a sentence of judgment. It's not called politics, it's not speech, it's not law. I'd like to hope that Mr. Kaplan did not have that kind of intention. But you have to be careful, you have to be sensitive. At a point when the attention of the entire community is being raised, it's not nice to press charges -- because that indictment is prepared for fraud and it's for someone -- to be there, to avoid the fact that his name is not there, it's not elegant, it's not right. At this point, it is possible to recognize Mr. Canikli's sensitivity, emotional response, but I remind you again of the words of Sheikh Edibali. The responsibility of being great is important. We cannot find truth by weighing in the scales of error. I repeat it over and over again. We have to run this House, we have to run this House together, with all our differences, all our fewties. No one should see themselves as an outcast here. It is not in your power to make such a suggestion. Nor does it benefit anyone to make a threat. We'll all work here, Mr. Kaplan. Therefore, no one is excluding you here, ignoring you, so it would be unfair to make it look like it exists, which is why I'm telling you. One more thing to say, a valued congressman told me. What is the need for this urgency? If we delay it a little longer, these arguments will become more and more important. So let's finish this discussion. Let's stop some of our values from being damaged by this discussion. Let's finish this. So that's why it's being discussed in the middle of the night, or at this point, behind budget laws. To minimize this damage, to stop it, as the National Movement Party, we have requested, approved, and contributed to this meeting tonight. So, dear lawmakers, I hope that these mistakes will never happen again. We may not think the same, we may have differences, we may think differently, but we also need to be able to endure each other, endure each other, meet each other with maturity. I wish this law, again, good luck to the Turkish sports community, good luck to our House, good luck to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0558par0152	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. On matter, Hasip Kaplan, please, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0559par0154	Well, that's the end of the work. Three parties in parliament say it's urgent, and they pass this law. By reducing this law, by reducing the sentences, by affecting the ongoing trials, by removing the deterrent, without further discussion, without public discussion, ignoring the reason for the veto the President is concerned about, by ignoring our opinions and despite all warnings from the Group of Peace and Democracy. Most of you already had three parties. But let me make it clear to you, according to Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code, this is not enough in terms of ongoing investigations into organised crime networks. If this purpose is really motivated by this purpose, then the organised crime ring on Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code, which is considered an armed organization, 220, is the famous 220, the number of articles 1, 2, 3. Now, look, there's even more of the 1, 2, 3, of the 220. Maybe you don't realize that the lawmakers know, there's the 7th and 8th article, and it says that while you're not a member of the organization, look, this could be an illegal organization, this could be, you know, this could be an organization related to the fix, the mafia, the gang, it could be a different organization. In this description of these organisations, it says: "Those who act as members of the organization, although they are not members of the organization, receive the same punishment. " Now, I want to warn you that this clause, which we've been discussing for so many hours, which is the way the process of Article 220 is going on at this point of these reductions. You need to know very well that in these investigations, there have been wiretaps, covert investigations, covert witnesses. Look, I got your attention, there were confidential witnesses, there were undercover investigators, and there were wiretaps. In sports, in other crimes, everywhere, there's a lot of lawlessness that hurts justice. Secret wiretaps, private security courts, special prosecutors, special courts, extraordinary courts are the name of injustice, even if it is done to the accused of the case of the Hopa, even if it is done to the accused. You can reduce the fines as much as you want, and you won't change a thing. I'm telling you, it's not gonna change anything. UEFA has to take a team and send another team to Europe or... Did you say the national team can't go?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0560par0156	Of course, to the European Championships.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0559par0157	He can't agree, can he?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0561par0158	Not legally, he can't fail.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0559par0159	So, for different reasons, none of these problems with the sports community, the download of these sentences, or the reduction of the punishment of racist propaganda, won't solve anything. Time will tell, we'll see. And we really, in the process of making quality legislatures of the House, the rush of such laws, the not expected 48 hours of the Civil Charter, the violation of the Civil Code, even though the Council of Counsellors had no decision, so urgent and in a process when the budget talks were determined by four parties, have shaken the axis of such laws between 8-21 and 8-21. Look, I'm being very clear, there might be another suggestion coming in tomorrow, another suggestion coming in the day after tomorrow. And this continuity in the House's budget talks, the previous tradition, has been broken down, broken down, my friends. Look, I'm being very clear, at this hour, we're going home at 4:30, 5:00, and in three hours, we'll be back in the House and we'll start the hearing at 11:00. So we can just go home, take a shower, change, have a cup of tea, coffee, and come back here. If we call it a healthy study, if you think it's healthy, if you think the House is thinking it's healthy, if you think it's the way this law is coming out, if you think the problems are solved, the public conscience is cleared, all injustices and injustices have been solved, you're wrong. The public conscience that we're taking our attention to is tomorrow from the owners of the check, from those who are in for economic crimes, from those who are inside the press crimes, from different crime, from different organizations, from the HOCK case, from Ergenekon case, from the Revolutionary Headquarters case, every single one of them is going to be a bomb in the agenda of a number of injustices, an extraordinary trial. The name of this new discussion is ▪ We were victims too, why didn't you do it for us? And everyone will blame the Assembly, and everyone will blame you. He'll say: If you say justice, why didn't you want justice for everyone? Well, since that's unfair, let's fix it. Why don't you correct them in economic crimes, check crimes; why don't you correct them in the press crimes, why are they still under the scope of terror crimes, and why are people still unable to appear before the judge for three years because of these crimes? On the one hand, I'm doing a job. You're going to see this law that's going to cause a great deal of damage when you say it, and I hope it doesn't encourage the fixers who cheat at betting games, who cheat at betting games, who dive into this area with a lot of money that the mob industry is interested in. It's got to be encouraging just the way it is. No one will get hurt in this condition. Their understanding will improve. This means that he is protective and protective of such crimes. His understanding will improve. We insisted on expressing our thoughts, our proposals, our talks. We are not part of the Peace and Democracy Party in the House's fraud law. I'll leave you all to your consciences. Yours truly.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0562par0163	On the matter, Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0164	Thank you. First of all, we have union friends, who need to take care of this problem. These working conditions are not up to ILO standards. In the 22nd century, we had such a night in a law concerning the CEC. Sure, 15. It was opened at 00.00, Parliament and 11 a.m. Over 100, 12. We've worked for 19 hours to 00, 18 hours today. Congressmans, if we were a truck driver, if we were bus drivers, we'd drive eight hours a day, and we couldn't drive more than five hours at a time. So 18 hours, there's no healthy outcome. I'm warning my friends to drive now, but go slowly on your way home, be careful, there'll be no problem with that. Now, look, tomorrow or the next day we're going to see pictures of lawmakers who are asleep, lawmakers who are yawning... as if there could be a human being, a creature who can't stand in this closed space for 18 hours and can't yawn, and can't sleep. Is that even possible? What could be more natural than sleeping, yawning, leaning? And they're gonna sell it as news, and we're gonna watch it, and it's gonna be a job! Look, he's asleep, I've got this! So it's going to be like this: they're going to divide the amount of meat that 78,000 people a day in the Capitol restaurant, not 8 thousand, but 550, and then they're going to tell us that he ate 320 kilos of meat a month, and they're going to race us against a bear. [[Applause]] We've had our share of that. Look, believe me, we have a stake in this. Here's the thing: we have friends who can't retire. I'm one of the retired. There's one person who can't retire, who's gathered to solve the problems of all parts of society, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, a community that can't solve its own problem, how will that solve the problems of this nation? How's he gonna figure it out? (CHP and AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Who are we afraid of? What are we afraid of? So we're afraid of him because he's gonna write two reporters? What are we afraid of? Look, my dear friends, I'm telling you... (whispers) Wait a minute, guys, wait a minute... look, I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart. I know a lot of my friends are in trouble, all the parties. The percentage of those in distress among us is greater than those whose salt is dry. This is not a community of conglomerate bosses, this is the People's Council. (CHP and AK PARTY) There are wealthy people here, and there are very few people who make a living. Look, my dear friends, I'm going to say one more thing, and I'm not saying this for any political purpose: Mr. President has the opinion on the duration of the arrest of arrested MPs, he says, you have the Prime Minister, you have Mr. Arinc, you have the Minister of Justice, you have the Speaker of Parliament. These are our friends, why don't we solve their problems? Everyone in this country has all the executives; Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker, Minister of Justice, has made an opinion on this. These are our friends, and we have to do what we have to do. There is nothing to be ashamed of, or bored, or to back down, so there is a variety of pressure groups on society, lawmakers, Parliament; false bad news is at the top of them; they carve themselves. News can be made. We have difficulties with not telling the public; we will not be afraid of them; we will walk, we will go. Come on, we're MPs, come on, we're representatives of political parties, come on, we're trying, we're fighting. What's the crime with these kids? What is the crime of these personnel here? What's their crime? He's got kids at home. If we could just get away from these things, from political ambitions for a moment, if we could just look at them and look at them, empathy -- just as Mr. Canikli was hurt, for right reasons, and I told him that he had been wronged -- and I said, "What if this happened to me, friend, who else had it happened to?" You know what I was thinking? The inscription on Grandpa's father's gravestone has arrived. When I was a kid, I couldn't understand what it was, I couldn't get the whole sentence straight. He wrote: "It is a blessing from your visit, but to me today it is to you tomorrow." This power is not permanent to anyone, it is not permanent to anyone, and in thirty years none of us will be here.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0564par0174	We're out in three years.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0176	I meant me. Elitaş, I mean me when I say we won't be here in thirty years. It's obvious that in three years, you won't be...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0564par0177	We'll leave together.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0178	...because you've been selected three semesters in a row, you can't get a fourth in your Charter.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0564par0179	We didn't nail this place, there's more coming after us. Why are you putting nails in there?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0180	And I'd also like to say that as a friend of yours who's had three consecutive periods, 65 percent of this Parliament will change next term, so no more than half of us will ever come here again. Four years like that, it'll be over before you know it. You know what's gonna be the only thing left? Stand up straight, stand up straight. That's all that's left. There'll be nothing left. Don't worry, after that retirement, the deputy will continue, and you'll be called again, and the expenses will continue. I see my friends. All of this...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0565par0181	Let's sign it, Muharrem Ence. Let's sign it.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0182	Don't take it from one side, I said other things, I said all together.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0565par0183	Okay.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0184	Bring it all together, we'll sign it. Yes, that's right, bring in our arrested MPs, bring them in for pensioners, bring them all in, we'll sign them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We can actually figure this out. It's easy to figure out, but know this, really, it'll all go away, and whoever stood up will stay. Can I tell you something? So honestly, if you're a nine-year congressman, go out there, say it honestly, and I'll tell you something: when I look back, I'm really sad about something, you know, why I did it. The party's leadership told us that they won't vote in this 2/B vote. They stopped us from voting at 2/B.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0566par0187	In the 22nd term.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0188	Yes, in the 22nd term. So I followed that decision, and I didn't vote, I didn't vote, I didn't vote, which was my constitutional right. I don't vote, I don't vote, I don't vote, I tell you something. It's still a wound inside me. Like lions, I should have gone and voted, never put me on the list again, and I wish I had done that.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0566par0190	Bravo!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0563par0191	Now, let me tell you something, so that tomorrow you don't have to say, "Come out, we're the MPs of this country, we can't tolerate the arrest of eight of the MPs. "Let one of you come out, and let him not fall into this mistake that I've made; let him not fall into tomorrow, let him make what I can't, I think he can't. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Metiner, there's an article online. I'll check the reports, there's no such thing in the reports. If we're going to comment on each other based on what's in every newspaper, there's no end to it. I checked, there's no such thing in the reports. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0568par0197	And so will you.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0198	In the name of the group, sir, the last item.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0568par0199	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's too early, so it's five o'clock. For God's sake!
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0202	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's quarter to five, and in a little while, hopefully, after we've passed this law, we'll go home, and we'll be back at 11:00 today...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0569par0204	So what if we don't? Let's move on.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0205	...we will continue to discuss the fourth round of the budget at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Dear lawmakers, along with this proposal of law that I believe is clearly unfairly criticised by members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in which many debated and really debated, there were the same political parties at that time, again on the last day of the closing of the Turkish Grand National Assembly in April of 2011, or on the last day of the closing of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Party of Peace and Democracy, the Republican People's Party and the AK PARTI. On that day, a bill, which four political parties agreed on the day the Turkish Grand National Assembly was about to close, became law within half an hour. We make the laws, and then after we make the laws, we see some side effects, differences in the moment of practice, and the ability to regulate them when we evaluate the disproportionateness between punishment and crime. As a matter of fact, we are faced with a motion on a clause that we have made here when we are negotiating the law, then a motion, and then the days when we're negotiating the process. Same thing we're doing right now. Look, what our friend here just said was very true. The article on Law No. 6222, which we are currently discussing in the indictment, is very few. Generally, there are regulations concerning the articles of the Turkish Penal Code and the following articles and the following articles of the Turkish Penal Code, but somehow the public has been manipulated differently, and the indictment on us for the fraud has revealed a feeling as if the person mentioned in the indictment had been rescued here. It's certainly misleading, and I see it as propaganda by different people, different focus, for different purposes, to discredit the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, the process of this law proposal, which is the Law Proposal No. 6250, has been going on for two months and three months. From the day the new Parliament was formed, the Association of Clubs visited all political parties, their headquarters, and then visited political party groups. While visiting political party groups, Mr. Group, as our Deputy President and Minister have just stated, the political party groups agreed and all signed under it, but I withdrew my signature at the commission stage. Dear friends, as soon as the political party signed its corporate personality on a matter, he certainly did his research on it. Without doing his research, I misconstrue it, sign my signature. "It may indicate that the political party is indifferent to everything or about it. See, one of the representatives of our political party is that we do not approve of the fraud of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If we prefer the parliamentary democratic system, if we agree to continue in this system, we must stand together against all obstacles that would discredit the parliamentary democratic system.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0570par0210	Mr. Elitaş, come to the end, for a moment.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0211	Mr. Aslanoglu, you always talk to me when I'm on the stand. Mr. Slim spoke for nine and a half minutes, Mr. Shandir spoke for eight and a half minutes, Mr. Lion spoke for ten minutes...
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0570par0212	You talk less.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0213	I'll talk less, one minute to go.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0571par0214	Not Mr. Lion, Tiger.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0215	Did I say tiger? What did I say?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0571par0216	You called Kaplan Aslan.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0217	Whatever it is, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Now, dear friends, look, here's the thing: the AK PARTY group is being unfair. ▪ Why are we working so late at night? They say it's against ILO contracts. You're the ones who acted against the ILO contracts.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0571par0219	Elitaş, you don't even understand a joke, you're making politics from there.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0220	For example, today, the Deputy Director of the Peace and Democracy Party said: "You put a tradition here that never existed." Dear Congressman, we've done this before, and we've done this before.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0572par0221	There are no such provisions in the charter, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0222	We've seen it done, along with the group's motion to do the work after the budget.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0573par0223	Of course, when it comes to the last item, you speak. Why didn't you say something first? See, that's Kayseri's awake.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0567par0224	And before the budget law, I recommend, dear friends, tomorrow at 11 p.m. to budget talks. We'll continue after 100. I hope and hope that our dear congressman friends, political party groups, will continue their budget talks in this framework tomorrow in the framework written by the Interior Charter. I wish the law to be blessed, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0574par0227	I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 8th article has been accepted. There's a motion that the whole bill should be open to an open vote, so I'll read the motion and call the signers. We propose and propose that the full vote of Law 103, which is held, shall be carried out by an open vote under the Charter 143. Muharrem İnce? Here. Gürkut Acar? Here. Ahmet Topstone? Here. Aylin Nazliaka? Here. Haluk Ahmet Silver?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0575par0236	Here, here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0574par0237	Izzet Cetin?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0576par0238	Emrehan Halici instead.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0574par0239	In place of Emrehan Halcı, over. Sena Kaleli? Here. Emrehan Halcı?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0577par0242	Ali Serindağ instead.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0574par0243	Metin Lütfi Baydar? Here. Osman Aydın? Here. Kemal Milldere?
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0578par0246	Instead, it's Kazim Kurt.
tbmm-2011-12-09sit09spe0574par0247	Bulent Tezcan? Here. Mahmoud Tanal? Here. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu? Here. Ilhan Demiröz? Here. Celal Dinçer? Here. Idris Star? Here. Kemal Sokci? Here. Salih Firat? Here. Sinan Aydın Aygün? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As per the verdict, we'll vote on an electronic voting device. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, and those who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within the foreseeable three minutes of the vote. Also, if there are ministers who are going to vote, I'd like to ask which minister to vote, to deliver the color of the game and the ballot bearing its name and signature to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I declare the clear vote of 103 rows of the Numbered Law: [[x]] Good luck with that. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have you read and vote: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Saturday (June 10/12/2011). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party The General Assembly's 10:12.2011 p.m. on Saturday, 13 p.m. Gathering at 00 It's recommended. I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Members of parliament, according to the programme to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the organisations, on Saturday (December 10th) at 13 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
