tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Kayseri MP İsmail Tamer Bey, who asked for a comment on the Kayseri Winter Sports and Tourism Center Project. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have been promised to promote the Winter Tourism Center, the third leg of the Winter Tourism Master's Plan. I salute you all. Kayseri Metropolitan Municipality's master plan for tourism is a three-legged project. The first is the Cappadocia region project, the second is the Kayseri project, and the third is the Ercenas winter tourism project we're talking about today. Precious MPs come to mind in our country called winter tourism, Uludağ, Kartkaya, Palandöken, Erciyes, Cartepe, Sarıkamiş, Sakıkukent, Elmağ, Bolkar, Davras, Bitlis, Bingol, Zigana, and Bubi; however, Ercies is a very special place. Mount Ercinis was part of the Metropolitan City Law, which took effect in 2005, and a two-year project was introduced in 2007. Dear MPs, Mount Ercijas is a symbol of the height of 3917 metres and of Kayseri. This project is collected under five main topics and is built for 26 million square metres: the first is mechanical facilities, the fibers and the cable systems; the second is combining units, ten combining units; the other is a social facility, restaurants, parks, health units, shopping centers, day-to-day areas, ski facilities, mosques, football fields, and 8,000-man convention centers; in housing facilities, there is another project aimed at releasing the capacity of bed capacity of around 800 today on 5,000 feet; in another, 25,000 cubic metres and 65 cubic metres in the lake. The entire project requires an investment of 276m euros. Today, at our ski resort, the current track length is 9 kilometers [9 km] long, and in a very striking way, it is intended to build a 100km track. Of course, when it comes to winter tourism, what's going to happen here? Winter sports activities such as alpine skiing, snowboarding, return skis, freestyle skiing tours, northern discipline, biathlons will be possible, but also summer sports such as climbing, mountain walks, mountain bikes, kites and parachutes will begin here. The project aims to target a congressional centre of 8,000 people. Again, it is planned to build football fields and football social facilities, especially our football teams will be able to camp here. The ski track will be built according to FIS criteria, with its 59km finished for today. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are therefore scheduled for a five-month-long and uninterrupted skiing season between 15 November and 15 April. The main goal of this pond will be to provide water supplies to the CPR units. No ski resort has a center with a capacity of 160km and 5,000 beds with FIS criteria. The main goals of the Ercices Project are: to make Kayseri able to benefit from tourism, to provide jobs for 3,000 people, to provide 100m euros directly, 100m euros indirect income, to build the industry of winter tourism and skiing tools here, to promote social activity in the city, and above all, to make different championships, especially 2022 Winter Olympics, a candidate city. Our Prime Minister has given great support to this project, and I want to thank him. I wish this project would bring blessings to Kayseri, and then to our country, and I send my regards and love to the General Assembly. Yours truly.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. Mr. Sakık and Mr. Commander, you have your vows, but the speech was about Ercijas. I wonder what you have to say about Ercijas. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu who wants to talk about Osmaniye province and its problems. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-topic promise about the Ottoman province and its problems. I salute you all. On the east side of Ceyhan River in Upper Çukurova, Osmaniye was established on the road that connects the historic Silk Road and Turkey to the Middle East, surrounded by the provinces of Gaziantep, Hatay, Adana and Kahramanmarash. Osmaniye and the Turks, who had hosted countless civilizations before the Turks, first came with Abbasi armies in the 7th century. Khalifa Harun Reşit. Faraç Bey has established many castles and settlements in the region, particularly Haruniye in today's Daziçi district. To establish order in the 1850s, Dervis Paşa established the Farqai Corrections and the surrounding tribes in the Hajiosman village where the city is today. ==History==In 1866, Osmaniye was named after the Palace of Gibraltar in 1874. With the declaration of the Republic of Gibraltar, it took place in 1924, and in 1933 it was an accident in the province of Osmaniye Adana. He is a star in the eastern Mediterranean basin and Çukurova, with the population of 7 districts, 9 villages, 161 villages, and 480,000 inhabitants, which are re-districted in 1996. Osmaniye is not where he deserves to be, as far as the numbers are concerned. In terms of the population, Osmaniye ranked 42, ranked 47, while ranked 47, the DPT (DPT) in 2003, was ranked 51, the 51st in the 2010 re-evaluation. Osmaniye is the 62nd ranking in the health sector development ranking. It is a province in which Ottomania is immigrating and rapidly urbanizing as well as its lands and geographical and position. In this framework, unemployment is observed at 11 per cent in Turkey with the figures of the state, while Osmaniye is watching at 15 per cent. However, the number of people with green cards is more than 20 per cent in other counties, while Osmaniye is around 16 per cent. In Osmaniye, where agriculture-based economies rule, Turkey is about 50 per cent of total peanut production, 80 per cent of total red radish production -- or rather, in Kadirli district. However, the lack of the coast of Osmaniye is one of the major factors that prevents the development of its economy from being able to export what it produces from its own port. Another of Osmaniye's biggest problems is that their home is on the forest grounds by foot. The problem with the bow is the problem of 30,000 families living in the region. The people of Osmaniye, like the regions with problems with the whole other plateau, expect legal arrangement for the resolution of this problem from the High Assembly. While the total double road in Turkey is around 20,000 kilometers, unfortunately, Osmaniye has only 55km of the double road. The construction of the Ottomaniye-Gaziantep double road is moving very slowly. It is also a problem for the people who live in the villages of Tzardak, Çona, Dereli, Desert, Dervisi, Tehchi and Aslaniye to cross the double routes to the agricultural areas. Osmaniye-Kadirli, Kadirli-Andir's double roads, as well as the roads leading from Dziziçı to Andırın and their villages must be taken into the network of roads. The promotion of the Mehmetli Dam, which will enable additional watering of 3.112 hectares, with its height raised 12.60 metres, must be carried out immediately. The Düzçi Çatak Dam must also be made clear. Osmaniye farmer, who single-handedly performs close to 50 per cent of the production of peanuts in Turkey, is a certified seed, the problem of being dried by the primitive methods of the after-grained peanut, the question of the peanut exports, which are deprived of imports and incentives while the manufacturer has peanuts in his hand. In this framework, it is important to include the creation of peanut-producing units and the support of peanuts, like other fatty seeds. Along with Mersin, Adana, and Hatay, Osmaniye would have to act as soon as possible in the Ceyhan energy zone in the Eastern Mediterranean basin, which would be the solution to their problems in many areas of employment, production. In this region, organised industrial areas that will serve the development of the region must be supported by pushing aside politicians in the prospect of unnecessary political polemics and Rant. By not being satisfied with this, the creation and implementation of the legal infrastructure of other agricultural zones other than the energy zones will contribute substantially to the national economy and the region. Osmaniye is a town in which public buildings need to be reviewed in terms of earthquakes, where the first, middle and higher education students have a problem in line, where there are river beds in the Garden district that are in need of rehabilitation and threatening the city, which are very inadequate for sports facilities. He needs the attention and support of state institutions... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0004par0048	I salute the Turkish nation's MPs in the 61st government's programme, hoping to approach Osmaniye as a self-son, like the 57th Republic government.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0003par0050	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Bolu MP Tanju Özcan (Bullu) who wants to talk about the problems of the potato manufacturers. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0005par0054	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I've come out here today to discuss an important regulation. This is a regulation published on 13 January 2011 in the Official Gazette, which will take effect on 31 December 2011. It's called the plant passport system and the regulation on the registration of operators. Dear lawmakers, this regulation has two goals. One of them is to register a Turkish peasant with a two-bit income, to make him a taxpayer, and the other is to hit the potato makers with a heavy blow. Now, valued MPs, you all know that 70 per cent of Turkey is off the books. You, the AKP government in Turkey, are trying to make a taxpayer of Turkish peasants with a three-bit income -- rich -- rich people who feed on order -- unable to register mustached foreigners. You're trying to tax some of the money from the peasant's potatoes and wheat, and you're taking oil out of the fly. Therefore, there is no way that I can accept this regulation. There's also a second side to this regulation, valued lawmakers. This regulation is really hitting the potato makers in a very serious way. If you look at the 6th article of this regulation, you will find that cooking potatoes can't be produced for three years. That means he won't be able to make a penny's worth of cash from the potato maker in Bolu, Niğde, until 2015. Madam Secretary here, I'd like to ask him clearly: you caught the peasant unprepared. You won't be planting potatoes from this year on. The notices have been made by the county managers, but the villager has married his son, depending on his income from the potatoes, or is burdened with debt. Tomorrow, if any peasant's house is impounded, if the bailiff lifts goods from that peasant's house, will you be able to rest your head in peace as Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism? I'm asking you to answer that. Dear MPs, I'm afraid Turkey has become an interesting country. The peasant who voted during the AKP era, the punished peasant. In the AKP period, the import of an angus from Uruguay is free to eat potatoes. During the AKP, it is also free to import milk powder with zero customs tax from Israel, and the villagers are not allowed to sell their milk at a reasonable price. With all due respect, regulations like this don't work. Dear friends, this is the Republic of Turkey, there are boards here, there are rules. Mr. Minister, with all due respect, the Turkish Republic of Turkey is not the farm of Mehdi Agha, but the Turkish peasant is not the maharajah of Mehdi Aga. There are no such arrangements. I'd like to tell Mr. Secretary that I've thought about it in the evening, and I'd like to bring it to life in the morning. There will be regulations as I wish. You can't say that. You have to protect the commoner's interests. I'd like to remind you in particular. I'm calling you too: please read this regulation with a calm mind. Listen to your conscience. Really, see how much damage it has done to the villagers in Turkey, and do what you will after that. I'm not telling you anything else. Dear lawmakers, there is another issue, and I want to bring this up quickly as Mr. Minister of Agriculture is here: Maybe, you know, you don't know, two thirds of Turkey's nut production is done in the Western Black Sea region, not in Giresun or around it. This makes part of the production of nuts in the city of Taşkesti, Mudurnu district of Bolu. In 22 of our town's 22 villages, every house has its nut gardens. Next to you is Dokurcun district of Sakarya. Dokurcun is a town in Akyazı district of Sakarya Province, Turkey. There is no support for the Stonecutti, which is produced in 22 regions of 22 villages under the support of nuts. I went to the Minister, told him that. Mr. Minister, it seems that you have forgotten the Stonecracker. The Bolu MPs who served before us didn't remind you of that. Please fix this. I said. It is part of the Republic of Turkey, and it is part of the Republic of Turkey. The people there vote heavily for the AKP, and so do the people in the Stonecrackers. Why, then, as Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting for the Republic of Turkey, are you punishing the Tasselsti and the Stonecrackers? Why don't you give the Stonecrackers the right to be supported and supported by the nuts that the Stonecracker already deserves? I'm waiting for an answer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0006par0065	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehdi Eker will respond to the extracurricular speech.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0007par0067	Mr. President, you're not making any promises based on 60. Mr. Secretary's on the stand, we have a little problem. Four provinces, Van, Pain, Bitlis, Mush, all beets in the field this year. People are victims. The earthquake site... I'd appreciate it if he'd give me a statement about that.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0006par0068	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you all. I'm here to answer the non-responsive speech. First, let me make a statement regarding what Mr. Sýpýk said. In the past few weeks, there has been an unexpected case of frostbite in some parts of Turkey, in their provinces. In particular, both potatoes and beets were negatively affected in some areas. In this regard, the Council of Ministers' decision on the postponement of agricultural loans for our citizens who have been victimised in these areas has been made. That's how we help them, our citizens in that area, as a government. That's usually the kind of help that can be done with these kinds of disasters. You know, there's insurance. Although some products are not covered by insurance. That's how we help them through the decrees. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are producing potatoes in some parts of our country, including Nevşehir, Niğde, the Army, Kayseri, in the area of about 1.5 million acres of potatoes, and our estimate this year is that there will be around 4.5 million tonnes of potato production in Turkey. Over the past four years, there has been an increase of about 10 percent in the production of potatoes. A disease, called potato warts, has occurred here in Turkey in recent years. Most likely, it's a disease that occurred in ancient times. Of course, there's a need for caution. If this is not taken care of, the cause of this disease is spreading rapidly, and in that country, healthy potatoes are becoming unprovoked. The whole world's been through this. So that's what happened in the world in places where this disease occurred. In 2004, this disease was detected in the provinces of Nevşehir, Niğde, Army and Kayseri. So there has to be a measure at times like this. So, how does the world take precautions? The world predicts that there should be no minimum potatoes planted for three years in these areas, so that the soil may be cleansed, cleansed, and at risk, so that it can be done in the future, so that it can be maintained. Otherwise, if we don't take this measure, this disease will spread and in no way in the future this time, never, not every three years, it will never be able to be produced because of disease. Now, it takes about 20 years to get rid of this virus. Such a dangerous virus. So, what did we do? Did we actually victimize the manufacturers as they claim? No, it's not true, it's not real. You have to use the information correctly. We provided alternative product support. Because of the potato wart, we told our manufacturers that we can't produce potatoes, that we can't plant potatoes, that we've given money to grains, beans, one-year-old oil seeds, etc., for the year when you don't plant potatoes. Why? Alternative product support. So he can't plant potatoes, because of disease, he's planting other products; the potato's income is high, so when he plants another product, he can't get that much income, so we pay him to meet the difference between the product he planted instead of the potato. Now, of course, the regulations mentioned here are being mixed up. Obviously, it's not well studied, it's not well studied. This isn't about a plant passport. This is a regulation decree on the Watchability of Commercial Potatoes in 2009, which was published on 29/4/2009 in the Official Gazette 27,214. Here, every three years, there's a potato harvest requirement. This is not only in our country, but in other geographys of the world, especially in the European Union, in other countries, in which this disease occurred, three years, four years, potato seedery is planted once every four years if it is to be planted, but if it is to be produced commercial potatoes, it will be planted by three years. So that's what we're doing to fight this disease. And in the year that we're not planted, we're already offering alternative product support. The plant passport thing is something else. The matter of the plant passport is actually a very important and modern step. It shows that Turkey is actually in a very big move in this area. He was already in effect on December 1st, not December 31st, but December 1st. What's a plant passport? It's about fruit, and it's about seeds, and it's about seedlings, and it's about seedlings, and it's about plant passports, and it's about to be monitored, and it's about to be traced, and it's about disease, and we can track them commercially and commercially, and it's about seedlings, and it's about plant passports when it's seeded. This is in the interest of both the peasant and the farmer and the Turkish agriculture sector and all of Turkey. So, frankly, I consider it a waste of judgment, criticism, and I want to express it, because it's not right. It's supposed to be, so whoever it is, it has to take this step, so that when a product is transferred from place to place, when a production material is transferred, let's enter the information system, let's know what product, what quality, where the product is going in Turkey, let's know where it's going, let's see if there's any problem, let's watch it, let's track it, let's do it right away. A plant passport is something like this, and it's very useful, very necessary. Turkey is already late. I wish Turkey could have gone into this practice 20 years ago, 15 years ago, but like so many things, like many firsts, we got it to Turkey, and that started in our time. We actually have innovations as the Department of Agriculture about a lot of things. We started supporting rural development investments. We've established 3,165 facilities, agricultural-based industrial facilities, for our citizens who live in villages and live in rural areas. It's the first time we've done this, it's the first time we've started it. We're supporting 50%. It's an agricultural product... it could be a potato, it could be a fruit, it could be a vegetable, it could be a grain, it could be an animal product, it could be meat, milk, et cetera. So we support them 50 per cent if they're installed, they're packed, they're packed, they're packed, and we've given Turkey 3,165 facilities. There are 32,000 people working on them right now. A job was created, agricultural products evaluated, and then it will continue to be evaluated. Now, saying something out of opposition doesn't necessarily bring human irresponsibleness, political irresponsibility, so even if we're in opposition, if we're saying information, it has to be true. Now, it was said here that, sir, zero customs from Israel imports milk powder with zero customs. In 2011, we supported milk powder from the inside, and in 2010, we supported all the milk dust in Turkey, all the milk dust that we needed from the inside, and thanks to this measure that we took in Turkey, the quart of milk powder was up to 74-75 cents, once again. With our support, it's up to 81 cents.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0008par0081	Minister, where's 74-75 cents? You don't know, you don't know, you don't know anything! There's always talk of Israel. I say it all the time, but for some reason, people don't want to hear it, they don't want to understand it. We export $141m in agricultural products to Israel last year, and we have $27 million in imports, so our exports are almost four times more than our imports. If you're going to trade with a country, you're going to buy something when you sell something, but our exports are about four times that much about that country, and I'll say that again here. I mean, it's not just the fact that milk dust comes from Israel or anything like that. Especially in 2011, we wiped it out completely. When did you cut it, tell me, in 2009... Now, dear friends, both about agriculture and food safety -- which, on December 13th, Turkey is also making an important step towards food safety. Why? Because we had a four-pack of 70 regulations 18 months ago, and its application now begins on December 13th. This is where all European Union standards now include food-related, hygiene-related, consumer health-related measures, which come into play. New measures on food safety from the information system are taking place until many consumers are informed and appointed private managers to businesses, all businesses, food businesses are registered or some of them become approved businesses. Turkey has actually come a significant distance in agriculture. The whole world knows this, the whole world is saying, the whole world is imitating Turkey, the development of agriculture in Turkey, and Turkey is sitting in the 7th place according to the World Bank, according to OECD. Among the European Union countries, Turkey has become the 1st largest country, leaving behind both France and Spain and Italy. All of this was done through serious strategic work against agriculture, policies, and support. Regarding livestock, the number of enterprises in Turkey has increased from 4.300 to 24,000 in medium and large enterprises. What businesses? The number of businesses with over 50 head of cattle in it -- 50, 100, 150, 200 -- was the number of large-scale businesses in Turkey, 4.300, nine years ago today to 24,000. This happened with both the large investments in this area and the benefits provided. Now, hopefully next Sunday, the Ministry of Agriculture's budget will be discussed, and there, in our bill, our agricultural support is predicting another 20 per cent increase compared to the previous year. All of this came with support for the Turkish farmer, which we paid around $6.5 billion this year, and almost all of that is now paid for by the farmer. Now, both in livestock, both in plant production, and in the production of water products, Turkey has come a great distance, and has come a very important distance. This process will continue with these reforms from now on. We, the government, are strategically approaching all issues related to this issue. With the strategic plan we've prepared, we've brought it up to date. We've raised our agricultural revenue from $23 billion to $62 billion. We have the same area. In the same area, the Turkish farmer made $23 billion in revenues, while today we raised it to $62 billion. Now, this happened with an increase in efficiency, by supporting the farmer and our rural citizens, our citizens, who live in villages, which, of course, did not happen out of the blue. Here are the potato manufacturers... their production of, of course, alternative products is going to happen every three years because it's essential for health, it's necessary. It's not a decision we make on our own, I'll tell you that. We don't see Turkey as our enemy's farm or our father's. We, Turkey, rule Turkey with the strength we receive with their support and prayers, in accordance with the wishes, demands of that nation, that live within 74 million people. From where we got it, we've brought Turkey to a much better place. Our nation already supports and supports these policies, which, in every election we're in, we're getting more people's support, more people's support, and our nation's best answer is already in the polls. For him, I'd like to express that in doing such evaluations, it must be done with compassion and common sense. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0009par0090	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0008par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0009par0092	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0008par0093	I want a promise, sir. He accused me of being irresponsible and bullied me, as well as the Secretary of the General Assembly misinformation me. What the Minister is talking about, it's in progress. The regulation he calls it has been revoked by the regulations I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary doesn't know about it, it's one. Second, he does not realize that the regulation on the banning of cooking potatoes is prohibited by the last draft of Rule No. 277813, which I mentioned.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0010par0096	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. He's on the books. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0011par0098	The Minister doesn't know about this?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0012par0099	Sir, I apologize. The Minister is not aware of his own regulations. I'm presenting this to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0013par0101	Mr. Ozcan, thank you. We don't have that kind of procedure. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health, wanted to answer questions from the list of the questions on the agenda: 1, 2, 18, 27, 32, 34, 37, 38, 39, 152, 165, 181, 186, 206, 210, 221, 228, 236, 238, 240, 242, 246, 292, 295, 299, 318, 343, 349 and 389. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The president's office has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and submit to your knowledge. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The Law Against the Law on Violence and Disorganisation in Sports" adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 24/11/2011/2011. The Law 5149, which was adopted in 2004 to encourage the spread of sports by order in sports and organisations, was deemed inadequate in preventing violence and irregularities in sports competitions, and was adopted in 14/4/2011 by the Turkish Grand National Assembly to address the shortcomings encountered in implementation. For the overall reason, crimes and penalties for this area have been organised in order to prevent the rights of those who operate in sports and fans through Law 6222, which states and international sports organisations have been prepared in consideration of the regulations and regulations of the international sports organisations and has been said to be parallel to international contracts and developments. In accordance with the Law, the reduction of prison sentences for various crimes, including fraud and incentives, in the 6222 Law, has been stipulated to replace the prison sentences prescribed for certain verbs and to replace the judicial fine and to replace the courts in charge of these changes. As it is known, in the legal state, rules on security measures in place of punishment and punishment are determined according to the penal policy to which the country will be determined, especially in regard to its social and cultural structure, ethical values and the needs of economic life, including the fundamental principles of criminal law and the relevant provisions of the Constitution. The legislator has the authority to appreciate which verbs will be considered a crime when he uses the authority to punish, which type and size of punishments will be met with the authorities, and what may be considered to be an extenuating or mitigating reason. While this authority is being used, the basis for maintaining the fair balance between crime and punishment is considered, and the foreseeable punishment is capable of fulfilling the purpose intended for punishment. As to whether or not there is a fair proportion between crime and punishment, the infinitive and influence of that crime in society must be taken into account as well as factors such as the danger and damage of individuals and their scarcity or abundance, the reduction in crime rate or increase in the rate of execution. Otherwise, the arrangement could have consequences beyond its true purpose, and society's sense of trust in justice will also be shaken. It is believed that the changes envisioned by the Law, such as measurement and deterrent, would disable the basic principles of criminal law, and could cause problems mentioned above. On the other hand, it is noted that the amendments to Law 6222 have been carried out in order to determine fines that are fair and equitable to the crimes envisioned in other laws, but it seems to have sparked criticism in public that there is a special arrangement for people under an ongoing investigation, rather than a general and necessity. According to Article 89 and 104 of the Constitution, the Constitution has been reconnected in accordance with Articles 89 and 104 of the Law on the Protection of Violence and Disruption in Sports, which is not seen for the above grounds. It has been presented to your knowledge. Mr. Sugar and Mr. Akar, during the non-responsibility talks, Mr. Kaplan also requested a word during the President's Presentation to the General Assembly. You know we can't fulfill it. Thank you. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems in the area of "Consultive Rights," and to determine the measures that should be carried out on this subject, I demand and demand that a parliamentary investigation be conducted under Article 98th, 104 and 105th of the Constitution. As there are not enough civil society organisations for consumer rights in Turkey, legal regulations are insufficient. As consumer movements remain weak, there is not enough co-operation and partnership among them, consumers face severe rights violations. The issue of product safety is problematic, and regulations and regulations for market supervision of products are insufficient. Anti-secure measures against unsafe products, market surveillance, detection of risky products are still problematic. Commercial advertising, ads and promotions, bank loans, incentives, campaigns, are not supervised enough, the reviews can't be deterrents. Adjudicating, misleading, dishonest advertising and promotions are inadequate. There is no harmony between consumer legislation, courts, arbitration board decisions. In addition to the loss of goods due to the violation of consumer rights, health problems have grave consequences that violate the right to live in the agenda. The prevention of infectious diseases, the use and control of harmful products, has not been sufficient progress on public health prevention measures. In terms of blood products, tissue and cells, the EU acquish is not implemented, legislation is not adaptable. In the absence of standard conditions for guarantees, security and use of imported goods from abroad, consumers suffer. Electronics, cell phones, computers, contraband, counterfeit goods, are all over the market. The security of society, the rights of the individual, the listening devices, the jamer tools, are easily sold like bread and cheese on the sidewalks, on the carts. The heavy results of abuse, conservation and circulation of products in the food industry, genetically degraded fruit and products, pesticides and poisonings are found daily in the press. The cinema, the music industry, is being violated by the production and sale of pirated goods, while consumers are being damaged by the lack of quality in products. It is necessary to ensure product safety in the field of consumer and health protection, to stimulate consumers, to be aware of their rights, to activation of legislation. A parliamentary survey for this purpose must be launched, and a research commission must be established to ensure effective measures to protect consumer rights. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In order to determine all dimensions of severe consequences, such as wounding, injury, and death, which are commonly used in public demonstrations by law enforcement, I propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98th, 104 and 105th of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, be determined to prevent measures to prevent this disproportionate right to fundamental right to life. In the use of democratic rights and freedoms in Turkey, during the actions of labour unions, during the activities of political parties, plastic bullets, gas bombs and pepper gas used by police to distribute activities and activities are spreading death. Since 2000, it has cost the lives of 18-month-old Mehmet Uytun in Cizre district of Şırnak. Tears, knockouts, breathtaking gases, which threaten human life and health and are known as the most important tool of action and activities, cause people to be injured and killed. In particular, physicians note that if pepper gasses are used intensively, it can cause physical discomfort, increased blood pressure, as well as death. Noting that pepper gas can also cause hypertension attacks, physicians point out that death is inevitable, especially if allergic individuals, asthma and other respiratory systems are inhaled at a high rate by patients and heart patients. In a report published in 2001, the European Committee for Torture and Evil Obstruction (CPT) noted that pepper gas is potentially dangerous, while it should not be used in closed spaces, it also has reservations about open air use. In Turkey, pepper gas (CS) and gas bombs, which have been widely used by police, have not been considered lethal, but the picture has also shown in recent years that this is not such an innocent weapon. In the events in Istanbul on May 1, 2007, the police threw a gas bomb in the streets of Rim-Gulleci, causing the death of 75-year-old İbrahim Güylümiz, who lived in front of a coffeehouse, to die. Finally, Isaac Kalvo, 55, died of a heart attack during the IMF protests in Istanbul on October 6. In an intervention by police using dozens of gas bombs at a memorial service held on 29 March 2006 in Umraniye district of İstanbul, Hüseyin Demir (24) lost his life as a result of citizen gas poisoning. Although the type of gas bombs that were used were not publicized, the death of most of those who lost their lives as a result of the explosion of their brains suggests that the bomb had a more dangerous effect than the bullet when it hit the human body. On March 28, 2006, gas bombs used in the three-day events in Diyarbakir caused the death of two people. The gas bomb with the return cap hit the head of a 22-year-old furniture worker named Tariq Atakaya. The gas bomb from the left side of his head caused Atakaya to die, while the gas bomb was removed from his head with an autopsy. On March 30th, a young man named Mahsum Lance became the target of the gas bombs fired by police. According to the autopsy report, he was killed due to brain destruction and bleeding due to the injury caused by the gas bomb that hit him in the head. The government's preventing opposition from seeking rights, obstructing the freedom of expression and opinion due to law. The severe punishments for unauthorized demonstrations on children throwing stones are disturbing the public conscience. Gas bombs, gas flares, pepper gas attacks were last used on 4 June 2010 at the BDP MPs Sevahir Bayin, Hasip Kaplan, Hamit Geylani, the mayors and the public, and more than 30 people were injured. Demonstrations and statements by being a democratic society show that the government sided with, favoured, supported, and brutally attacked its opponents for weeks, as in the case of Israel. Therefore, it is beneficial to open parliamentary research and to establish a research commission. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of "Independent Judiciary," to determine the work and the measures to be carried out on this subject, I demand and demand that a parliamentary inquiry be conducted under Article 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution. Independent judgment is the foundation of "justice property," the only port where the citizen will be sheltered against injustices. The healthier the national judiciary works, the less likely the appeals to the ECHR will be to the above-national judiciary. For a fair trial, it's all from preparation to the final investigation phase. The injury in a wheel of this process is the result of the error of the process. Therefore, from forensic law enforcement to police and gendarmes' branch, from judicial staff to judges, prosecutors and lawyers, from building tools, equipment and stationery to technology; from education,staja, jurisprudence to universal law must be considered as a whole and to address their problems. The issue must be addressed as a whole, regardless of confidential wiretapping, private High Criminal courts, the politicalisation of the judiciary, the long period of detention and imprisonment, the violations of rights in prisons, the bribery, the intensity of employment, the time-consuming cases; the issues of judicial guarantees, non-biased, the reasonable period of rights. The delay of the establishment of the law courts, the new establishment of the Supreme Court, the new constitution reform, the establishment of the HYSK, the freeing of custody of the Bars, the freeing of claims of corruption and bribery of the executive agencies, the subject of expertise and the establishment of legal medicine, the investigations, decisions, executions, massive problems must be investigated. The judiciary, which cannot bear the burden of 72.5 million populations, has become a ball of problems, while the extraordinary judiciary, the gang and political cases have problems that need to be resolved urgently until the government's representation and judges' elections. From the trial of the children, the crimes of the compound, the special authorities, the courts, the jurisprudence, until the assurance of a judge is provided in all areas, it is imperative that a rescheduling and resolving of the problems should be taken. We are going through the days of questioning the custody of the Ministry of Justice, the breaking of the popular belief that "burns with the dry" as Duverger put it, in the public conscience of the concept that "everyone can be guilty where there is no justice." To ensure independent judicial problems for this purpose and to ensure the conditions for fair trial; It would be helpful to open a parliamentary investigation and set up a commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Council of Counsellors has a proposal for the meeting date and time of conversation with the Central Management Budget Act of 2012 and the Central Management Act of 2010. I will make them read and process and vote for you. The following proposals were deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval at a meeting Tuesday (June 6/12/2011). 1 - 2012 Central Management Budget Bill and the Central Management Act for 2010 are in the 1st and 2nd positions of the Grand National Assembly Agenda, and budget talks 8/12/2011 Thursday at 14 p.m. Every day at 11 o'clock, including official holidays, until it starts at 00 and ends. Continued work from 00 to the completion of the day-to-day programme and the completion of talks in 14 days; talks on Wednesday (21/12/2011) are scheduled for the final day of budget talks. Starting at 00 and continuing to work until the end, 2- In the beginning, the entire budget could be used by more than one speaker (except the government's presentation speech) for groups and talks on behalf of the government.), limiting personal conversations to 10 minutes, 3- The completion of talks on public administration budgets in 12 rounds, the end of the tours, the vote on the provisions of Budget and Final Accounting Bills, 4- The 72nd Article of Internal Affairs shall be used in talks on behalf of groups and on behalf of the government by 1 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 11 rounds by 50 each, 40 minutes each (this time can be used by more than one speaker.), the fact that personal talks are five minutes each, in each round of personal talks, that one is promised to two members in favor of the 61st Article of Internal Affairs, one against the other, and that a member only registers on or on the entire budget or at the end of the budget. 5- In the budget talks, questions are asked without justification and questions are limited to 20 minutes for each round. 6-At the end of the budget talks, it can be used by more than one speaker to promise the groups and the government a period of one-to-one hours.). In accordance with Article 86 of the imposition, personal conversations are 10 minutes each. It's recommended. Haluk Koç, Samsun MP, demanding a word on the proposal and against it. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0014par0189	Mr. President, thank you. My dear friends, the Republican People's Party Group is a group proposal that comes with the signature of our Deputy President, with everyone's approval. I've been promised to share some thoughts. I'm completing your tenth year in Parliament, and this will be the tenth budget talks. My dear friends, first and foremost, budgets are the essence of politics, the mirror. You're going to say that these are long debates in the Commission. The Commission debates are a part of technicality, part of remaining talks. If you look at the budgets prior to 1980 -- in the minutes of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- in a very broad period of time in their talks, there has been all sorts of analysis of technical and political issues, and the political government has become one area where political opposition parties reflect all kinds of views, but today -- it was the same, not this year, but in the previous years -- in the 50 minutes of tours, within 50 minutes -- and the budgets of a political party group. So you divide fifty minutes into twenty-five, five, two ministries, six minutes, seven minutes, eight minutes, and in these times, as I just said, the most fundamental issue of politics is in favour and against. My dear friends, there is no politics without self-criticism. We all have to make self-criticism. Now, look, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey opened on October 1, 2011. Today is December 6, 2011. The Law on Violence in Sports -- which has also returned -- outside of international contracts -- has not discussed a serious bill and proposal in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Perhaps the most serious bill of law will come before us as the Budget Bill. And we're dealing with a time limit here. Now, how does Turkey's Grand National Assembly stand work? We have to do this self-criticism together. We all beat water in the air, dear friends, we all fill time on this bench as the side of various polemics. At various points, where the position of power is clear, two friends from ten minutes to ten minutes take the word of two friends from power, and we complete that day by taking the word of two friends from power. We all use the leg of Parliament to get the stones out of our skirts, unfortunately, all of us. My dear friends, we know that the budget is the most important document reflected in political practices, preferences. I believe that there must be time, recognition, or co-arrangement for serious political debates to take place here. In fact, we all have a structure that's afraid to argue. It has been a fundamental duty for all of us to carry out the discussion based on the basic view of the political camp we belong to. Other than that, there's another world, there's another view, and other than that, can we put another political dimension into it? None of us have that kind of search. It's a little bit -- we're making a little bit of a criticism -- of the Law on Political Parties and political parties in Turkey. In fact, we're all different from each other. We're all Ottoman Bank. So we don't want any talking, arguing, interrogating MPs. We're certainly not setting up an environment where the central authority is based on central authority, on the line drawn by central authority -- of course it's going to be discipline, except in the sense of discipline that I'm saying -- it's going to add something to it. My dear friends, that's why everyone needs to re-examine these concepts of democratization, especially the ruling party. We need some serious intimacy here, too. If we really want democratisation, real democratic institutions and rules to be established, first we need to democratize the Political Parties Act and the political parties' regulations based on this law. They must be legally guaranteed the right to enter the party. They must provide participation within the party. Those who come with the election must make a process of running a code of conduct, such as the election. Otherwise, who talks about democratization, who, by flagging him democratic themes and adorning him with a variety of slogans, walks around the podium and tells him in waxed words, not just himself, but everyone else. My dear friends, this will be my 10th budget talks. I'll leave it at your mercy, 50 minutes to a political party group, a calendar where the budgets of two ministries and institutions that belong to them are discussed, so six minutes, seven minutes to a friend of ours in the Ministry of Health, on behalf of the opposition party and scenes like this: What can he say in six minutes? He's gonna go off the deep end, address some local issues, and then there's an interesting theater scene. When the opposition party says that, the ruling party MP will come, and we will only praise the implementation of power during the time assigned to him, and we will complete that time with questions and answers, ready answers, dishes and dishes. There will be no parliamentary agenda, where political preferences are discussed in economic dimensions. For the first time, we have friends to join, and I've already wanted to tell them about the disappointment they're going to have. Unfortunately, that's what lawmakers do, but what are the heads of political parties doing? Likewise, in this air, they put very little of the general meaning into their talks and consume it in the daily polemics, and unfortunately, the speech I've seen at the Prime Minister for nine years is arranged at around 1900 p.m., and at around 1900 p.m., Mr. Prime Minister comes out of the budget, making a speech out of this chair that has been touched entirely by political polemics. We deceive each other, we continue to play democracy. My dear friends, we all have to protect the dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and of the parliamentary community. Let these be in the transcripts, and perhaps in later times, our fellow officers, at least someone can say those words from this stand. I'm asking you, this comes with the mutual decision of all groups -- it's always been -- I told my friends at the time to increase the time when the group was acting president, but they said it wasn't possible. I told you how much free time we've been using in Congress, instead of a Health Ministry budget, a Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget, don't you want every party to get up and discuss it for an hour, two hours, every size? What happens in six minutes, what happens in seven minutes? And, like promising everyone, group managers have a challenge. I feel like we're fooling each other here, and as I just said, in today's system, I'd like to express to you that we can't do our job as MPs. I hope you'll all consider this. In budget talks, I made a promise not to argue, but only to express problems in practice with a different view of how it should be. I wish you all the best in the negotiations. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0015par0202	Thank you, Mr. Coach. There's no further demands. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, the meeting programme in the General Assembly for the 2012 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2010 Central Management Computation Computation Act on the General Assembly of Turkey is on the website of the Grand National Assembly, which will also be published today. Members who want to make a statement on behalf of individuals on the budgets are registered on Wednesday (April 07/12/2011) at 09.45-10. In 15 hours, the Republican People's Party Group will be held in the meeting hall by members of the Clerk of the Presidential Court. Every member of the United States must personally make a record. There will be no record of anyone else. The lyrics on Wednesday (7/12/2011) will be made at the Laws and Decisions Directorate from 9:45 p.m. to 10:15 p.m. In accordance with the decision made by the General Assembly, each round over the entire budget, and at the end of the budget talks, it will be in favour and against, and only for one of them will be recorded as a personal statement. Ladies and gentlemen, please report to your information. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Tuesday (06/12/2011), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 30 November 2011, İzmir MP Aytun Çıray and his friends suggested that the Parliament Research Council, which was given to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey about "the full extent of its allegations regarding the TRT," be read in the same session in the same date, before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the General Assembly's information. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, İzmir MP Aytun Çıray. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0016par0225	Mr. President, honored members of the High Council, I salute you with love and respect. According to many supporters and commentators, AKP power will go down in history as it brings forward democracy, the story that is written to our people daily and told in the visual media. According to channel traveler-elected commentators, 90 years of taboos are breaking down, memorizing, an extraordinary wave of change is spreading. These commentators share the main opposition party's share of the criticism of status quo, anti-change and lack of vision. There's never been a media presence in the world that's been praised for so much vocalism and put only the opposition on the spot with complete hypocrisy. If you call this a communication success, I think this media is a historical achievement of AKP, but it's an embarrassing achievement. The historians of the near future will probably look at the exemplary reasons for this success, and they'll fall down with a note for history, but we're not historians, we're politicians, our responsibility and our duty is to open the window of truth to our people. Well, I'll tell you right now, I'm calling this new order a new media arrangement. Today's current order is the new media order. The AKP, which is the work of the new world order, has established a new media arrangement as the first order of business. The freedom of our nation's information is almost destroyed. Its goal is to create the most important of mechanisms that will make its power continuous, as a matter of fact. At the centre of the new media arrangement, he established the TRT (TRT), which should be constitutionally neutral. TRT violated the principles of unilaterally and unilaterally broadcasting in violation of the Constitution and Article 5 of the TRT Act. To ensure that, Mr. Ibrahim Şahin was made General Manager. Mr. Şahin did not bring only those of his ideological closeness to the very strategic tasks of the institution, but also the ties of kinship, co-friendship and community to those appointments. Now they're liquidating experienced staff. In addition, at this time, TRT was identified and registered as being out of law. On 14 January 2009, Tuncay South, one of the unknown rings of the operation chain known as Ergenekon, was spoken on TRT screens for nearly four hours. This unidentified dirty person attempted to infect the CHP's institutional figure with operational intents. The Republican People's Party has sued both the TRT General Manager and the TRT (TRT) and the unlawfulness has been registered with a final verdict. In addition to all of this, TRT has claimed the practice of providing financial benefit to AKP supporters. He competed with private television channels as if he was getting his income from advertising revenues in market conditions. For example, Mr. Hakan paid $ 728,000 a year to a football man who had no say in his sportsmanship and was a member of parliament among us. Thanks to Hakan, I wish he had satisfied his desire to interpret on other channels. However, that did not stop Falcon's TRT (TRT). What is it? They didn't like the Great Century! So they decided to do a new series, and the name of the show was called "The Ottomans." They made flyers on billboards saying, "Destan is starting." And what's the result? Mr. Hawk didn't like it, so they removed it after chapter three. And what was paid out of everyone's pocket for these three parts? That'll be $2,400,000. And there's money from Mr. Turgut Dibek, given to our President's advisor, so don't ask him about it! When you look at what's happened, you think that Mr. Bulent Arinc's conscience is selective. While the right of the servant is defeated, the conscience of Mr. Bulent Arinc is not working. God has not confused himself with the fear of God, nor with the Lighthouse, nor with the TRT. Congressmans, those who call themselves liberals amongst all those who condone these scandals are a disgrace because a liberal does not support any action against the rule of law. It seems some of their minds are stuck between their pockets and their wallets. Valuable MPs, the new media order was a recommendation reflected in the Wikileaks documents of the new Turkish establishment, with which the media was aligned, more or less. Some could not resist power to meet their opposition instincts, so they began to oppose the opposition. Some writers have also mastered the ability to present censorship and tyranny as a democratic revolution. Because these pens don't have the courage to face the system of bullying and censorship that we've been through. That's why they constantly attack the founding values of the republic, their minds think they're covering up their cowardice and their destructive nature. Congressmans, no matter how few we repeat, TRT is the central element of AKP's media order, the most operational tool; its mission is to convince Turkish people of AKP's achievements, to block the fact that the Crusader mentality is damaging the Muslim world. It's not coincidental to shorten the time and format of the assembly publications, it's censorship; you want to hide what's going on under this sacred roof from the nation, and we won't accept it and shut up, dear friends. Today, the TRT has become an ideological device of forces whose common denominator is the founding spirit and the Ataturk. The TRT must now be abolished in the new Constitutional studies, and instead a new public publishing institution must be formed. Mr. President, I'd like to give you an example of the value of the new media order. You all know Mr. Prime Minister Hasan Abi, Hasan Cemal Bey, who recently wrote about the preparation of public opinion. Here is the key to the AKP's new media arrangement, not informing the public, but preparing and rebuilding. For this, the truth is reversed, the most basic moral values are violated, freedom of opinion and expression is being used in AKP media order as an unrequited check, and the most unlikely things are being asked to account for to the opposition. And why is that? According to Zaman daily writer Mr. Etyen Mahçupyan, the AKP is to legitimize and even make him the only legitimate actor historically and ideologically. Dear members of the High Council, the stall, therefore, is a great sock for our nation's heads. The new media order is a propaganda device for the adoption of a despotic republic to our people. Serdar Turgut suggested that Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's poster be hung next to his posters; others have different goals, they want to rewrite history in their own way, and they dream of an authoritarian republic with no pictures of Mustafa Kemal. But these dreamers will all lick your palms. My deepest regards to all of you, my friends.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0017par0239	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Tunç, Bartın MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0018par0243	Yilmaz, you won't be a minister, don't worry!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0019par0244	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. Speaking ahead of me, we cannot possibly accept the statements of our friend, the congressman, who spoke in favor of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0018par0246	Because it's true! You won't accept them because they're true!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0019par0247	Turkey has taken significant distances in the area of democratisation over the past nine years. In the field of freedom of the press, the media also appreciates and monitors the increased quality of the quality of the TRT. The CHP group proposal is actually a group proposal aimed at disrupting the work of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Our opposition parties have been continuing this habit for about three years. As the ruling party, we want the legislature to work as ruling lawmakers, where the laws of this country, for the benefit of this nation, will be discussed and legalised without delay. However, at the point of delaying these laws, the group's proposal has been made a habit, given by the Civil Code. I would also like to say that we do not find it right that these proposals to disrupt the work of parliament should be put into place here using a distinguished institution, such as TRT, and that we do not find it right to wear down a constitutional institution. One of the essential conditions for our modern democracy is the existence of free media. The AK PARTY acknowledges the right of all citizens to free information and to reflect their thoughts. The entire legal framework of the media has been taken into consideration and the commitments to the removal of bans on freedom of expression and incompatible with the requirements of democratic society, that the freedoms of written and visual media will be meticulously protected and that there will be no opportunity to monopolize the EC PARTİ. In 2008, TRT Law No. 2954 made significant changes with Law 5767. The organisation, task, authority and responsibilities of Turkey's Radio Television Foundation, which has been ruled by the organisation and autonomy and neutrality of broadcasts from all media vehicles and radio and televisions have been redacted. According to the new regulation of the TRT Law, the literature bases have been redesigned. TRT, which adheres to the principles of commitment to the word and spirit of the Constitution, indivisible integrity of the state with its country and its nation, national sovereignty, republic, public order, public order, public interest, protecting and protecting the public interests, has taken great care in providing sufficient public coverage to ensure that public opinion is healthy and free; it is a one-way, non-partisan broadcaster, and that a political party, the group, the interests of the community, the faith or the interests of the thinking. The main opposition party has been sued by the Republican People's Party by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that certain provisions of Law 5767 and the Amendment to the TRT Law are in violation of the rules of neutrality. In the Constitutional Court's decision, autonomous institutions in democratic countries are also trying to prevent them from falling into joy by subjecting them to legal and democratic control. For this reason, TRT is also under control, as is the case with other autonomous institutions in our country. According to Article 8 of Law 2954, the Institution conducts its relations with the government through the Prime Minister. The purpose of my inspection is to ensure that the institution operates in accordance with the universal principles of the public interest and profession. This audit cannot be described as an authority to ensure that institutional publications are directed in accordance with preferences and interests of executive organs. The Constitutional Court has not seen the Republican People's Party's claims to be justified. The Constitutional Court has stated that autonomy means that individuals and organisations are equipped with the necessary authority to make and implement decisions regarding their own activities, while also expressing the protection of institutions against external influences. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the AK PARTY governments, have put a great deal of emphasis on TRT. The TRT is a public broadcaster, organized in the Constitution, with a law. He has strong resources and uses them for our nation in the best possible way. In the past, the TRT has always been a subject of criticism, with negative criticism at the point of both publication and neutrality. In recent years, Turkey's Radio and Television Agency has been carrying out the need for responsible and impartial broadcasting. Today, TRT has become a television that has been watched by millions of people on all the continents of the world with 14 channels. In them, not only in Turkish, but in Arabic, in Kurdish, with eight different languages in TRT Avaz (TRT), with radios broadcasting in more than 30 different languages, with web pages, TRT has taken a huge leap. There is no way to accept the issues mentioned in the Republican People's Party's research motion on the TRT. Our nation appreciates the success of the TRT (TRT) in recent years, the understanding of neutral literature. The motion for research is a group proposal to disrupt the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey using an important institution such as TRT. That's why I say I'm against the group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0262	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0021par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0264	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0021par0265	Mr. Congressman has publicly insulted our group by saying that the motion was given to hinder and disrupt the Parliament's work.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0266	Please, Mr. Slim. No, what you're saying has nothing to do with the insult, anything to do with...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0021par0268	Mr. President, a parliamentary inquiry motion is not given to hinder or disrupt the Parliament's work. That's an insult. Please allow me to make a statement about this.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0269	No, but this has nothing to do with... What do you mean, Mr. Slim?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0021par0271	Do we file a parliamentary inquiry motion to prevent Parliament from working, or do we issue it to investigate? We're giving it to investigate.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0022par0272	He didn't use his statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0273	Mr. Ünal, please. Why don't you have a seat?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0021par0274	He also said "block" and "absorption." He used both statements. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0275	Your testimony has already been filed, Your Grace. You've already made your point.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0021par0276	Mr. President, I'm the party's Deputy Group President.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0277	You're the vice president of the group, we have no objection to that. We're not discussing your position as Group President, and no one's going to argue.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0021par0278	There is an insult to the corporate personality of the party. That motion was not submitted by a single MP, but by the Republican People's Party Group. So he made an accusation to the group. Let me explain.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0020par0279	Here you go, Mr. Slim. I'll give you two minutes for bullying under the 69th Amendment. Although I don't know if there's a tease or not. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0023par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we only reproach a private television station, and we say: You're giving too much room for power, you're not giving us space. That's not the TRT. TRT is nobody's father's farm. There are 74 million in the TRT, and we have our share. We want what's rightfully ours. Do we pay TORT (TRT) on our electric bill? Is everyone paying? My citizen in Tripoli, my citizen in Mersin, my citizen in Yalova, my citizen in Haqkari, everyone pays for this TRT share. That's what we're saying. Our problem is to block the House, not ensure the House doesn't work. We want to investigate them. Come on, let's go. Every time the Prime Minister takes the stand, live broadcasts continue, no opposition. Why, then, is the voice of Parliament TV being cut down, and why is it hiding from the public? There's no one here after 7:00. For hours, TRT broadcasts to power; when it comes to opposition, it's gone. Our problem is that the literature is constantly insulting the CHP. He's been convicted of this, TRT, inmate. He paid us for it. Don't we see that? We can't just... We're not watching TRT. We don't want our citizens watching. Don't watch. This is the trumpet of power, this is the vuvuzela of power. We'd like the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate them. In the past few days, I and 13 of my friends went to the front of the TRT, where we made our statement to the press. We said, "Stop being the trumpet of power, and stop being the trumpet of power." We have money there, we want our rights, we don't get anything from anybody. We don't want any favors. We want the rights of 74 million, we want him investigated. But, of course, again, you will not be doing this research with your majority fingers, but you will continue to lower our voice on Parliament TV. But we'll see how far that goes. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0024par0291	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Millendereli, you have a request to speak, but we are discussing the Republican People's Party group proposal. Article 69 of the Civil Code is open. We can make promises on both sides and on both sides. I can't promise you that. Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0025par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're having another futile discussion. I don't remember what kind of group proposal this TRT is for, what number of research proposals. We talk here every time. Of course, our friends, the group's vice president of the AKP, are pleased. They don't want it investigated, they don't want it discussed. There's nothing wrong with them. TRT has already held all of the Prime Minister's meetings, holding ministers' meetings, and giving the opinion of AKP officials. What kind of democracy is that? I appeal to your conscience. What's a non-oppositional democracy? So where will the opposition call out? Where will he make his voice? You can't even stand the broadcast of a group meeting. Where are we really going to talk? So if 90 percent of the media are allies, the rest are silenced, repressed, digested. At least here we had a chance to report you to the public. Take him with you, squeeze him. Let's check it out. What do you got? Won't the AKP already be a member of this research commission? So when you get there, you'll have your opinion there. It's not a democracy without opposition. Come and listen to us. Take advantage of what we say. Don't be in the mood for power. I mean, I'm curious. Everything's fine, everything's fine, says Mr. Bronze. We asked you last time. Now he's the minister, Mr. Suat Kılıç was here. I still haven't heard back. I asked him, I'll send him. He said. I'm curious, I'd like a year or a month's worth of paperwork, if the authorities have it. If you're defending the TRT as such a ruling group. It's supposed to be an autonomous institution. I was wondering, how many minutes did you give news of the National Movement Party, how many minutes a month, how many minutes in 2011 did you give? I'm curious. And how many minutes have passed the news of the AKP, not as a party, but as ministers, the prime minister, the prime minister's deputy prime minister; what news programme, what meeting, how many MHP officials have you called? How many of them were attended by the MPP? I want them to send us a transcript. They'll be watching us from here, talking about themselves. Now, here, the TRT public institution. Our friends counted the reason for the motion. He's got eight separate sources of income. Most of these revenues are made up of taxes, cuts, fees, whatever they are. It's what the entire Turkish nation pays. So why are you shutting up the opposition? Doesn't the opposition represent the nation? So your conscience really accepts this? I don't understand. Are you going to lift your finger now in the power struggle, or do you think it's because you really believe? I can't see it. So the budget will come from the citizen, but the right to information of the citizen will be denied the right to listen to what the opposition has to say. There's a lot of other assignments on the other side. Now, along with the newly released KHK, Mr. Vice-General sent an article to tell us where the surplus is and where it's needed. It's like we took those extras. The same was discussed in the Parliamentary Law. Who took those staff and who overdid it? It's always stopping. On this occasion, they too will be displaced and retired, but they will be replaced. I'm afraid we're in a bit of a mess here. Dear friends, we have new congressman friends. It's been talked about in the past few years. I told you that TRT is now Ak RT. For those of you who don't know, I'll repeat it, but we're past that, and I'm afraid it's the trumpet of power. TRT is not being monitored. TRT is not being monitored. We used to watch TRT News at least once, because now we can't watch TRT2, because he doesn't say anything different anymore, he's manipulating power to us. He just doesn't do the news. Look, we wouldn't object to him if he made the news of power. The TRT is no longer reporting, it's manipulating, it's manipulating, it's creating information pollution through the news. Unfortunately, Ak has gone beyond being RT. At the time, the Prime Minister had a warning: "Don't call us "APP" or "AK PARTY." That's why I said "Ak RT" but now I'm calling it "Black RT". I've taken back the Aq. From now on, if it continues to be such a trumpet, if it continues to be like the ruling party's broadcaster, like the Pravda, then I've given up on the Ak RT, then I'm going to call it radio television. We said, "Dear friends, TRT is cutting us off." We spoke in 2008 when the TRT Law was discussed upstairs, where we spoke in motions again. Now, there's TRT Shash, good, you're making a frequency; there's TRT. We say give the media TV a channel frequency. It says we have a frequency problem. Why don't you publish it now after 1900? I told you last time we were talking about the TBM Agency's Law. I'm repeating my suggestion. Dear friends, we've just received a notice from the vulgar television establishments. Come, the Speaker of Parliament is here to tender this as he bids the game, as he gives the game broadcasts to private televisions. The House has a corporate personality. The Speakership is here, so don't let the TRT take us to prison. If they don't find it broadcastable, look, let alone, how much demand will come from private televisions. Number one is going to break the ratings. If you let us and allow us to talk, if you agree that the opposition has the right to speak without seeing the opposition's proposals as an obstacle to the law, then you will also make the voice of opposition here, and you will learn from the warnings from there, and we will complete what is missing. Don't take what's not yours again, you've got a majority of your fingers up and down; we've agreed. You say, "We didn't." For him, dear friends, on the one hand, with the allocation of the frequency to TRT Shesh, on the one hand with the Arabic broadcasts, on the one hand, there's a lot of, 14 separate networks that TRT is proud to broadcast, and in this way, there's no frequency given to the TBMM TV TV, and in the same way as the Parliamentary presidency did last week, there's really been a development to be heard that even group meetings are being broadcasted in the law proposal we agreed on top. We said, "The TRT doesn't give them here." TRT's giving up publishing our work. On the other hand, we're looking at TRT. The direction is unfortunately continuing, and the day before -- my friends just sent out -- reporters from the TRT News and the Daily newspaper, which is the publishing body of the Kurdistan Workers' Party -- have come out here, in the news programme, allowing for broadcasts to be made, in exchange, in Turkish history, and in the way that Mr. Prime Minister has set out, to make it look like a massacre, insulting Turkish history, and trying to make a riot look like a massacre. On the other hand, we're looking at Turkish culture -- old, in our childhood -- there's nothing left to speak to us in Turkish except for a few of the TRT. We have a chance to watch choirs from time to time in TRT Music. Unfortunately, the contents have been emptied and have become the farm of İbrahim Şahin. Unfortunately, in the coming process, valuable friends have emerged from correspondence about the start of exiles in terms of personnel, as well as the destruction of the rest, which unfortunately has become a TRT tool for these instructions. In this program, it is said that 38 soldiers have been martyred. On the other hand, they are being brought out and debated, as you say, not as a rebellion, but as a massacre. On this side, I just told you, is there any study of the MHP? No. Do they invite us to meetings? No. Previously, here at times, we know why there is an office in the House, whether our friends call for fifteen minutes, half an hour at noon or so, when there's budget time, they were telling us: "Come, hocam, let's make an assessment of the budget. We've given up politics, even our views on the economy, and the power trumpet against us in TRT. I don't know if they really believe they'll appreciate it, or if they're afraid of the Prime Minister because they're afraid of the pressure and the Prime Minister. The archives are here, Mr. President. Ask, look. The budget's out this year. I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, where we worked with friends for a month. Today our friends from TBMM TV just arrived. I'm talking about TRT. Here is the news channel of TRT2, where they make programs from Parliament at noon. So, for one day, here are my friends from the Plan and Budget Commission, and here are the CHP members, and aside from the news they've been getting there on their feet, I'm afraid there hasn't been a news program of other reporters sitting down. So, my dear friends, come, put your hand on your conscience -- this is TRT, it's the public institution, it's the autonomous budget, it's broadcasting from here with our money -- don't object to being investigated. You will be a member of this commission, and if there is injustice, they will be removed, and the TRT institution will be able to broadcast properly. Let the TRT stop being the trumpet of power, folks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0026par0317	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0027par0321	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal from the Republican People's Party. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to make it clear to our friend Yilmaz Bronzeç Bey, who was just speaking here -- Mr. Deputy Group Chairman, CHP's Deputy Group Chairman -- to correct a misunderstanding. A motion to open a parliamentary investigation has not been used here. The testimony used here is that, of course, all of our fellow lawmakers can make a motion to investigate each issue using the rights of the Civil Code, the Constitution, for the opening of parliamentary research on every issue. It's been given, and it's on the agenda. What we object to today is the Council's working schedule, working hours, working hours. The most important international contracts are on the agenda of our House. At the point where the meeting today interferes with the work of the Parliament, I've made this statement in terms of opening up a conversation, meaning that group proposals can be brought in every day, and more verbal questions can be answered here, and the issues on the agenda can be discussed. With the TRT law of our time, TRT has indeed achieved a dynamic structure, and has been a public institution that has been often mentioned in recent years by its achievements in publishing, following its administrative and technical arrangement. The administrative and financial structure of the TRT (TRT) has been set up, and the balance of power and responsibility has been established by increasing business efficiency, and its benefits and costs have been calculated, manageable dynamic organizational structures. On the contrary, over 200 directors, vice principals, vice presidents, district managers have been revoked. About 7,500 people worked in the institution ten years ago, and now the number has reached around 7,200. 95 per cent of the staff for the TRT are KPSS students with the best scores of the best universities. Young people who have received the highest score from the KPSS test are also placed in the TRT, and the publishers of the future are also raised. TRT grew up with existing income pens, which failed to pay off the salary of a former civil servant, increased its technical investment from 20 million euros to 160m euros today, and the number of channels to 15. We've been told there's been a blackout of current electricity shares. Despite the decline of electricity in our time, the revenues of the TRT have increased, and advertising revenues have reached record levels of up to 350 per cent. Mr. Speaker here says that TRT has become an unwatched channel. What big company would advertise on an unwatched channel? An increase in advertising revenues of 350 per cent stands on the balance sheet of TRT.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0028par0327	66% are paid by citizens!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0027par0328	Those of you who did not speak during the time of the TRT (TRT) with one channel and 10,000 employees, do not see that 15 TV channels today are run by 7,000 employees with 16 radio stations, perhaps blindfolded. Due to the lack of sufficient investment, sound and light systems have been renovated during this period, and automation systems for modern broadcasting have been established. Current studios have been renovated, unusable places, and new HD-compliant studios have been established by catching the idea of publishing the future. So far, 10 new studios have been built, and all the cameras have been renovated, and live broadcasters have been taken. Today, TRT 15 has become a major media group with 15 television channels, 15 radio stations, 3 magazines. The TRT broadcasts averaged 617 programs per day, 4.319 per week on average, and 18.510 different programmes per month. There is no media group in Turkey that can approach those figures. The TRT also does not violate the principle of neutrality in its publications; TRT adopted and applied the principles of neutral, non-verbal, rapid journalism in its publications. Regarding the fine of $82,000 on the research proposal, this is a live broadcast accident, and the sentence of live broadcast guests has been imposed on TRT. The People of the CHP have not filed any lawsuits against the speaker, and while they have not been told or done, the TRT has been punished for this action during the live broadcast. Neutrality is also essential in the news and interpretations of the TRT. It is also registered in the referendum and election process. Regarding this, the case against executives who have been held in the referendum on biased broadcasts has been filed in Ankara 9. The original Criminal Court's 2010/747 fundamental and 2011/405 fundamental decision was also decided, and the executives in question have been acquitted. Also in connection with the institution's allegations that it has been cast, the lawsuit against Oda TV executives Soner Yalçın and Barış Terakoğlu and the KESK Haber-Sen Union has been filed against relatives and parishal staffing in Ankara 9. The original court's 2009/2222 has concluded with the original court verdicts, 2010/195, with detailed reviews of the institution's last seven-year personnel movements, and the defendants' claims related to the cult, the community, and the association of relatives have been refuted.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0029par0334	Is that paper from TRT?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0027par0335	The decision is in question, Supreme Court 4. It's dated 16/12/2010...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0029par0336	Did they send that paper from TRT?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0027par0337	...and number 2010/14243...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0029par0338	Look, it says "TRT" on it. Look, it says "TRT" on it.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0027par0339	...which has been passed and confirmed.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0029par0340	Look, it says "TRRT" on it. You can see it from here, it says "TRT".
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0027par0341	Also, the Flood has been published by Turkenç.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0029par0342	It's TRT's letter. Recep Special (Secondly) -...and claims to have been cast at the institution, Ankara 4. He has been rejected by the Court of Peace. Now, I'm going to leave all the bad things that are said about the AK PARTY here to the public's discretion. What we do is obvious, what the AK PARTY is doing, or rather, the principles of publishing that TRT have done. I'm just saying that it's unlikely that the ratings of being watched in an organization that increases ad revenue by about 350 percent are incompatible with the facts. I say we don't agree with the CHP's group proposal, that our Parliament must continue its regular agenda, and I give you all a lot of respect, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0030par0347	Mr. Special, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0029par0348	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0030par0349	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0029par0352	Mr. President, you're going to vote, and we want roll call.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0030par0353	Okay, I'll do it. I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a request for a roll call, and I'll carry it out. Mr. Ozcan, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tüner, Mr. Öner, Mr. Öğüpeer, Mr. Earth, Mr. Gök, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Akova. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/12 My Original Law Proposal, Internal Charter 37. I'd like to submit to your knowledge of the nature of the matter of a direct agenda. The bidder is Tanju Özcan, Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0031par0376	Mr. President, you may recall that last week, I shared with you my thoughts on the 40th article of the Forest Law, which is the first leg of my amendment motion, in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code. And today I am here to share with you my thoughts on the 82nd Article of the Forest Law, which is still part of my proposal. Sir, my proposal for the amendment to the 82nd Amendment of the Law of the Forest is based on the following: My deputies, who live with the forest village, may not know; we have a large number of people who have been wrongfully punished for forest crime in Turkey, and we have thousands of citizens. The foundation of this is that the law enforcement officer's report was given to the citizen to prove otherwise. I say, if the forest keeper has filed a report, let him prove it to himself, and let him not leave the burden of evidence to the citizen. There's no chance of anyone finding witnesses in the woods. In that sense, if this arrangement is done this way, I think thousands of innocent people have a chance of getting away with it. Congressmans, of course, I would like to share with you my special happiness. I have already stated that I am a representative of a city in which forest villagers live very densely, and I am a representative of Bolu. According to Mr. Director General of the Forest, I am a representative of the province of Bolu. I regret to say, especially since 2004, since the second year of the AKP government's rule, unfortunately, the AKP's Authority has begun to look at forests as areas not as forests, but as gains or gains for supporters, and do you know what happened as a result? The forest peasant has gone further back than he did ten years ago. The numbers are out there today, folks. Look at the forest villager's production prices ten years ago, look at the production prices ten years later; look at how much the forest villager got the diesel ten years ago; look at how much it was selling from the stand ten years ago; look at this, now look at how much it was selling from the stand, and listen to the goal of selling from the forest director's foundation, and then decide if this friend of yours is telling the truth, is he telling the truth? Most of you may not understand what I'm saying. It's obelisk sales -- I've expressed it last week -- it's only about attracting forests to supporters, contractors. Until today, the forests of the peasant are now the forest of the contractor. The forest peasant was a villager until today, with this arrangement being tried to become a forest worker, a builder's worker, and ten days ago the director of the forest says in Bolu: Our sale is now around 10 percent, this year we have the goal of taking advantage of more forest villagers from the forest to 50 percent in the coming period. Let him be a wood peasant, a forest worker, and let him be content with whatever the contractor gives him. He says, "I want to share it with you." Of course, dear friends, we have a lot to say about the forest, but we have one minute left, and I'd like to share with you one thing that is very disturbing to me: last week we worked here until the middle of the night, and we passed a sad law called the law of the revolution in public. Mr. President -- it's just been read -- vetoed it as a personal arrangement. Of course, where was the special arrangement in this law? I don't know. How did the President figure this out? I didn't understand that either, but it occurred to me that we may not understand your agenda, your secret agenda very well, but until yesterday, I'm wondering if Mr. President, sitting with you, understands this better than we do. I wonder if there's really a special arrangement in this. With all due respect, I can think of two of our visually impaired citizens eating together. I'm asking you, is there really a special arrangement in this law for someone we don't know about? I want an answer to that. Otherwise, Mr. President understands how you take the fillers in twos and twos. I'm waiting for an answer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit01spe0032par0385	Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP, who has asked for a statement on behalf of a member of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ercoshkun, you have a voice request, but here we can promise an MP who has an offer. Mr. President, I have made a promise in favor of the direct agenda of the proposal for the amendment to the Law on the Forest Law of our Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. I salute your committee. Before I begin, Turkey woke up to a new day this morning. You know, there was an early raid on the Light newspaper this morning. Other than that, an operation was launched into Atakum Municipality today as part of an operation launched by Republican People's Party municipalities. I condemn the people who did this operation, and I want to express it first. Now, with this group proposal, I'd like to bring up some of the practices related to the forest law, which has been bleeding in the Black Sea in connection with the amendment of our MP's law. Unfortunately, in all cases involving the Forest General Directorate, we know that if you look at the averages of Turkey, especially the averages in the Black Sea, many cases have not been followed by lawyers, and in cases followed by lawyers, we face a concrete fact that the power of attorney fees are on the side of the defendant. Unfortunately, in cases involving the forest, lawyers put up a hesitation in entering these cases, and they don't take these cases, and they most likely end up in favor of the forest, most of the time. Supreme Court 20. A property issue is faced with the presence of the Black Sea's vast vegetation of the forest, and unfortunately property cases are negatively concluded. We believe that local courts are unable to rule in favour of these cases, and that they are expected to decide in favor of their consciences in the external negotiations, but they are faced with a heavy set of walls. Now, while local courts are making some of these decisions, they're taking some of them on their own. The green area, painted areas from the local forest management departments are unfortunately judged by the courts as evidence against them. Once again, when the courts make these decisions, they take two basic points on their own basis. One of them is aerial photos, and one of them is country maps. Since the aerial photos are maps of 1956 and pre-historic history, I'd like to present to the High Council how healthy you are. Other than that, maps organised by the Map General Command, which we can refer to as country maps, which should be based on here, unfortunately contain a number of indications that are far from objective assessments, why? Because these maps are military-organized maps, and because they have no botany value in any way, the decisions made by these maps are not healthy, they are not objective. Here are the experts' boards, where the courts have taken Nazititibara, which unfortunately are not carried out by those who are members of the Forest Engineers' Chamber, but by an expert who has more universities, academic careers, non-executive, and has strict rules in their forest formation. Unfortunately, the statements of financial experts, the statements of witnesses, and the ownership documents they're holding are not respected. Now, at this point, private administration records, personal administration records, taxes that people have paid to the municipality and the real estate office, but unfortunately they are not taken into account in court decisions. The most important documentary record for these is also ignored for one reason: due to the search for geographical and coordinate harmony in the old deed accounts, the new status is compared with the old deed, which must be finalized because there is no geographical and coordinate compatibility, as well as the old deed records, which need to be considered as evidence. In these five minutes, I would like to point out that there is a serious property problem in the Black Sea. People lose their land for years because of these shortcomings in 6831, where they have used it for centuries, from their ancestors, from their grandparents. At the coming point, the problem of forest quality in the Black Sea, forest litigation, is no longer a problem for those people, a social dimension, which has almost reached the point of detonation. Can you imagine, in a file, both the agricultural land report is being reported and the forest is being called, and unfortunately, it's not being respected by the report given by the Supreme Court, it's being concluded with what's called the forest, and it's being faced with a negative painting. I believe the House will solve these problems in the coming period. I would like to express my support for the agenda of this motion that my congressman friend has made. I salute your high council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Moving on to verbal questions on the agenda. Health Minister Recep Akdağ wanted to answer questions in the oral questions of 1, 2, 18, 27, 32, 37, 38, 39, 152, 165, 181, 206, 210, 221, 228, 236, 238, 240, 242, 246, 292, 295, 299, 318, 343, 379 and 389. Now I'm going to make you read these questions in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. 12.7.2011 In Erzurum Pacene, our citizens' only livelihoods are agriculture and livestock. The Sürbahan Dam in Paceni is watering part of the Plain of Lower Pasin. But it doesn't water the plains of Upper Pasin. This is causing tensions between the cattlemen and the villagers of Alver, which provide their livelihood with agriculture and livestock. In order for this situation not to continue, the DSI must comfort the villagers by making a pond. 1- Will there be a pond built on Erzurum Paisen Wolf Creek? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. At Esenyurt State Hospital, our doctors are constantly beaten and beaten. For these attacks on our doctors in this hospital, 1- What measures have been taken by your ministry so far? The cause of the two-to-one attacks has been investigated by your Ministry? 3-How many doctors have left this hospital for safety reasons? 4- Why has your Ministry been so insensitive to the matter so far? 5- What are the reasons for these attacks? Does it have anything to do with the treatment and service of patients? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ. 15.7.2011 Twenty-nine thousand and five hundred and twenty-six thousand and fifty-six doctors, 30,830 practitioners and 7,311 assistants across the country, 67,667 doctors, and 25,15 of them work in private health care, at university hospitals and 22,574 of them in private health care. 1- In Ardahan, 87 doctors work. There are 5 counties and 230 villages in Ardahan (Ardahan), with more than 105 thousand inhabitants, and it has spread to a large geography. Will you have a study to make sure that the number of doctors is inadequate and that the number of attendings is greater? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ. 20.7.2011 Those who enter the sea and pool to cool down and cool down in the summer may face accidents such as drownings, spinal injuries, fractures, and paralysis, while increasing travel brings toxicity, insect stings, and infections. In particular, dirty seas and pools cause various diseases. 1) Have you done a study to help citizens who go to sea and pools to spend their summer vacations in good health, to clean up the seas and pools in advance, and to take the necessary precautions, since the number of people entering such places has been known to be increasing day by day? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Prof. Dr. Hülya Trust The total population of Beydağ and Bayındır districts in İzmir is around 55,000. The vast majority of this population live on agriculture and messy village settlements. The total number of villages in our two districts without hospitals is 57, while citizens living in districts and villages have to go to other districts to receive health care and have difficulty with transportation. For this reason, the geographical positions of these two districts must be considered, while the locals are given health care. 1) Is it possible to establish district hospitals in Beydağ and Bayındır districts? 2) How do you provide health care in a village in emergency situations? 3) Is ambulance service especially in villages? If so, how long has the ambulance had access to the villages? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Prof. Dr. Hülya Trust The total population of Karaburun district, 13 villages and one village, is 105km from Izmir, while the total population of Karaburun is 10,000, is more than 50,000 in summer. The number of family physicians in the district is 3 and one of these family physicians operates in the village of Mordogan, which is owned by Karaburun. 41% of the population is known to be over 50 years old and many have various chronic diseases. Therefore, patients are at least 85km to receive health care if the family physician is not sufficient. They must go to the hospital in Urla district at a distance. 1-Do you plan to build a state hospital in Karaburun district with at least 100 beds? 2- What kind of health and social services are provided for the elderly in Karaburun district? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Prof. Dr. Hülya Trust The fact that social and psychological factors are also effective in the formation of diseases has been brought to the attention of family medicine because of the high cost of staying in the hospital. There is only one health worker to serve alongside the family physician. However, family medicine is required to serve with a well-equipped, broad staff of health staff. For example, in Portugal, 1,500 family physicians have fallen, while 2,500 people have been identified in our country. 1 - As a family physician and a medical team to a thousand people in our country, can a new arrangement be made by the state for nurse, midwife, medical secretary and laboratory support? The lack of health care units on the grounds that population density is low poses a threat to the local public. Can you create units with emergency support workers in the villages and villages? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Dr. Reşat Right Between 2010-2011, what is the number and ratio of C-sections throughout Turkey? What's the number and ratio of C-sections in the slap county? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I move that my following question be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Dr. Reşat Right Question: how many oral and dental clinics and dentists are there in the town of Tokat? When will you begin the construction of the Slap Dental Hospital? Do you consider working as a dentist in family medicine? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Yours truly. The study suggests that those who can't stay on the Internet for more than four hours a day are addicts, and those who spend three hours on the Internet are on the edge of addiction, and dependency is increasing, and drug and alcohol addiction will become a threat in the future. 1) Is there any research in this direction in our country? Do you agree with the allegations in the investigation? 2) Do you have a study to prevent internet addiction as dangerous as alcohol and drug addiction? Or are you prepared in that direction? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health will answer my following questions verbally. As is known, a certain amount of medical fees from our patients who have been examined at official health care institutions or private health care institutions and some of this requires that they be collected through pharmacy, causing different problems for our citizens and pharmacists. 1) What is the amount of medical fees received from our citizens who are currently being examined at official or private health care institutions? 2) Do you have a study to remove this application or to apply it equally at both health institutions? If so, what is the content and application calendar of the study? 3) What is the reason for the collection of a certain portion of medical fees through pharmacy? 4) Is it known that this has caused unpleasantness between our citizens and our pharmacists? Is this practice considered to be removed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ. 10.10.2011 1) At Kozan State Hospital, patients are said to have been referred to private hospitals for lack of doctors. 2) What measures will you take as ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. Yours truly. İstanbul Esenyurt also serves in certain neighborhoods of our districts, along with the State Hospital, Esenyurt districts of Beylikdüzü and Başakşehir. Since this hospital serves a very dense environment, the capacity is so inadequate, it's a period of trouble by the relatives of the sick, our doctors and hospital staff are being beaten. Our Esenyurt State Hospital needs to increase its capacity for bed and admission. Does your ministry have any work to do with this? With what measures will the intensity of the Esenyurt State Hospital be resolved? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. Yours truly. Istanbul Başakşehir district is a very disorganized area. It is 30 km from the district of Gölköy, Bahçeşehir, Doveltepe and Sandzaktepe and the state hospital. Besides, there's no public transportation. Our citizens in these areas are having significant difficulties with the hospital. The urgent solution to the problem is to build a public hospital in Bahçeşehir. What is your ministry's opinion and opinion on this matter? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. Yours truly. People's hospitals and doctors who serve in our universities' medical schools are leaving their jobs. From 30,06,2011 to today, how many doctors have left public hospitals and medical schools in our country? What titles are our attending physicians in, what public hospitals and what medical schools did they leave? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. Yours truly. The 657 edition of the Official Journal of August 26, 2011 has imposed bans on physicians working in different institutions with the amendments to the Law and the Amendment to Some Law and Law provisions. Number 28 of the 657 Law. There are many health institutions involved in the ban. From 30,06,2011 to today, how many doctors have left public hospitals and medical schools in our country? What are your efforts to fill the gap of the attending physicians? What happened to the academic studies of the medical faculty teachers who left the post? Do you have any efforts to repair health care defects? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. Yours truly. İstanbul Esenyurt also serves certain neighborhoods of our districts, along with the State Hospital, Esenyurt district and Beylikdüzü and Başakşehir districts. Since this hospital serves a very dense environment, the capacity is so inadequate, it's a period of trouble by the relatives of the sick, our doctors and hospital staff are being beaten. Our Esenyurt State Hospital needs to increase its capacity for bed and admission. Does your ministry have any work to do with this? With what measures will the intensity of the Esenyurt State Hospital be resolved? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. Yours truly. Istanbul Başakşehir district has a very disorganized structure and many neighborhoods. The districts of Gölköy, Bahçehir, Doveltepe and Sandzaktepe are 30 km from the district centre and state hospital. In addition, public transportation is limited. Citizens living in these areas are having considerable difficulties with the use of hospital service. The urgent solution to the problem is to build a public hospital in Basakşehir. What is your ministry's opinion and opinion on this matter? Do you have a project to build hospitals in the areas mentioned? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Minister of Health Sn of my following questions. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. 13.10.2011 Op. Dr. Arif Cloud The Talasemi Centre, which is planned to serve the province of Antalya with great difficulties and difficulties, has been published in the media today about the failure of any of its grounds, its failure to use them in accordance with its purpose, and the loss and misery of the patients. 1) Why and for what purpose did the building that the philanthropists had built as the Talasemi Center begin as the Hematology Department of Antalya Education and Research Hospital? 2) Has the equipment of seven bone marrow transplant chambers, built within the Talasemi Center, which is very important for our country and Antalya, been completed and opened? If not, what are the reasons? 3) Why are sleeping units not available to patients at the Talasemi Center, and why are these units for patients not being used for purpose? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ. Prof. Dr. Nurettin Demir Retired Veteran Petty Officer Seyfi Togo (52), who was in Datça during the holiday, was ill at 12:08.2011, and there were not enough specialists at Datça State Hospital 71 km. He was transferred to Marmaris State Hospital at a distance. He's not diagnosed here, and he's not sick anymore, so it's 02. It was reported that he had a ruptured heart artery at the Muğla State Hospital, where he was transferred at 00. He died on the road at around 5:00 p.m. on his way to Denizli, where he was transferred for surgery. 1 - Who is responsible for the death of Saifee Togo? 2- What are the reasons why there are 10 emergency medical technicians at Datça State Hospital, but no emergency medical technicians at KPSS? 3- Why is not sufficient health care provided at Datça State Hospital? 4- How many county hospitals in our country do we have that are not experts? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Minister of Health for my following questions is Mr. Prof. Dr. I demand that Recep Akdağ respond verbally. Yours truly. Istanbul is one of the largest districts of Istanbul. Our citizens in our county are spreading across a vast area. The problem of the state hospital in this district, which is adjacent to our districts of Silivri, Çatkca and Beylikdüzuzu, is the main problem. Our citizens in the capital are in a very difficult situation. There is no full state hospital in the district, and there is no public hospital near the region. The people of the county are in a very difficult position. Is there any study of the construction of a fully-fledged state hospital in your ministry? What do you intend to do about it, which is the most important problem for citizens? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health will answer my following questions verbally. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light It has been known to the public that your ministry has been contractually employed and the problems of health personnel and the victims of these problems have increased day by day. On the subject of this matter, 1) How many employees are still employed under contract in your Ministry? What's the total share of contracted personnel? 2) What are the distributions of contracted personnel that started in 2003-2011 according to years and titles? 3) Do you have a study to resolve the family disintegration problem initiated by the application of contract personnel to meet the need for personnel in the eastern and southeast provinces of our country? 4) If so, where is the study? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health will answer my following questions verbally. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, the province of Kütahya was a province that did not receive the health care services it deserved for its high vote support during AKP rulings. Many health clinics, health homes, or hospitals that were built during pre-AKP administrations cannot provide services due to lack of staff or lack of resources. Regarding the lack of medical personnel in the province, 1) What is the number of specialists, practitioners, and assistant medical staff who are still serving in the province of Kütahya? 2) What are their distributions according to the counties? 3) During your ministry, what was the number of health clinics, health homes, or hospitals that were unusable in the province of Kütahya? How are they considered to be evaluated? 4) What measures have been taken or taken by your ministry to address the lack of medical staff and equipment across the province of Kütahya? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Health, Mr. Recep Akdağ. 24/10/2011 1) What did you do about the attack on the doctor in charge of Adana's sample education and research hospital? 2) Do you go over violence with physicians and health workers? 3) Are the responsible found and tried? 4) Do violent ones receive necessary punishments? 5) Are the authorities sincere in sensing the fulfillment of events? 6) It is said that irregularities in health care institutions are intended to be shown as physicians responsible for poor management in health care? Is that correct? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Health Minister Recep Akdağ. Yours truly. The neighborhoods of Eunuchköy, Station and Hospital are the neighborhoods of the Albanian village. There are 500-600 production facilities in this region and tens of thousands of jobs are being created. However, although it has a very large population, a health clinic and health care are not provided in the region. The nearest hospital to the region is the Albanian village State Hospital 20km away. 1) Will you first make a study of whether a new health facility is urgently necessary for the centre of production and employment, Eunuchköy? 2) Are you going to work on making a new hospital in this area that is urgently needed? 3) Would you first consider the use of a military hospital that had previously served in the area, was still not used, and was empty? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Yours truly. The neighborhoods of Eunuchköy, Station and Hospital are the neighborhoods of the Albanian village. There are 500-600 production facilities in this region and tens of thousands of jobs are being created. However, although it has a very large population, a health clinic and health care are not provided in the region. The nearest hospital to the region is the Albanian village State Hospital 20km away. 1) Will you first make a study of whether a new health facility is urgently necessary for the centre of production and employment, Eunuchköy? 2) Are you going to work on making a new hospital in this area that is urgently needed? 3) Would you first consider the use of a military hospital that had previously served in the area, was still not used, and was empty? To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Yours truly. About 130,000 citizens live in Istanbul, Başakşehir, Doveltepe, Altınşehir and Şahintepe neighborhoods. Our neighborhoods are E-6 State Highway, and the nearest hospital is Basakşehir State Hospital, 20km away. In this area, Dovetepe is a neighborhood clinic in our neighborhood and is served every day by doctors on duty from Başakşehir State Hospital. However, there is not enough service available to the entire region. Are you going to work as an emergency centre to make the Pigeontepe Community Police Station more comprehensive and be sufficient for the people of the region? To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Recep Akdağ, the Minister of Health. Yours truly. About 130,000 citizens live in Istanbul, Başakşehir, Doveltepe, Altınşehir and Şahintepe neighborhoods. Our neighborhoods are E-6 State Highway, and the nearest hospital is Basakşehir State Hospital, 20km away. In this area, Dovetepe is a neighborhood clinic in our neighborhood and is served every day by doctors on duty from Başakşehir State Hospital. However, there is not enough service available to the entire region. Are you going to work as an emergency centre to make the Pigeontepe Community Police Station more comprehensive and be sufficient for the people of the region? Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0272	Dear President, honorable MPs, I salute you all. My dear President, do I have 35 minutes left? That's what it looks like from here.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0032par0274	Yes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0275	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0032par0276	If you finish earlier, our friends who had questions before might ask for an explanation, according to your answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0278	Of course, because the questions were too long, he actually took half the time to ask questions. I'll try to sum it up as best I can.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0032par0279	It's half time to ask questions and half time to answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0281	Yes, sir. In (6/4) I answer the question of Mr. Ensar Öğün. A question about Erzurum. In connection with the construction of ponds on Kurdu Creek in Erzurum Payleno district, Erzurum District Directorate of State Water Affairs has been given instructions for study. Also, for the purpose of protecting Kurdu Creek from excesses, 9,200,000 Turkish liras will be considered at the discovery-priced Erzurum Paylen Odükkapi and the Goldbasak villages Kurdu Tukkın Protection job, the investment programme and the Application Plan of 2012. (6/6) The question of Mr. Aslanoglu is related to Esenyurt State Hospital and some of the incidents here. No matter where the violence is, no matter who it's against, we never tolerate it. Dear lawmakers, in recent years, we have seen a growing sensitivity to violence in parallel with the rise of awareness in society, which is a good thing. In this regard, we also find increased sensitivity to violence in health care. We also believe that this will help reduce violence. As the Ministry, we never tolerate any kind of verbal or actual violence against the health staff, whose sole purpose is to relieve people's distress.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0034par0288	Including the violence on the council bench, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0289	The complete removal of violence from public life is an important goal. We also believe that we will get the most successful examples in the field of health because we also know that there is a sense of gratitude throughout society for our dedicated health workers who serve to provide health care for our citizens regardless of the concept of overtime. So we evaluated world examples of prevention and the work done in our country with a commission that we formed with NGOs. We're working not only at Esenyurt State Hospital for violence against health personnel, but at all of our hospitals, we're taking measures for acts of violence. On September 24, 2011, we organized the Zero Tolerans Symposium in İstanbul. In this symposium, we discussed problems and solution proposals in all dimensions. In order to raise awareness of our citizens, we have endeavored to increase the sensitivity of this issue by preparing posters of Zero Tolerances to Respect the Work, and by posting them in areas where our citizens have been heavily served, especially in our emergency services, clinics. We have no information that any physicians who serve at Esenyurt State Hospital have left because of their safety. As with any institution, there are reasons for leaving the hospital, such as resignation, temporary duty, or retirement. It's never been a matter of being insensitive to the matter, according to my ministry. We continue to take every precaution to avoid such events. We've prepared a protocol for the maintenance of patient and employee safety, and we've published it. In this regulation, we have established committees of security, especially in our hospitals' emergency services, 112 emergency health care providers, and all of our mouth, dental care centers. In what we call the White Code System, we developed an early warning system that allowed security guards to intervene in order to control physical violence against employees. In inspired by our employees' white scrubs, security forces intervene immediately when any physical violence occurs to our employee in this system with international applications. We started this practice in our major hospitals, and now we're spreading it to all of our hospitals. We've organized the symptoms of patient and employee safety. My ministry has taught our employees courses in performance and quality conventions, which are held every year in health, with the practice of patient and employee safety. Finally, valuable lawmakers, we signed a very important principle with our new health ministry decree issued in the Official Gazette, November 2, 2011. That's a first in public. From now on, our staff who are subjected to violence will be given legal support according to the Ministry in the procedures and cases carried out under criminal law due to crimes committed against health care personnel or because of these tasks. Our ministry's lawyers and lawyers will be directly involved. You know, normally, these crimes were crimes against the individual, which were based on the protection of one's own law. Now, we've made an arrangement at the Ministry of Health to provide legal services for our staff as the Ministry of Health. In (6/29) Mr. Ensar Öğün. Mr. Ensar has a question about Ardahan Province. The population of Ardahan Province is 105,454. As of December 1, 2011, 51 specialists are active, while we have 14 specialists at the Ministry of Health and Health in Ardahan in 2002. So we've increased our number of attendings to more than three times in Ardahan. According to the expert's population, the province of Ardahan is the 13th place in Turkey when the cities are ranked. The fact is that compared to OECD countries or Europe, our country has shown an inadequacy in terms of the number of doctors. So what we're doing right now is disseminating our present physicians in a way that can properly serve in all parts of the country in a balanced manner as much as we can. We believe that we have done so in Ardahan. In the question of Mr. Öğümün (6/39), there is a particular question about the seas and the pools. During the seawater swimming season, between May and October, we watch it every 15 days, microbiologically as the Ministry of Health, by our municipal administrations. These monitors are being carried out under the rules of Swimming Water Quality Rule. The results are being monitored by our Ministry as a central part of automation software. Inappropriate results are published on the websites of the health departments of the coastal provinces. In any instances of impropriety, we co-operate with the municipality or the relevant institutions and ban the use of swimming spaces. We also take sufficient lighting, cleaning, heating, heating, cleaning up swimming pool water once a year, taking precautions to ensure the presence of first aid against drownings, saving lives, and tracking them. The question of Mr. Hülya Güven (6/45) is asked about health services related to two districts of İzmir. Mr. President, valued MPs, according to TÜİK data in 2010, the population of our Beydağ district is 12,977. We provide health care in Beydağ district at the level of family medicine. He receives the county-owned treatment services from our 250-bed hospital in Paying County, which is a fortified district, 29km away from him. From now on, he will receive his services from this hospital. Again, according to the 2010 TÜİK data, a state hospital capable of 61 beds serves in Bayındır district, where the population is 41,000. In this hospital, we have 16 specialists, along with seven practitioners, two dentists, one pharmacist and 50 other medical staff. This hospital offers imaging services such as MRI, CT, ultrasound, bone danceometer, mammography, which have been failing even in our hospitals in our major cities before us. These services are provided today at the Public Hospital. There are 112 stations in both counties. In emergency situations, 112 emergency health care stations in Bayındır and Beydağ districts serve our citizens 24 hours a day. All villages are given ambulance service. And I must also say, valuable lawmakers, before our power of the EC, there was no ambulance service for villages in Turkey, no ambulance service for any village. Today we provide ambulance services to all our villages via land and air throughout Turkey.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0035par0304	It used to be, Minister, it used to be.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0305	The furthest village can be reached in 15 or 30 minutes by road ambulance. The ambulance, located in Izmir Province, is also reached by helicopter to the remotest villages of these districts. As a matter of fact, in 2011, 28 emergency cases were transferred from Bayındır district and 6 emergency cases from Beydağ district.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0036par0306	Are there doctors in the ambulances, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0307	Honorable MPs (6/47), Mr. Hülya Güven asks a question about Karaburun district again. The population of Karaburun is 8,689. As our congressman said, summer populations are increasing in Karaburun and other counties. It's about the growing population in the summer, and we're providing expert medical assistance to our district, as well as to our other counties. Two days, family physicians are assigned here as two days a week. There are still 3 family physicians and 2 emergency health stations in our district and 24 hours of uninterrupted service. We're planning a county state hospital where all services will be served together, both in the first place and in the first place, along with oral dental care. In addition, our citizens who are already in bed are served in their homes as a part of home care services. Precious MPs receive health care at the home of nearly 100,000 citizens in Turkey. And that's another innovation that we've started in our time of power. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Reshad Haklat has asked a question in 2010-2011 about the number of C-sections throughout Turkey and the numbers in Tokat. From the very beginning, Mr. Right is a valued congressman who's been following this very closely. And I want to thank him for sharing our sensitivity in this matter. Yes, the issue of the C-section in Turkey is an important matter. C-sections have increased all over the world over the past 30 years, and Turkey has increased. In 2009, we started a special program to ensure that the C-sections were done in accordance with the medical needs. In this program, we're cooperating with professional troops. Programs conducted on this side from 2008 began to kick in. Let me put it this way, especially with the first C-sections, the primary C-section rates, because it's very difficult to reduce these C-section rates, as our former C-section citizens, our brothers, often show the need for C-section in their next birth. So what are the first C-section rates, or C-section ratios in the first pregnancy? In 2009, Turkey had a 27 per cent C-section rate in the first pregnancy. This has fallen to 25 percent in 2010 and to 24 per cent in 2011. In connection with the state of slap, our esteemed congressman asked. It's better in the town of slaps. We started working with 30 percent in 2009, and in 2010 it fell to 25 percent in 2010 and 23 percent in 2011. We'll all continue this effort together, dear lawmakers. Really, we know that unnecessary cesareans hurt both mothers and babies. I call upon our fellow physicians and our citizens to question the C-section of the C-section. So for cosmetic reasons -- if I have surgery with the Caesarian, my body won't break down. C-sections are extremely wrong. We know, of course, that both mother's health and mother's physical appearance are of great benefit to both the baby and the baby's. C-section is an operation that must be applied only when needed. So we're going to continue our schedule on this. Mr. Reshad is asking a question about dental dental care in the province of Tokat in the main question of Right (6/59). Our mouth and dental center is currently operating in the province of Tokat. Congressmans, we've also developed a significant amount of oral and dental health care in each of our provinces, thank God, as AK PARTI authorities, with the Change in Health Programme in our time. And we've developed it very seriously in the province of Tokat. We have 69 dentists in our slap county today. 35 of them serve at the Slap Mouth and Dental Health Center. We've put this center in our investment program to be converted into a five-bedroom mouth and dental care hospital with 50 units. We'll start this job in 2012, hopefully. There is a question about the Internet connection of Mr. Ali Sarıbaş (6/208). Dear MPs, the question of our Congressman, Mr. Sarıbaş is very important. We know that Internet dependency is a term that defines the use of the Internet out of control and harmful. However, I would also like to say that there is a subject still being discussed in the medical world. In recent years, there have been reports of cases and publications that have reached the level of addiction that could be mentioned by increasing use of the Internet. Studies also point to another psychiatric disorder in about half of Internet addicts, 50 percent of them. That's what they're doing in our country. In particular, it has been shown in our country, where there are psychiatric disorders in the youth group, as well as in our country, where it is prone to addiction in the family. One of the most important studies on this subject is the Family and Social Policy Ministry's study of Internet Use and Family Services conducted by the Department of Family and Social Services. There are many studies done by our psychiatrists in Turkey. Our physicians share their clinical experience with the use of the Internet at the level of disease. But as with other types of addiction, we also know that there's no complete diagnostic and evaluation of the frame. Therefore, our doctors in Turkey are careful to draw the boundaries of normal and disease - level internet use, and they are also concerned about the subject of disease level use. Given all this information, we've been carefully monitoring the complaints of families, and we've been recording research in the scientific world. In this direction, we launched a pilot study at Copperville Mental Health Education and Research Hospital. We'll be able to better determine what we're going to do across the country by considering the results of the policy services launched to implement cognitive behavioral treatment for Internet addiction in 2012. In 2012, we also planned to take new steps with a joint study group with scientists. Mr. Scholar Light has a question about the contributions taken from our patients. However, Mr. Light asked the questions by considering them to be paid for. I must point out that no one in our public hospitals in Turkey is paid for a medical examination.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0037par0320	A contribution, a contribution!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0321	In private hospitals, if there's an agreement with insurance, social security, there's still no medical fees.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0038par0322	What do they get at the pharmacy, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0323	Isn't that the medical bill, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0324	So, it's true, the contributions are being taken. I will clearly set the statement in the form of the contribution, and then I will have informed you how long it is now. Family medicine examinations do not receive a turnout. The second step is a five-dollar contribution to public service servers, hospitals, and health services. Education research hospitals and universities also receive a 5 lira contribution in examinations, but private health care servers receive a $12 contribution.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0326	What if it's prescribed?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0327	If a prescription is written, it is added to three liras each.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0328	What if there's a second examination in ten days?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0329	The second examination is not available in ten days because it is the examination that takes place within ten days, and this examination must not be billed for social security.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0330	If he goes to another doctor, Mr. Secretary, what does he pay?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0331	There's a fundamental purpose to bringing in participation, lawmakers.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0332	You're getting a lot of contributions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0333	In our time, our citizen has survived the ordeal of the practice. Now, I'm sure these questions were asked in full good faith, but we must not ignore the fact that, dear lawmakers: Before the Change in Health Programme, before the AK PARTI powers, we were all sentenced to clinics. We were like this when we were workers, we were like this when we were officers, we were like this when we were retired. If you had a patient somewhere, if you had an important disease, you had to go to a practice, 100 lira, 150 lira, 200 lira, 500 lira, 500 lira, 500 lira in the form of a knife money that a citizen named for surgeries. Thank God our citizens in Turkey have survived this ordeal.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0335	The government's getting the money for the knife today! The government gets that money.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0336	Why the contribution, why the $5, why the 12 lira?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0337	Isn't that $5, $8 worth of knife money, Mr. Secretary? What's that got to do with it? It's money, isn't it?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0339	Dear MPs, our number of physicians in Turkey is inadequate, so we must direct our citizens to receive services from family physicians for their ills that are of no importance. See, valuable lawmakers, for simpler diseases, when our citizens go to hospitals, the deadlines for our citizens with severe illness are running low. For him, these contributions are very well-intentioned figures and are intended to encourage our citizens to adopt the digitized delivery system. Dear MPs, everyone knows that if you are sick today in Turkey, even if you are a shepherd living in a village, a helicopter ambulance will come to you and take you to a center. If you go to a private hospital to receive emergency health care in Turkey today, no one will be able to collect money from you.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0342	Come on, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0343	Dear lawmakers, as the Ministry of Health, we have sentenced private hospitals who receive money from emergency patients, patients who require intensive care to ten days without taking patients to many private hospitals in 2011. Look, it's a private hospital, but we've got laws about it, regulations about it, our Prime Minister's generalization, so we've never left our citizen on the crushing terms of the market like we did in the past, and we won't leave after that.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0344	What are your contributions, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0345	So the contribution is...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0040par0346	Mr. Horseman, please listen, please...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0347	Sir, but let him say the right things, Mr. Secretary, he's not telling the truth.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0033par0348	...this contribution from the state...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0040par0349	He's answering questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0350	He's not telling the truth, sir.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0040par0351	Of course you will.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0352	...as compared to the past.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0039par0353	He's not right. Let's hear it. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0040par0354	Please...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0355	So, why are turnouts being collected from pharmacies? Dear lawmakers, let's not think of pharmacies as places that only give drugs to citizens, or even -- I'm telling you -- with a false assessment, like places that sell drugs, and pharmacies are places where people are given health care. So, as you already know, in pharmacies, if there's no report, there's 10% for pensioners, 20% for employees. Other contributions around here are being paid, piling up in our hospitals, preventing unnecessary queues in our hospitals. We've discussed this with our fellow pharmacists, the pharmacists, there have been some objections from time to time, but in the end, everyone has accepted that it's a service to the citizen. Thus, our practices will continue after this. The original number is 6/237...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0042par0358	What about the unpaid drugs? Prescription, non-payment medication.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0359	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I speak from this bench now, we do not hear the speech of a member of parliament who constantly intervenes in the conversation, but our citizens are being served. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] See, the rate of satisfaction of health care for our citizens in Turkey in 2003 is 39.5 percent of those who say, "I am pleased." The proportion of those who say, in 2010, is 73%. For this we thank God; this is a success of the Republic of Turkey, and we are all proud of it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The question of Mr. Halaman, whose original number is (6/237), refers to the number of doctors at Kozan State Hospital, the number of inadequacies. I've told you before, the number of physicians growing up in our country is yet to meet our expectations. For years, there was resistance from medical organizations, universities, to increasing the number of physicians. Unfortunately, the higher education board, which was the task of increasing the number, was not able to do what needed to be done in this regard. The situation has changed since 2008, dear MPs. As the Ministry of Health, our continued demands as government have also been correctly perceived by the NGO, and quotas have been increased in medical schools. The number of quotas in the 5,000s is now close to 9,000. This should exceed 10,000, but you can appreciate it takes six to seven years for a physician to grow. It takes 11 to 12 years to raise an attending. So we have a vision of 2023. In 2023, we want 200,000 physicians in our country, and in this way, our citizens get better service, and our physicians get rid of a heavy workload, but I can make it very clear...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0043par0364	That's what imported physicians do, Mr. Secretary, don't worry!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0365	Ladies and gentlemen, for nine years, I've been talking about these issues from this bench, and it's in the National Assembly of Turkey. From our opposition parties, from valuable members of the Nationalist Movement Party, from the beloved members of the Republican People's Party, we are leaving here, how does an academic Minister of Health want to increase the number of doctors in Turkey? Because that's what they've convinced all of us because we know today that the number of doctors in Turkey needs to increase, and that's what we're all trying to do.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0043par0366	We need infrastructure first.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0367	The population of our Kozan district is about 127. We have 39 specialists at Kozan State Hospital. As of today, there are 3,200 physicians in our province of Kozan. Before the Change in Health Programme, in 2002, there was one specialist for 6,500 people. I mean, the number of specialists has doubled in Kozan, but our congressman is right, whoever is on this valued committee needs a doctor in my town, in my district. If he says so, he's right. What we can do is send our current doctors in Turkey to serve as fairly and fairly as possible all over the country.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0043par0368	You can solve it with imported physicians!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0369	The main questions of Mr. Aslanoglu and Çelebi (6/262, 266, 302, 374, 292, 294 and 399) point to a very important issue. These are questions about the districts of Çakca, Silivri, Büçükçekmecü, Esenyurt, Hunters, Küçükçekmece and Başakşehir, as we call them in Istanbul. In this region of Istanbul, we face a minimum number of beds in Istanbul. Thus, the Ministry has made a serious effort to increase the number of beds in this region. Especially in Hunters, we had a lot of trouble finding land in Esenyurt, because it was a lot of fast urbanization and land that was used, but as a result of long efforts, we also provided valuable deputies, land. Let me put it this way: 100 in Basakhir, 175 in Esenyurt, 50 in the capital, our hospitals are now serving, but we know that they are inadequate. Thus, we have planned to build 200 to the Great Drawer, 300 to the Esenyurt, 100 to the Forkca, 300 to the Beylikdüzü, 300 to the Hunters, and 300 new hospitals to the Hunters. We believe that we can start all of this in 2012, that's how we've developed our preparations, but we haven't yet been able to provide land for the 300-bed hospital in Hunters, we have trouble there, we've dealt with land issues in other areas, we're doing projects, and we're going to be doing contracts soon. In addition, we have planned a major health centre for this area, which consists of 2.682 beds. In this region of Istanbul, we have launched a tender for a large health city, which we can call a bilateral health centre, or a city of health, or a city of great health. I hope in six months we'll be able to build this great facility -- again, this magnificent facility with 2.682 beds. In Fatih district, we have planned two hospitals with 550 beds to Gaziosmanpaşa, and a new hospital with 600 beds to Sultangazi. In Eunuchköy, we built a 211-bed hospital in the Albanian village, which will continue to receive services from this hospital. Mr. Aslanoglu's question (6/277) is that there is a statement regarding doctors who have left the public. Dear MPs, from 30/6/2011 to 30/2011 -- the last day of November -- between 30/11/11/2011, the clinic chief, clinical chief assistant, specialist medical examiner, medical examiner, prime minister, and assistant -- 407 have retired, 1.859 Now, this is a very natural job.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0044par0374	Including colleges?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0375	In a little while, I'll have another comparison with another question. Dear lawmakers, due to this Full-Day Law, there are no significant public departures, services are under way. I expect our opposition to support us, the AK PARTY, on the full day, because it is a law for the benefit of the people.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0044par0377	Are the universities included, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0378	The full day is the end of a corrupt system that leads our citizens to clinics, whether in university hospitals or other public hospitals. I'm also looking for support from our worthy opposition in this matter because it means that on the full day...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0045par0379	Propose the law, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0380	When I go to the state hospital as a citizen, I'm not going to be referred to an office where I have to pay for it, and I'm not going to suffer for it. Dear lawmakers, our following citizens, our citizens watching the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are well aware of the meaning of this conversation.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0046par0382	What about the doctor's salary, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0383	We've suffered for years, we've suffered for years, this ordeal is over. Today, at the Ministry of Health, it serves our citizens in hospitals of nearly 31,000 physicians. Yes, you're right, in exchange for this service, we get a $5 contribution from our citizens, but we don't charge $5,000 for surgery, we don't charge 500 lira for examination. That's the difference between the AK PARTY and the precious MPs.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0047par0385	Please don't take that with you!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0048par0386	Mr. Secretary, you're running out of time, please...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0041par0387	I answer the question of Mr. Süleyman Çelebi. Dear MPs, in March 2011, April, May, June, four months, the number of experts who left the Ministry of Health for various reasons is 1,476, and the rate of change is 4.7%. You know we've made a decision on the full-time law. The number of specialists who left after this decision was 1,424, and the rate of change is 4.6 percent. So as you can see, the full number of days has not made any difference as far as the number of physicians who have left the public. The total number of students still in our country, the number of medical faculty professors at universities was 12,993, with the numbers reported to us -- 630 people in medical schools have a practice. I'm pointing out that the noise that's going around is actually a futile noise. We must never turn our citizen back to a system that will suffer this ordeal again -- I just told you -- to never return it. We also did this: If there is a problem in this transformation process, we have opened our lines to our citizens -- the lines he can apply for -- to our universities, to the SEC. Therefore, we have not victimized our citizen, nor will we ever again victimize him. It's his choice if a faculty member from medical schools thinks it's better for him to leave and make money on the market. The question is, what are your academic studies? That precious medical school member has made his choice in this matter, and he is free to make his choice. Yes, part of my questions probably won't reach, my dear President. If you'll excuse me, I'll finish here, and we'll try to end the rest of the questions at the next time. I salute our esteemed delegation and our esteemed President.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0049par0394	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Your Honor, Mr. Çelebi and Mr. Sarıbaş have requests to explain their questions. Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0050par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I would like to ask the minister if you should change your policies that lead to violence rather than legal support for a violent physician. In addition, violence continued to increase after the Health Transformation Program was implemented. Can the Minister give us an enlightening account of the reasons for this? You've increased the infrastructure of medical schools without increasing the number of faculty students. Do you think the trained physicians are equipped? I'd like to ask you this, Mr. Secretary, and the last time they're telling us that people are frozen especially because of the cold, and that there are problems with serious deadly causes. Do you intend to take precautions on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0051par0402	Thank you. Your Honor...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0052par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. What I want to ask the Minister is that 23 people in bed in Karaburun district are being served at home. Do family physicians provide this service, or are they given it by a separate group? How does it grow if the family physicians give it to him? And I want to know if the total number of patients that are dependent on the bed there is 23 people that require home care or part of it. In addition, there was a slogan that was said before this chain of transport began. It was called the freedom of choice of physicians. When the chain of transport arrives, isn't the freedom of choice of physicians over? Then what are we talking about, the freedom to choose a physician? And the family physicians, you know, they work with the only physician and usually the only paramedic. In all these conditions, a family physician can serve 3,000 people, even 4,000 people, where it is not enough. If you include the villages, you can have 10km, 20km. How does a family doctor grow up...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0053par0409	Thank you. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0054par0411	Mr. Secretary, first of all, in my response to my questions about our online health ministry, we have found that even though the world has advanced in this regard, we are further behind in Turkey, still in study and science has not made it very clear. I've just tried to find out that in your responses, there is no special unit in the Ministry of Health, no contact with universities, and in this question, the disease of our age and the addiction of our young people, especially to the Internet, while the world has taken it into a very serious position, I find that our ministry is not in serious research and serious measures. I want to warn future generations -- Turkey is a young population -- in this sense -- that our future young people are dangerous. A second personal question: Will Çanakkale be moved especially by the removal of the Çanakkale State Hospital? In other words, will Çanakkale State Hospital be privatized if the pilot has been selected and selected within nine counties?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0053par0414	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0055par0416	Mr. President, thank you. I also want to thank the Minister for his answers. He stated that the contribution taken from private hospitals at public hospitals and university hospitals was placed to promote the digitized delivery system. He also stated that our pharmacies are also collecting the 3 TL prescription share as part of a training service, but pharmacies and patients are really uncomfortable with this practice. So I'm saying that the amount of payment collected in pharmacies is not very satisfying because of a reason that would cause a three-dollar pile-up in hospitals. I also think it would be more beneficial for our nation to have its firm attitude reconsidered. Mr. Minister, of course, you couldn't explain it because you didn't have enough time, but the Kütahya...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0056par0420	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Akar, Mr. Millendereli, Mr. Baluken and Mr. Demir, you have entered the system, but we promise which of our members of parliament...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0057par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0056par0423	One moment, Mr. Akar. Our lawmakers may request a statement again regarding the questions that Mr. Minister has already written down. That's what the Civil Code wants. Mr. Secretary, please respond to further requests from your position.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0426	Thank you, my dear President. Now, I'd like to say to Mr. Çelebi, that it's true to stand up to violence, to try to prevent violence in some way. I completely agree with you on this. However, the idea that violence has increased due to new policies imposed by the Ministry of Health or the Change in Health Programme is a false thought, a thought without any scientific basis.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0059par0428	Yes, but, Mr. Secretary, it's condensed.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0429	In this particular case, some organizations are constantly pumping it. I'm a scientist who's studied the method for years. So we have no evidence of increased violence.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0060par0430	We'll give it to him, Mr. Secretary, we have it.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0431	But I say this: Whether it goes up or down, Mr. Çelebi, or Turkey, once a year, it's very important to us.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0432	That's what we want to say.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0433	Now, let me tell you, when a valuable health worker is attacked by a self-righteous, presumptuous person, when he's engaged in a verbal, actual intervention, it's really unfair to connect it to health policies. He doesn't have any evidence. It's thought to say that the mud horse stays somewhere. What health policy are you going to attach it to? You've been a union man for many years.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0434	Yeah.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0435	So you don't see the difference between suffering at old SEC hospitals and now serving in those hospitals? You're all seeing this.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0436	Mr. Secretary, I'm talking about violence.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0437	So shouldn't you change your policies that cause violence? The question is futile. All the policies of the Ministry of Health are to serve our citizens, to comfort health workers, to try to prevent violence, as you have ordered.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0438	That's what we want.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0439	About the number of students, especially in our major universities, there's an area that can actually serve a lot more students, Mr. Çelebi. I am correct in your statement that there may be a shortage of faculty at newly established medical schools. You know, the RDC wanted to start a rotation to deal with this, and unfortunately, this came back from administrative law. Let's join forces. Like our dear university teachers in the past -- this is how we grew up -- let's support the YOK to serve in our newly established universities in the country. We have to give this support, but I have to say that if we consider the issue in terms of one student per professor in Turkey, for example in Germany, 22 students fell to one medical faculty professor, and in Turkey, about eight years ago, that number was 4. There are enough professors for him in Turkey, and I think we should make good distribution of them. You've had the expression that people freeze for health reasons in Van.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0441	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0442	Thank God we haven't had a citizen who's frozen in Van. Hopefully not after this, under earthquake conditions.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0443	I'll go back tomorrow. Some of them are burned to death.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0444	Let me put it this way, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0445	Why does he burn to death? Because of the cold, because of the ice.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0446	You talked, so if you'll excuse me, I'll answer. May I answer you, sir?
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0061par0447	Of course, sir. We'll go again tomorrow. We're going to reflect our observation here.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0449	In terms of health care, the services provided by our Van brothers have been greatly appreciated both by Turkey and by organisations around the world. It's really hard in the earthquake conditions, everyone's work is very difficult. May God make it easy for all our dear brothers and sisters who work there, along with our brothers and sisters from Van. But let me put it this way: health workers are an excellent organization. After the initial rescue, hospital studies, Sanitations, environmental health, basic health studies, public health studies, immunizations have been a great success. I kiss their foreheads, and I thank those health workers in the presence of the High Council. Your Honor, these 23 dear brothers in Karaburun are given home health care by family physicians and public health. This service is given to every citizen who calls our number 444 38 33. Our goal here is to give whoever needs it. If this town is incomplete, please help us, and we'll give care to our brothers and citizens at home. We're not talking about a chain of transport right now, an active chain of transport. We're only taking contributions to encourage a step-up application. This is a model applied in Sweden and similar countries. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just give me one more minute.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0062par0454	Here you go.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0058par0455	Thank you. We know it's difficult for family physicians to reach 3,000 populations, and so does the other staff, but we have to make such a distribution as the number of medical staff and the number of family physicians in Turkey. However, we are now planning a new plan, especially when we distribute to the countryside, to serve 2,000 people or 1,500 people. We've changed our policy on this. I thank Mr. Sarıbaş for his sensitivity to the Internet. And I can tell you that our sensitivity in this matter will continue and will increase. Çanakkale Hospital, yes, we'll build a new hospital. Of course, when we build a new hospital, we will move the old hospital there, but at Çanakkale, where our old hospital is, we will continue to offer a health care service to our citizens. Mr. Light said it was the delivery system and, by the way, the pharmacies were uncomfortable with practice. I repeat: yes, there may have been pharmacies that were uncomfortable with this, but we've actually experienced it, and at first we've seen that these contributions from citizens in SEC hospitals or other hospitals have caused a very serious loss. It seems more practical that this matter be dealt with in the course of medication, despite some of its concerns. Thank you very much, my dear President.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0063par0461	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question motion has been answered.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0064par0463	Mr. Secretary, I just got another call from Van.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit02spe0063par0464	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and with the New Zealand Government, where we left off with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, where the Agreement was appropriate. The commission and the government are in place. Interviews on Article 1 of the 20th article of November 17, 2011 were completed. Now, I submit the 1st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On the 2nd article, the Republican People's Party Group, Candan Asüçer, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, Mr. Supreme.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0065par0016	Mr. President, I have made a pledge between the Government of the Republic of Turkey 21 and the Government of New Zealand that the Agreement for Air Services is in order to be ratified, on Article 3 of the Dair Legislature and Foreign Affairs Commission Report. I salute your high council. The bill we're negotiating shows that our relations with the New Zealand government will be further integrated, that this bill will have a positive impact on both countries' political, commercial and cultural relations. New Zealand and Turkey have a friendship from history. The history of relations between Turkey and New Zealand is based on the battle of Çanakkale, which has brought Turkish-Anzak armies against them. The mutual good feelings between the two countries flourished and flourished in that great conflict environment. This friendship, which began with a great war in history, is remembered every year by the events of the people of both countries in memory of those days. (x) 21 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 20th Consolidation Charter, dated 17/11/2011. Dear lawmakers, we haven't been able to do what foreign people have done this year by organizing events. As it is known, this year, because of our martyrs and the Van earthquake, the celebration of Republic Day has been cancelled throughout the dorm. I pray first to our martyrs and to our citizens, who died in the earthquake and almost every day in the tents, that God have mercy on them, and for our people, and for our people, and for the wounded, and for the health of our nation. As in the entire yurt, the days of the liberation of many districts of Tekirdağ have been cancelled. The AKP government sought to do something by taking refuge behind the martyrs and the earthquake. If you remember, Mr. Secretary didn't cancel his son's wedding while the ceremonies were being cancelled all over the dorm, and the state official didn't fail to attend this wedding. Those who were able to have weddings during the days of these great sufferings failed to celebrate Republic Day. Dear friends, I think when there's another intention, the mind makes excuses, the tongue makes lies. On 13 November 1922, the Tekirdağs will claim this land from today to tomorrow, as they have claimed Tekirdağ and the republic for eighty-nine years since the day of the invasion of the enemy. For Tekirdağ, and Tekirdağ, shall never fail, neither shall they fail in this light way. Together with our Tekirdağ, we know that victory is not easy to achieve in our entire country, and that the republic is not easy to build. For this reason, our republic, every inch of our country, our unity and unity, built with the blood of fallen martyrs, is more important to us than anything else. Everyone should know that our republic will last forever, that our commitment to the Ataturk principles and revolutions will continue with determination. (HPP) This nation will have its independence, its independence, its republic, at all times, with its blood. Despite the government's best efforts, our people have shown us how to take care of history and its republic. Having such ancestors, such a date, is a cause of hope and struggle for us, even in the darkest of days. I want to remember our ancestors with gratitude and gratitude, who left us this beautiful land and our beautiful knowledge in a great struggle. Dear lawmakers, in this land, in our beautiful Thrace, the environment has been threatening human health for the past ten years. While the Ergene River is drinkable at its birthplace, the contamination causes it to emit poison. Cancer cases have increased in our region, the underground water is not used for contamination, it's turned into a teenage industrial sewer. The Ergene River can't be watered down. The efficiency of Thracian lands has fallen. The existence of heavy metals in products was published in scientific studies. In recent research, the report prepared by the Faculty of Public Health at Thracian University of Medicine to determine the damage done by Ergene (Ergene)'s water and soil pollution is very striking, with cancer cases increasing in the region and the establishment of a cancer record and research centre as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, cancer in our region is a disaster like an earthquake, like a tsunami, which has now reached those dimensions, and not once, it's a disaster that increases its intensity and regional width. Almost every day, every 4-5 houses have a cancer patient. Our people in the region are in great pain. Since sunflowers, rice, most of the wheat production of our country grow in our region, it is clear that this problem is no longer a regional problem. The basis of this fact is not the Republican People's Party municipalities, but the direct or indirect discharge of industrial, domestic, agricultural-rooted wastewaters to Ergene, as the Minister stated. The lack of planning has led to the aimless use of the fertile territory of our region. Dear MPs, nature is the common heritage of all mankind. It is our duty to pass this trust on to our descendants, our children, as we have received it from our ancestors, without polluting it. Sadly, for years in our Thrace, the steps to the solution have been inadequate, often for show. I sincerely wish that the Minister's final statements regarding the cleansing of Ergene would be no longer a promise. There's no opposition to that, and we all have Teene. Let's solve this problem together, because this problem is what we all owe. Dear lawmakers, in addition to this agreement, the friendship groups established in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with New Zealand have been a positive influence on our relations with this country. This bill, which passes through the commission to the General Assembly, shows that more positive steps will be taken. Of course, our hope is to take positive steps with all countries in foreign policy. It is clear that this is not the case, even though our foreign policies were tried to be positive during the AKP administration. Because of the policies followed by the government, many countries are on the brink of war. By saying zero problems, we have zero friends. In our history of the 80-year-old republic, how can we, as a country that has been suffering all the suffering of terror for 30 years, support those who try to overthrow Syrian rule with armed force, no matter what the reason, in Syria, until yesterday? There is a democracy in Egypt, Libya, Tunisia. Under the name of democracy, the lives of our brothers and sisters are being turned upside down by the policy of blood, envy, division, division, dissolution, governance as they please. Or are we trying to get a good hand through the blood and tears of our neighbors these days? We don't want any foreign policy or interest coming to us through the blood and tears of our neighbors. And it should not be forgotten that what is meant to be done to them today may be meant to be done to us tomorrow. Dear lawmakers, it's because a society knows its history correctly, learns it correctly, knows what's right and what's wrong. Because he needs to work this way by taking advantage of the right, by walking away from the wrong, and by trying to make sure that no more wrongs are done. Dear lawmakers, let's be sincere no matter what we are. On the one hand, you're going to make a race-based distinction based on faith. I've been condemned by members of a sect, you'll say. You will not bring the defendants of the massacre before the trial, and then we will apologize if they have to go back and apologize. What you do with your words must be convincing. It's one thing to talk about history, to learn it right, to know it's another thing to use it as a historical political material. Look, we've had an example of this recently. On July 2, 1993, a fugitive accused of killing 35 people including two children, many of our citizens, was arrested in Poland on September 26, 1993, in Poland, where 15,000 people attended police records -- the murder of two children, many of them young and many of our citizens. Case attorneys Ankara 11. He petitioned the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice, demanding that the extradition proceedings be carried out quickly, noting that the European Convention on Restitution is 40 days according to Article 16 of the European Convention. However, the documents required for the extradition of the defendant arrived late to the Polish authorities, and on November 4th, the escaped defendant Vahit Kaynar...
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0066par0034	Thank you, Your Highness.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0065par0035	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0066par0037	Ali Longırmak who wants to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0067par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Government of the Republic of Turkey and to the Air Service of New Zealand to ratify the Agreement. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to make a foreign policy assessment on the basis of this agreement. As we all know, foreign policy is a vision, a mission, and a concept of strategy, tactics and methods based on it. If your strategies and tactics don't match your vision, then when you lose your level of credibility, which is the most important element of foreign policy, this is very difficult to build, especially for a country, when you've narrowed it down so hard in the international arena, you've done the most evil to future generations and your country, and it has to be known that the elements such as foreign policy strategy, strategy, vision, mission, cannot be obtained from historical events and good intentions. If it doesn't take its origin from historical events and the future, science, if it doesn't take its origin from its reality, it'll remain and it won't be implemented; the same day will become what Turkey came to in foreign policy, and then foreign policy will be used as a major factor in internal policy design if friendship or hostility between countries starts to design your interests. Dear lawmakers, the AKP is going to be very dangerous in this regard. Because as the last days of the Ottomans' desperate policies, the day-to-day foreign policies, without historical reality, were tried to be instilled as a source of hope, and the end of the day-to-day friendships, so-called misogynistics, or misogynys, or showless friendships have led countries to disasters. I'd like to share with you one thing in terms of the understanding of Ottoman rule in recent times: Sultan Abdulhamid has been deposed from the throne and is welcome in Thessaloniki. Fethi Okyar Bey is an order officer, and when he has the opportunity, he and Sultan Abdulhamid have the opportunity to discuss the country's policies. At that time, Ithiat and Terakki eliminated, agreed, and allegedly began friendship with the so-called Bulgarian church and the Greek church regarding some developments in the Balkans. Fethi Okyar Bey boasts of this and says to Sultan Abdulhamid, "Sultan, there is peace coming to the Balkans now." But here's the experienced Sultan, the Balkans are in danger. Because I founded all Ottoman politics on the inability of Greek and Bulgarian churches in the Balkans. If these two churches agree, if these two churches become friends, then... Mr. Secretary, maybe it's not your field of duty, but maybe there's something in the government if you listen. Mr. Volcano, I'm listening to the speeches of some of our friends from the AKP. Recently, in a talk on foreign policy, a member of parliament from abroad tells us that the AKP government has revealed very large visions, missions, services in foreign affairs, and talks about these things with huge contradictions. Just a moment ago, a friend of ours is critical of past governments, critical of past policies, but I want to tell you that when you look at the résumé of Volcano Bey, in the years when our friend criticised Mr. Volcano Bey, the Secretary General of the Presidency, the Ambassador of Volcano Bey Foreign Affairs, the ambassador of Volcano Bey, the ambassador of one place, the consul, the consul. Dear friends, your friends. When you look at these desks, our friends, who are both senior bureaucrats and ministers, who are in the past governments between you, are far above opposition. So, if you want to paint political reality in this country with such fierce contradictions, this picture is wrong, dear friends, you're criticizing yourself. So I'd like to come back to this point: Mr. Prime Minister, or our fellow ministers, our fellow lawmakers, are saying that we are on the side of the public in a number of events that are developing in our nearby geography. Dear MPs, if you're reading the papers and following a bit of the agenda... this newspaper, more recently, on 21 November 2011... is being cut off from Turkish pilgrims in Syria. Turkish pilgrims are trying to be killed in Syria. Well... [[From the AK PARTY rows, the voice of whose side]] By whom? You will identify him, the government will identify him. Why did we get like this, how did we end up like this? You have to ask that question first. Until today, the pilgrims from that holy land, who came for the mission, were not attacked, not attacked. If you're with the public, which people are you with? In Syria, the consulates are printed, the embassies are raided, and it's likely that aliens don't come and print it, but some of the people of that country do. Hence, you must give up these false statements. Foreign policy between countries comes from the state to the state. To the people within one another, perhaps inter-national friendships, but when the state of one country begins to make friends with the governments of that country within another country, the government, the government, the regime of his country, the people of his country, other people will stand before the people who stand by that power. In the same day, some Libyans are treated in Turkish hospitals and sentenced to death is not appropriate for Turkey's vision. Dear lawmakers, it has been said to be a lunatic in front of the Topkapı Palace, but I want to warn the government. Why Topkapi Palace? Why a Libyan citizen and Syrian plates? Because this government has a so-called claim. What is it? As a result of some of the practices of some of the new historical policies of the Republic of Turkey, which we can call the national line, the Ottoman Empire, which does not comply with the so-called Ottoman vision, has revealed a number of foreign policy appeals, and this citizen has drawn a gun in front of the Topkapi Palace, led by your Ottoman sultans. This is an action to be considered and it is a course of action that should be considered in terms of Turkey's foreign policy. Dear friends, the Prime Minister has gone to Egypt. What did the Prime Minister receive in Egypt? He was welcomed as the savior of Islam. And what would I like to receive as a citizen and MP of the Republic of Turkey? In Syria, in Egypt, thanks to Obama, in Libya, what was NATO doing in Libya yesterday? When Mr. Prime Minister said, "What is NATO doing in Libya?" Instead of being thanked by Obama today by Obama with NATO, it is not mentioned today that Obama is a vision and the construction of the rule of law, Turkey has not been exposed to it, rather than to the liberation of Islam in the Islamic world, but has been welcomed as a Turkish Prime Minister of democracy, human rights, and the establishment of the rule of law. Dear lawmakers, if the United States could give the welfare of its people within its borders to the people outside its borders, it would not seem so antipathic if his image were there. If yesterday the Soviet Union had lived up to the prosperity, freedom and democracy that it had promised to the people outside its borders, today the Soviet Union would not be disbanded. If the Republic of Turkey could live off its so-called missions, its promises abroad, its own advanced democracy, believe me, the Turkish nation would be happier. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Prime Minister lacks the ability and the ability to do these things. I thank you all very much, and wish you the best of the covenant.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0068par0058	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. The Spirit Mindful, Aksaray MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0069par0062	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge between the government of the Republic of Turkey, whose number is 21 and the Government of New Zealand, that the Agreement of Air Services is eligible for ratification, on Article 2 of the Dair Legislature. I salute you all. Of course, the friends who come to the stand, when they have more opportunity than the content of the law, they enter what they themselves find appropriate. But the bill we're discussing is about aviation. I think the opposition parties are getting into things that they feel are missing because they can't find a way to criticize our success in aviation. Turkey has made significant breakthroughs in aviation in recent years. In the last decade, we have made our Turkish Airlines, our national airlines, a brand. With the international agreement we're meeting here today, Turkey will now be able to fly to New Zealand. With the support of our government's aviation in recent years, our aircraft has tripled. There are three times as many passengers as there are. These do not reflect Turkey's capacity. We can do better than that. I think we can achieve higher numbers both economically and as a population. Anyway, these deals are deals to open up these roads. I wish that this agreement would bring blessings to both New Zealand and our country, Turkey. I hereby salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0070par0068	Ekrem Çelebi, Ağrı MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0071par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge to the State of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Turkey 21th and the Government of New Zealand that the Agreement for Air Services is appropriate. I salute your high council. First of all, I would like to say that I find this agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the New Zealand government positive for the development and further development of civilian aviation relations. In parallel with recent developments in the Turkish civilian aviation sector and the growth of the aircraft fleet, Turkey's flight network is also rapidly developing. With the release of Turkish civil aviation under our Prime Minister's instructions, Turkish civilian aviation has entered a major breakthrough and has begun to grow at a rate of envy in the world. I'd like to bring to your attention the growth of civilian aviation since 2002. In short, the number of flights that were 110 passengers in 2002 has reached 350 (50.5 million passengers from 2 points to 25 on the interior, 8.5 million passengers from 6 airlines today, 7 centers, 47 points from the newly opened Genghis Topel Airport, and 50.5 million domestic passengers as of the end of 2010. The amount of cargo carried was 896 thousand tonnes in 2002, while at the end of 2010 the amount increased to over 2 million tons. The year's increase in this cargo has increased by relatively 10% over the years. We also see the same rapid development on the outside with great pleasure. Outline flights made by 2 airlines in 2002 from one centre to 60 points are now being flown to 174 points by 5 Turkish registered airlines. In this period, the number of passengers increased from 75 million to 52 million. It is good to see that these developments continue as of 2011. However, I'd like to inform you a little bit about the Ağrı Airport. In 2008, the number of passengers with 8.538 in 2001 has reached 60,360. In 2011, the total reached 75,826 people so far. The province of Ağrı is held by Anadolujet and Turkish Airlines on 12 tours a week from Ankara and Istanbul. However, I'd like to present to you some of the issues that have been made to the Pain Center again. Especially with Mr. Health Minister here, I thank them very much for this, and on behalf of our province, I am grateful. Our -- the Department of Justice and the Ministry of Health -- Pain, of course, has received a medical examiner for the first time in years. So, our funerals so far were going from here to Tripoli, or in the districts of Ağrı, but after that, along with the lottery shoot on 13/10/2011 -- a forensic office has been established in pain -- and our doctor will start as of next week. I'd like to express my thanks again to the Minister. And a thank you for Patnos State Hospital. Our hospital opened with 150 beds. In fact, it's a first-class hospital. I'm here to thank them. Again, I'd like to convey a thank you to our Prime Minister. We had Paper Street. It's been a difficult place for us since '98. On the orders of our Prime Minister, the officialisation of Karazman Street has been made. Hopefully, in the next 2012, it will start to collapse, and Pain will have gone to a different Suhule. Again, we had an urban transformation at the Ağrı center, which I hope will be a much more urban transformation in Pain, since they are our new ministers here. I'm very grateful to our Prime Minister and Minister for this urban transformation, but I'd like to ask them to do the same for our other counties. Again, we have Ibrahim Chechn University, especially at the Ağrı center. Of course, we have a lot of businessmen here, especially at the Ağrı center, and I'd like to thank Mr. Ibrahim here. Especially at Patnos headquarters -- we've made his decision -- we're going to do the necessary work between 2012 and 2012, with one four-year-old and one two-year-old college. That's why we're going to bring Patnos a nice investment. I wish you all the best, the best, the best, the best.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0072par0089	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0073par0096	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the 3rd Amendment of the Dair Law Bill, that it is proper to ratify the Agreement between the current Turkish Republic's government and the New Zealand Government, and I salute you with respect and love. Of course, these air services, ours, are mostly Turkish Airlines in Turkey, but there's an injustice going on there, I'd like to say. In these foreign trips of Turkish Airlines, almost all newspapers are available on airplanes on foreign travel, but not in spite of the request of the Speaker newspaper, Aydın daily and Yeniçağ daily. I referred this to the Minister with a motion to question him. They said that Turkish Airlines was a private company, that it was their discretion. I don't think that's very accurate. I hope and wish that Turkish Airlines would immediately give up this practice, stop taking revenge on the Speaker newspaper, the daily Light, and remember that their readers were Turkish citizens and they were taxpayers. So he does the same app as any other newspaper. By the way, dear lawmakers, we're all upset that our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan got sick and had an operation. I wish the Prime Minister a speedy recovery first. I pray to God that he will return to his health and return to his duties. But we also have the Minister of Health here. Our Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Personally, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's illness, his illness, is of little interest to the public. However, every Turkish citizen has the right to ask for accurate information about the health of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Every citizen, our people, expects a serious medical authority to explain the health of their own Prime Minister. It's the right of the people. They need to know the health of their own Prime Minister. I think it would at least prevent speculation from happening or coming, Mr. Secretary. Again, I wish our Prime Minister a speedy recovery. My dear friends, again on December 4th, this week is World Miners' Day. You know, December 4th has been declared the Miners' Day and December 4th Week all over the world. In the Roman era, a truly blue-eyed, silk-haired, blonde Santa Barbara, the beautiful Santa Barbara, escapes the wrath of her father, taking refuge in a gallery in the Roman era. He's holed up in a gallery where the miners work. The gallery is believed to protect miners and then celebrated as the patron saint of miners, December 4th Miners Day. So the day that Santa Barbara was declared patron saint of miners on December 4th and Santa Barbara on the territory of Anatolia, this story was celebrated in Turkey for the first time on December 4th, especially in Izmit, and then celebrated as World Mining Day all over the world. Of course, even when we're sitting here, even on this bench we're talking about, the mining industry and miners have a lot of hard work. In our country today, the mining industry, which really works underground with a thousand challenges, is an underground operating sector, as if -- probably because it's underground -- as if it's an illegal activity, the miners are actually dealing with underground, illegal activities. That's not very true. The level of a country's development depends on how efficient and efficient it evaluates its underground resources and how much it offers underground resources to the service of the economy. The countries that do not evaluate their own underground resources and are effectively and efficiently unable to bring it into public service are the countries that are impossible to develop. The mining industry is a really heavy industry. It's the most dangerous line of work. It's just not right to say it and avoid it. The most dangerous business accidents occur in the mining industry. Today we are number three in the world, number one in Europe, in terms of business accidents. The important thing is to take precautions before they die, to call out after death, "ah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, hur, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, The important thing is to take care of these accidents before business accidents occur. 79 miners died last year. Still underground, nine mining workers, one of whom is a mining engineer, one of whom is a geology engineer, are waiting under a ton of cubic metres of ground. In a mining accident in the Zonguldak Karadon region, two of our workers were released six months later. The Minister of Labour and Social Security of that day died beautifully when he needed to address and take precautions. I can tell from here that they didn't suffer, and that they died physically well. With these insights, my dear friends, we can't really avoid them. What's important is that the mining day will be celebrated on the next 4th of December, and I really hope that the mining holiday will be celebrated in a painless setting. I salute everyone who contributes to the mining sector, from our students here at the mining faculty to our teachers and our underground workers to our engineers, to our employers, and I send my regards to everyone. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I'd like to bring one more thing to your attention. You know, the relatives of those who died in these unsolved political murders created a platform called the Social Memory Platform. They came here last year, they visited all the groups, they visited our Speaker, and they asked the House to set up a parliamentary research commission to investigate these unsolved political murders, so they didn't ask parliament for a tender, they didn't ask us for anything else, they didn't ask for a job. They just said: "Build a research commission." We want to know why these relatives of ours died. They said, "We want to know why." And in the course of the 23rd term, six times in the 23rd term, me and my friends and my friends were rejected. The BDP Group gave it to me three times, and it's been rejected. We brought it back this semester, and these people's expectations didn't end with us. These people, the relatives of those who died in these unsolved political murders, visited the Assembly again yesterday. They met with BDP and CHP, whose group was in parliament, and I don't know if they were meeting with AKP and DP, but they also met with our Parliament Speaker.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0074par0107	They couldn't meet, they didn't make an appointment, the AKP people!
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0073par0108	And these have renewed their demands, as Parliament is the focus of the national will, since this Parliament is the only source of light in the past of the democratic state of law, so we want our relatives, our fathers, our wives, our children, our husbands, our husbands, our mothers, who killed them, and the dark relations behind them to be revealed. I'm hoping that this House -- and I hope -- will respond to that expectation as soon as possible. And as the ruling party and the majority party, I call it the Justice and Development Party, and I think they're going to be positive about it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0075par0111	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0076par0115	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the bill of law 21st rows. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, this contract signed between the government of New Zealand and the Republic of Turkey on March 4, 2010 will provide direct flight between New Zealand and Turkey, if not, an indirect flight. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, historical relations between New Zealand and Turkey, you know, in 1915, the battle of giants faced two nations in Çanakkale. Sadly, there were New Zealand troops and Australian troops in what was then called Anzaks. On the way to becoming a nation state, they entered a national struggle in their own name. But, of course, they were British exploitation. The Anzac faced the soldiers of the Ottoman Empire at the Çanakkale War. It was such a war that, on the brink of this war, a brotherhood, a friendship, for the first time, was created in the battle of these giants. The historic process went on like this, and when we arrived, you know, the international agreement, with the fact that the flight distance between New Zealand and Turkey is very long, signed in Chicago, 1944, and the government of the Republic of Turkey signed a contract on March 4, 2010, meeting with the New Zealand government. Under this contract, this contract was signed to improve air competition, improve air trade and ensure air safety. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the AK PARTY, came to power on 3 November 2002. From the time the EC PARTI government came to power, our reputation, stability, outside dignity, stability, political stability has been achieved, economic stability has been achieved, and our volume of foreign trade has improved. Our export has exceeded $130 billion as of today's date. All of this has developed with international contracts, our reputation outside, economic stability. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish to continue our stability, to wish that this international agreement would be a blessing to the people of the two countries, and I salute the High Assembly again.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0077par0122	Thank you, Mr. Can. Now, Smurf Ünal, the Istanbul MP who asked for a word on his behalf. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0078par0126	Mr. President, I have made a solemn pledge to the State of Turkey and to the Government of New Zealand to ratify the Agreement for Air Services. Dear lawmakers, the International Civil Aviation Convention is the international basis of the bill. As you know, the International Civil Aviation Agreement, drafted by fifty-two representatives of the countries in Chicago, in November 1944, was opened in Washington, Washington, on 7 December 1944, in an effort to resolve the main political and technical problems that took place after World War II. The aim of the deal, also referred to as the Chicago Convention, is to ensure that international civilian aviation can develop in a secure and orderly manner and to ensure that civil aviation services can be carried out in a solid and economic manner on the basis of equal opportunities. Under Article 43 of the agreement, the establishment of the International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO (ICAO) was adopted as temporary ICAO until the establishment of a permanent structure was established. Turkey sided with June 5, 1945, and with Act 4749. As of today, the number of ICAO member states has reached 190. The government of New Zealand is one of the countries that is part of the ICAO Agreement, just like us. The costs of the International Civil Aviation Service are mainly covered by the contributions of member states. Our country pays a share of about $318,000 per thousand. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to present to you some of the purposes of the Chicago Convention due to a lack of time. Our design is based on national law, the Turkish Civil Aviation Act No. 2920 of 1983. Precious lawmakers are intended to boost international aviation systems based on competition in the airspace and develop airways with innovative and competitive services, as it aims to further relations between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of New Zealand and the government of New Zealand, under an agreement on 4 March 2010. There are no direct flights between us and New Zealand. It is clear that flights between the two countries can be planned if the agreement is in effect, in order to be shared by code and through other countries. In the event of ratification of the bill, both Turkish private sector aviation companies and Turkish Airlines Anonymous will be able to benefit from this legal arrangement. In regards to private sector aviation services, I'd like to give you a few digits, if I may. Our passenger capacity has exceeded 30,000, the number of passengers has reached 157, the cargo capacity has reached 888 tonnes, our cargo plane number has reached 21, and our total number of companies is now 28. As of August 2011, the Turkish Airways Association fleet was able to deliver its property to 171 modern aircraft and 62 rental status. The total number of aircraft in our airlines increased by 215 percent in 2002, reaching 347, during the nine-month period of AK PARTI power at 110. In this metaphor, we also need to address the sectoral size of 2002 to 2011. I'd just like to point out the two numbers: seat capacity from about 27 thousand to 61 thousand, cargo capacity from 215 tons to 1,250 tons. Thus, in 2011, the number of employees in the sector rose to $110,000, while the sector turnover, which was $2.2 billion in 2002, rose to over $12 billion today. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a result, I wish you all the blessings of this airway agreement between our 21 articles and 1 supplementary government and the government of New Zealand.
tbmm-2011-12-06sit03spe0079par0140	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Ünal. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Charter, it is incumbent to show the color of the game and to be against it that Kamer Genç, Tunceli MP... no. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Court of the State of Turkey and the Government of New Zealand have voted openly to approve the Agreement for Air Services: So the bill is accepted and legalized. Members of parliament, since our working time has been completed, even if we have begun a new bill, we cannot complete it, it is Wednesday (December 7th 2011) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
