ParlaMint-DK_20191024100014	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 41 (Proposal for a law on the right of residence). Søren Espersen (DF) and Hans Kristian Skibby (DF): Request no. F 12 (What is the Foreign Minister's position on the application of trade sanctions, and will the Foreign Minister take the initiative to help Danish export companies that are inadvertently affected when Denmark helps to impose trade sanctions against other countries?). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Alex Ahrendtsen (DF): Request no. F 13 (Will the government, based on the already established action areas aimed at bullying in the primary school, explain how the effort has progressed, the extent of the impact of the effort, and how the government will step up its efforts towards bullying in the future, given that there seem to be still major challenges with bullying in the primary school?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100048	The items listed as No. 6 and 7 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100105	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100205	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100232	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted. We have technical problems at a voting place and are finding a new desk from which the vote can be taken. The technique must work so that everyone can cast their vote; otherwise we will go back to voting by redress, but it will be difficult. Work is being done quickly to make the technology work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100437	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100522	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 99 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, ALT and LA), against 11 (EL and NB), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100553	This election is without debate. A unanimous committee has recommended that Henrik Bloch Andersen be elected temporary Ombudsman of the Folketing as from 1 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100555	The committee's recommendation can now be put to the vote. The vote shall be closed. In favour 110 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Henrik Bloch Andersen is then elected temporary Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100656	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100727	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 20 (SF, EL and ALT), against 88 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The division of the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-7, elected by a majority (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024100855	Amendments have been tabled. Member of the Folketing, Mr. Mr Andreas Steenberg (RV) has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 7-11 outside the report back. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, these amendments have lapsed. Amendment No. 5 of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye) and Amendment No. 6 by Mrs Marie Krarup (DF) - both tabled outside the report - can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101027	As stated in yesterday's debate, the Radical Left would like to help take the citizenship of traitors and terrorists, including in absentia, that is, without the person being in the country. We think, and this is absolutely crucial, that this should be done in a court of law, and that is why we have sought to table amendments on it. It then appeared in the committee's proceedings last night that it requires very substantial changes to the law on the administration of justice, in other words a quite different law from that which is the starting point for the legal procedure. In relation to the Constitution, it is not possible at second reading to table amendments on something quite different from what is the starting point of the law. Some amendments have been made by the Legal Secretariat and the Ministry concerning the Code of Procedure. Those amendments suggested that if you were given up to 18 months of unconditional imprisonment, you could be deprived of citizenship in a court of law. We do not think it makes sense that people can only be deprived of citizenship by some of the mildest violations, but not by the most serious. That is why we have chosen to withdraw those amendments because we simply do not think it makes sense. However, we would like to call on the government and other parties, which will probably vote through this law later today, to try to look at these amendments and perhaps work on them, because we think it should be so in a rule of law that it is a court that punishes citizens and not one or more politicians. So this is a call for it, and you can take that along with you. I can, of course, tell you that at the third reading, when we get there, we will be voting against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101222	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, is this a question for the rapporteur, or is it as rapporteur? This is a question for the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101232	It's just a brief comment. Now there are technical reasons behind the withdrawal of the amendment, but that is quite clear what the Radicals and the rapporteur mean in the matter, and I would like to sign for that. What we can see here is that it is not a question of whether you are for or against Syrian warriors. Radicals make it very clear that radicals also want us to deal with whether or not they should have taken away their citizenship while they are outside the country's borders. I think that is a good thing. Then there is disagreement as to whether the decision can be taken at first instance as an administrative decision. That disagreement is, in fact, also clear. I would just like to acknowledge that the Radicals here today say very clearly that they want to deal with the issue of citizenship/non-citizenship while these people are far away from Denmark. We can then say that, from the perspective of the Social Democratic Party, we will adopt the bill later today, but it is probably quite obvious that we have not finished discussing this issue yet, and then we can take on board the ideas expressed by the rapporteur of the Radicals today. So it was kind of just to sign for the post.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101340	Then I can sign back on that speech and hope that the Social Democrats will take these thoughts with us when we discuss this again. Because probably and hopefully there will be a so-called sunset clause in this bill, so we will have to discuss it again later. Then I think it would be obvious for other parties in this Chamber too to take this with us, because we think it should be the case that it is a court that makes that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101414	Yesterday, before the debate began, we had a discussion on whether we should deal with this proposal as a matter of urgency. There was over three quarters of the majority in this Parliament for us to do so. Yesterday we had a fundamental and fundamental debate on some crucial issues in relation to the fact that Denmark is a constitutional state, issues relating to the constitution, issues relating to the international conventions, a very fundamental and fundamental debate. In the course of the debate, we were then given a timetable, not one that was adopted in committee, but one that we had sent around. It was then dealt with by the committee yesterday at 9 a.m. 6. At 14 minutes to 6, we had a draft report which we could then take a position on before we had to table a report. And here tonight at 2:00 a.m. We had three amendments released outside the report, which we must also take a position on today, one of which has been withdrawn. I think it is a very good illustration of what happens when we deal urgently with such a draft law here. A bill is being tabled, we are proposing technical assistance for drafting amendments, we are in dialogue with the Ministry, they are working late to draft it, and then it turns out that it has to be withdrawn because it is not enough. I think it is totally unacceptable when we talk about such fundamental issues. And I would just like to urge that, in making such far-reaching decisions in relation to how our society is basically organized, we give ourselves sufficient time to deal properly with this Parliament. Now it is the case that if the Radicals had tabled their proposals, we would have voted blankly on it, because there is no doubt that it would have been an improvement in the existing legislative proposal, but at the same time there are major challenges of principle in it, so we have not had time to take a careful look at it in relation to our position. Now we get rid of it because Radicals have drawn it. Amendments have been tabled by the Minister and Mrs Krarup, and I would just like to announce that we will be voting against the two amendments and that we will, of course, also be voting against the overall proposal. But what is absolutely crucial about this is the procedure; it has simply been a completely unacceptable process when we talk about such far-reaching decisions on the organisation of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101643	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101647	The Enhedslisten is, of course, right that it is not optimal with such a quick legal procedure, that is also why we do not normally do so, but I think it is very one-sided when Enhedslisten does not reflect at all on what the cost will be if we did not deal with this bill quickly. Well, the thing is that we are dealing with some potentially very, very dangerous people, terrorists, people who have probably been down fighting for the Islamic State, one of the worst terrorist movements we are dealing with at all, and the consequences of letting them into Denmark are therefore also quite great. Therefore, I would like to hear Enhedslisten just reflect on the balance between the two considerations. For us, it is of course about Denmark's security, it is about protecting Denmark from some extremely dangerous people that we do not want to have in our country. Is that a consideration that Enhedslisten has even considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101741	This is indeed a consideration that Enhedslisten has considered. After all, we had the substantive debate yesterday, and I can only say that there is a majority in this Parliament who is more concerned with taking citizenship from people than they are with punishing them for the actions they have committed. For the consequence of the legislation we are adopting today is that the citizens are not prosecuted, that they are not brought to justice, because the crimes they have committed against humanity, that is, the war crimes they have committed; the quite unreasonable and unimaginable crimes they have committed, we are not punishing them for. We're not putting them in court, we're just depriving them of citizenship. And then I think that the majority and Mr. Rasmus Jarlov should consider how it affects the legal status of Danish citizens in this country, i.e. both citizens in this country and citizens in the world, moreover, that we let people commit such acts without us bringing them to justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101828	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101830	It is again, I think, an extremely one-sided presentation of this matter. The problem is, of course, that it is fairly difficult to carry out legal proceedings on what has been going on in Syria. We cannot get witnesses, we cannot get detailed explanations of what has been going on down there. So imagining that you should have them up here and then bring legal proceedings against them, where you should uncover what the individual has done down there, is very hopeless, and the consequence of that will not be that they will go to prison in Denmark. The consequence of this will be very likely that they will go free, get on cash assistance in Denmark, and that some of them will one day commit terrorist acts in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101910	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101912	After all, it is quite unique to hear a Conservative rapporteur stand and argue that it is not worth prosecuting people because it becomes too difficult to prove it. Well, I assume that in a rule of law we have the opportunity to obtain evidence so that we can prosecute them. Moreover, that would also be the consequence of the legislative proposal we are adopting here. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is to sit and exercise his powers and say that these people have violated Chapter 12 and Chapter 13 of the Criminal Code, this is also done on the basis of a concrete assessment of the evidence that has been carried out. So there's proof to be provided, no matter what. Moreover, I think that the Danish state could have done something much earlier to assist the Kurdish authorities and thus have ensured that proper proof could be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101949	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see there is just a request for a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024101956	Thank you so much. As I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur does not think it is a punishment to have his Danish citizenship taken away, so I would just like to sign for that and say that we must then get some more citizenship taken from people who should never have had them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102012	I think that when you are legally and permanently resident in a country, you also have fundamental democratic rights, such as being able to participate in parliamentary elections. But we are talking about people who are suspected of committing war crimes, of having committed crimes against humanity, of having killed, of having raped, of having committed crimes of an unimaginable nature, and the only punishment we can put them in view is to deprive them of Danish citizenship. I think that's poor. I think those people should be tried, I think they should have a trial, and if they can be found guilty, I think they should be punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102046	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102049	Should I understand the rapporteur's view that there should be longer penalties than there is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102057	I can't stand here and convict it. I do not know what kind of specific case Mrs Mette Thiesen thinks there should be longer punishment for. I note that here in the Folketing we adopt the legislation, and then we leave it to the courts to implement that legislation. And that, of course, means that if there is a suspect, he must be brought before a court of law which must be given a fair trial and subsequently there must be a penalty, and then he must be punished accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments. The next rapporteur is as a privateist, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102143	For 10 years, Danish politicians in the European Parliament and in changing governments have also tried to change the system of sanctions in the EU in relation to countries that confuse the division of power. We know that we are talking about Hungary and Poland in this context, and we have recently, at a European committee meeting, dealt with the matter with a proposal from the Commission in which we want to pursue those countries which do not understand the division of power. Am I dreaming or am I awake? Am I dreaming or am I awake? Am I dreaming or am I awake? For 100 years this year, for 100 years, we have had a law on the administration of justice in which, in the case of criminal law, i.e. violation of the criminal code, we have had an accusatory principle of law, understood in the sense that there is a judge in the middle, there is a defender on the one hand, and there is a prosecutor on the other. The prosecution must be objective... that doesn't have to be the defender. This accusatory principle of law was introduced after 70 years of struggle, from 1849 onwards, three commissions and very hard struggles in the rule of law. For 100 years, we have had that principle when it comes to violating the criminal code. Am I dreaming or am I awake? I believe that we are in a decline in the culture of law here. The truth is that everything we experience here is full of contradictions in relation to everything else we say about the rule of law; everything we pride ourselves on as Danes and the rule of law for which we have built and fought so hard; everything we ask other countries to take care and take responsibility. In relation to what we are doing here today, this is a huge contradiction. I am quite convinced that when there is a trial of this at the Supreme Court, the arguments that there is a real judicial system will crumble, because how will those sitting somewhere in a refugee camp or in a cell ever be able to make representations within four weeks, let alone find out that they have been deprived of their citizenship when they get their service in e-Boks. I don't think it's gonna hold up in a court of law. This brings us back to the Thunder Act in 1996, which Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech describes quite excellently in a quite excellent book called "Then politics went into it, which I also allowed myself to take with me yesterday. I'd be happy to use both of them, sir. Per Stig Møller and Mr. Preben Wilhjel and also Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech, because I have no illusions that I can convince Members of the House to think twice. But these people, who have written good books about this kind of thing, should sort of be able to get some thought going. I am just quoting Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech here from the book: With the Tvindloven, the Danish Parliament, without trial of the evidence, declared a guilt and made itself not only an executive but a judicial power. The citizens' right to justice was suspended, but the Minister of Education did not tell the full truth about this connection to the Folketing. On the way, however, he was so distressed that he repeatedly changed his explanation. The Minister hasn't done that. In this case, the Minister has not once commented on all the legal policy concerns that we expressed in yesterday's debate. I hope that the Minister will answer some of these questions here today. Because the matter is far too serious for legal policy concerns to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of questions for the rapporteur. First, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102713	I would just like to help the rapporteur to answer his question, because we can look back a little over five to six years, I think. At that time, we had a debate on other administrative powers which were granted to the Minister, namely the administrative expulsion of foreigners. It was a different time, it was another party that the privateist belonged to... maybe it was therefore another philosophical mood he was in at the time. For at that time he had no difficulty in handing over such powers to a minister without judicial review. That is why I would just like to help the rapporteur come to his conclusion. I feel completely convinced that he is dreaming and is far, far away from the waking state.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102759	But that's not true, sir. Morten Messerschmidt that I had no doubts about it at the time. That was one of the reasons why, while I was a member of the Left, I was constantly accused by my former party colleagues of being radical. It was precisely because I opposed such decisions. So I was pretty loud about that. And I'm quite sure that if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asks the good Leftmen who are sitting down here, so they will answer that that was one of the reasons why they were well and thoroughly tired of me so that I constantly made an outcry against that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102828	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt? No. The next question on short remarks is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102836	Sir. Jens Rohde asks if he's awake, and there we have to say it doesn't seem like it. It does not seem to have been followed in the debate on the division of power, where there were quite a number of rapporteurs who also pointed out that the division of three that we have is being maintained, in that it is the Folketing that continues to make the law and that there is a possibility of judicial review of these decisions. So this is not the dramatic break with either the constitution or the division of power, which the Radicals and other parties on the left are trying to interpret as such. And if it was, you could really try it at the Supreme Court, and then you had to see how it fell out. However, the mere slinging around with allegations of violation of the constitution, for which there is no evidence, and which also has no support in the academic environment, seems to me to be a little irresponsible. I think that the Radicals should also wake up when this is a very serious matter. This is a very serious threat to Denmark that we are trying to address with this. I think that, like the Enhedslisten, Radicals at least owe it to balance the two considerations with each other rather than just look it up as if you are some noble defender of the rule of law in Denmark. What you defend is the rights of the Syrian warriors. The rest of us are also concerned about Denmark's security.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024102950	No, I certainly am not defending the rights of the Syrian warriors. I am defending your rights and my rights, because that is what the rule of law is all about: defending everyone's rights. Because if we first open up this Inquisitoric principle of law in relation to breaches of the criminal code, it is very easy to decide which majority is in the Parliament to include other provisions in the law, and that is what is dangerous. That's why we have a constitution. In other words, all the academic environments doubt that there is a real judicial system, even if one compares with the discussion about the Trendsloven at the time, which was just about it. So, the premise in the Thunder Act was that there was no real judicial review, so it became known illegally by the Supreme Court. If there is no real judicial review, and that is the question here, then that is what will probably be tried at a later stage, and that is what the court will have to rely on. I feel it is my duty to point out that there is a risk here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103056	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103057	I just have to say that if there is a breach of the Constitution, one can be quite calm that the law will be overruled, and then we have a process for it. Until then, I have to say that I consider that there is no such thing. I cannot see for myself that there should be a breach of the Constitution, nor is it the view of the government and its lawyers that there should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103118	It wasn't in 1996. Now it is the case that, unfortunately, there is no court of review in the Constitution in relation to the Supreme Court, so we do not know whether it will be tried by the Supreme Court. That's the truth. But I just want to say that if I believed that this gave more security for Danish citizens abroad and in Denmark, then it would make sense to discuss it as an exception rule in relation to the current situation. But this doesn't give any more certainty, because it doesn't prevent anyone. It's the truth about this proposal, and that's why it's disproportionate distortion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103156	The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103201	I really wish that the rapporteur was not dreaming, but that the rapporteur was awake. By being in that dream state where you sit on the high horse and call on high, fine, clever principles, you fail the very concrete everyday life, the waking everyday life in which we find ourselves, where Denmark's safety must and should be paramount. I find it regrettable that the rapporteur should be included in this long and sad radical story, which fails to give up concrete security and concrete, real Denmark. It is not a question of destroying and breaking down sacred legal principles here; it is a defence of Denmark's security. Unfortunately, it is half-hearted because it is only a small group of foreign fighters against which we should defend Denmark, but fortunately it is far better than nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103306	Honour to the one who should be honored. It has to be said that Mrs Krarup is at least consistent in her argument that this is a security issue. For it is a little bizarre to claim that one can deal with the very large group that has only one citizenship, with border controls and everything else we have, and in our system of legal certainty by putting them behind bars and slapping and aiming them and giving them a trial, but one cannot deal with the tiny group that has dual citizenship. That doesn't make any sense. It is fair to say that the Danish People's Party is implementing their security argument... you cannot say that about the other parties... but that does not change the fact that I do not believe that this in any way increases our security. For the best security for all people is that the people who commit crimes and treason come behind lockdown.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103407	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103409	Well, it is nice that we agree on one point here, and that is that it is of course important to take the citizenship of all foreign fighters who pose a threat to Denmark. In addition, however, I would like the rapporteur to wake up in the other areas and vote in favour of a bill guaranteeing Denmark's security, rather than talking about higher principles, while the country is threatened by very specific threats, which can in fact be defended against.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103442	I am not arguing in any way for taking citizenship away from anyone, and certainly not without judicial review. I don't. Unfortunately, I am awake because I see that there is a majority that does not take the rule of law seriously. And it is pointless to dismiss principles as mere principles. They are the prerequisites for the life we live in
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103532	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 outside the report by Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party, and the vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour 13 (DF and NB), against 94 (S, V, 1 DF (by mistake), RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-3, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF)? They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration? The vote is requested on Amendment No 1, tabled by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It will be a little while before the vote can begin, but it is a vote on Amendment No. 5 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. We can now vote on Amendment No. 5 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 88 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 11 (EL and ALT), abstentions 9 (SF). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, elected by a majority (S, V, RV, SF and EL)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024103842	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. Parliament's next meeting will take place today, Thursday 24 October 2019, 10.50 pm. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
