ParlaMint-DK_20190111100046	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jacob Mark (SF) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 75 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the minimum age for transition to kindergarten). Søren Søndergaard (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 76 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accommodation of families with children refused asylum). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Nicolai Wammen, to the National Bank of Denmark, for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Henrik Sass Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100148	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100210	Thank you for that, President. For the Social Democrats, it is important that practice is strengthened. We see it as crucial that practice subjects receive a higher priority on the school schedule. Today's draft law represents a step in the right direction. After all, this is the first step on the road, and we have already been negotiating for a long time. Today it is the case that the only practical subject in education is sport, and that is why we want to do something about it. In Denmark we find that there is undoubtedly a distortion in pupils' choice of upper secondary education. Too few people choose vocational training and one of the problems is that there is not as natural a overlap between primary and vocational schools as there is between primary and secondary schools. Through increased practice in primary and lower secondary schools, pupils' incentives to choose vocational training are strengthened. It is therefore essential that the focus on professionalism and practice in primary and lower secondary schools should continue to be increased. And what's this bill about? First of all, you have to have a 2-year elective in the 7th and 8th classes, which are targeted at the practical-music subjects. All schools must offer craftsmanship and design, and you can expand with visual arts, food knowledge or music. We consider it legitimate that we should also have tests in the field of practice, and that is why we see it as a good idea that we have decided in this way. It is important that pupils' competences in practical subjects are given greater weight in line with the other subjects of the primary school, and it is central when pupils have to choose further in the system that they have also had some professionalism in the primary school. In addition, we grant the right to internship. We would very much have liked it if it had been said that everyone should be internship, but it is a significant step that one has been given the right to internship. This promotes the link between primary and vocational education and training, but it is the case that we should bear in mind that it is not only the most resourceful pupils who come into the internship and use the law, and that is why I believe that schools should have a strong focus on all pupils entering the internship. Finally, we very much welcome the fact that you will now also have to have a practical folkus in the mandatory 9th grade project task. Students must be given the opportunity to show their practical-music value when it comes to learning with both their heads and their hands. That is why we welcome the fact that the interdisciplinary nature of the primary school is also increased through this proposal. Although we have a positive view of the draft law, we recognise that further initiatives need to be taken to increase access to vocational training. That's why there's one of them. A group of experts has been set up to look at bridge-building and transitions between primary and secondary schools, and at the same time a little more attention needs to be paid to the upv, i.e. to the assessment of readiness for education. So this is the first step on the way. We welcome the fact that we have already negotiated the second step on the road, and that is, of course, something we are voting in favour of. And I should like to say from the SF that they are also voting in favour of this bill, because of course it is an agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100524	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100527	Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind. There are four practical-music lines in the 7th and 8th classes. There will be a mandatory line called craftsmanship and design, so students from 4th to 8th can get craftsmanship and design. Then there will be the possibility of music from 1st to 8th grade and food knowledge from 4th to 8th grade. Art will then be from 1st to 5th grade and from 7th to 8th grade. That means there's a hole in the sixth grade. Are the Social Democrats willing to find 6th-grade classes for visual arts, so that visual arts, in line with the other three, can have a coherent course? We are currently discussing this with the Minister. It has been very difficult to find out whether the Socialists will support the idea of having visual art in the sixth grade, and I would really like to have an answer to that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100630	We would like to strengthen practice. We can do that in a lot of ways. What we are discussing right now is a shorter school day and whether there should be more professional hours. We see a great strength in the fact that we have a varied teaching. We see a great strength in the fact that you have an open school, that you have movement, and the elements that we decided when we made the reform, we think, in this sense, that are important. If it is the case that you think school days are long, it will be even longer if you put in more professional classes and you take more of the same thing. We would like to take part in a look at whether there should be more practical subjects, also in the intermediate stage and the schooling. Actually, that's what we think it should be. However, what we are debating now is whether or not to take classes in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100719	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen again, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100721	That wasn't an answer. What I am asking is whether the Social Democrats will help convert some support lessons into 6th grade so that we can get visual art into 6th grade, where there is a hole today. That is a very specific question. It's not about a longer school day, because school day will be the same. That is a very specific question. The reason I ask is that the artists are naturally interested in the position of the Socialists. The Danish People's Party is actually very clear. There will soon be a choice, and I hope that the Social Democrats will help the students to get visual art in the sixth grade as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100800	After all, this is an issue that involves the discussions we have over in the Ministry of Finance on the primary school negotiations. I do not think it is appropriate to stand here and discuss it. It is the case that we have clearly stated that we do not exchange supporting lessons for professional courses. Whether it is visual art, we have made it clear that we want to contribute to more professionalism and practice both in schooling and in the intermediate stage. In fact, I think it is appropriate to say that. Negotiations do not stand and talk about in the speaking chair of the Folketing before a solution has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100845	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111100907	Thank you, President. This bill is, of course, in many ways a clash with many decades of social democratic and radical policy, which has increasingly sought to theoreticalize primary school and to bring students more and more into high school, which has also succeeded. With the efforts of the Danish People's Party over the past many years, we have turned our attention to the practice of primary school. Our efforts have meant that today we are helping to improve the imbalance that has been going on for many years. In the spring, the Danish People's Party issued its proposal on increased practice in the primary school, and much of this is included in the draft law today, and of course we would like to acknowledge and thank the Minister and the government for having listened and entered into an excellent collaboration on this. So what does the bill contain? It now offers four practical and musical lines. One line is mandatoryly understood in the way that the municipalities must offer craftsmanship and design in the 7th and 8th grade, with which the students can then have craftsmanship and design from 4th to 8th grade, which is excellent. And it even needs to be completed with a sample, and the sample triggers a character. It is a practical test and it will be on the diploma. This will also make it easier to carry out a practical training qualification assessment, which has also been agreed with the government. In addition, there is the possibility for municipalities to create three other musical-practical lines. One is food knowledge, the other is music, and the third is art. Especially in relation to the music we have been trying for years to convince the other parties that it is important to have it in school. Now it becomes an opportunity for students in certain schools to start with music from 1st to 8th grade with a test. There will also be an opportunity to have food knowledge from 4th to 8th grade, which is also excellent, especially with the proud food traditions we have in Denmark. Then there will be the possibility of visual art from 1st to 5th grade and from 7th to 8th grade. The hole we have in the sixth grade, we simply need to patch it up. After all, I was trying to blow off the Social Democratic Party an answer. That was a non-answer, and I hope, of course, that other parties can see that it is not very clever that you do not have visual art in the 6th grade. We have a choice ahead of us, and I look forward, of course, to giving the many artists who are interested in this, the answer that we are now, of course, making sure that the 6th class also gets visual art, so that you can have a coherent course from 1st to 8th grade in visual art. That would be a great signal to send. Social democracy obviously does not want to be involved, but I hope that others will want to be involved. That would be so good. Of course, we need to be able to discuss positions in the Parliamentary Assembly. In addition, there will of course be a mandatory test. This will also apply to free schools, youth schools and post-schools. There will be a mandatory project task with a clear practical element which, as far as I remember, was a very strong wish from the SF and we supported it wholeheartedly. In addition, there is also the possibility that in future students will be entitled to work experience. The Danish People's Party has long been advocating that the business practices should be strengthened in the primary school. This is an excellent element in increasing pupils' interest in vocational training in one context or another. And what is going to happen in practice is, of course, that it will be complementary to the existing system. After all, it is up to the municipalities today to decide whether to make business practices compulsory or voluntary, or to leave it up to the heads of schools to decide. From now on, students will have the right to enter vocational training if you can find a place to be yourself. And I think that's great. This is an excellent legislative proposal, and on one point, of course, I agree with the Social Democrats, namely that it is a step forward. We're not quite there. The final goal of the Danish People's Party must of course be that there is a real balance between the practical and theoretical aspects of the primary school, so we lift all students for the benefit of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101357	Thank you. There are no comments. I do not see that the rapporteur of the Left is here, so that is why it is Mr Seligman. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101413	In Enhedslisten we agree with the intention of the bill to strengthen the practical-music subjects in the oldest classes in the primary school. We think it is very good that we are moving towards moving away from too one-sided a focus on academic knowledge and moving in a direction where, hopefully, there will be greater recognition of the practical-music subjects and their importance for the versatile development of the individual student. As several speakers have already said, there is an absolute need for a better balance between academic and practical and application-oriented education in primary schools. That is why, as a starting point, we are also in favour of the proposal here, but at the same time I think there is reason to say that we in the Enhedslist think it is incredibly unambitious. First of all, we are dissatisfied with the fact that there is no funding for the costs that the proposal will bring with it in schools. It is not a view we stand alone with, I can see from the consultation answers; it is a view expressed by the National Association of Municipalities, it is a view expressed by the Danish Teacher's Association, and it is a view that is even very strong in the hearing answer that lies from the School Leader's Association. The cost of creating more and better professional rooms is simply not being paid for, nor is there any provision for further training for teachers. And that means, of course, that unless the municipalities choose to give more money to the public schools, wherever they have to find them on the tight municipal budgets, they will have to pick up the money elsewhere in the schools' budgets. It's really a shame, I think, that all the good conversation you could say on a bad day all the talk about strengthening the practical-music subjects ends up with a proposal like this, which seems somewhat half-hearted. I think it has to be said that improvements that must not cost anything can easily end up as hot air. In general, there is a huge need for more funding to be provided to the primary school. We are discussing this in many other contexts. I think it is quite obvious here that if we really believe that there should be a strengthening of the practical and musical professions, then we have to keep money going. There is simply not enough work space, and this does not make it clear that several of the consultations have so much to do with having a sufficient number of teachers with professional skills in these areas, and that is why there is a need for a substantial increase in continuing training. In short, I have to say that we think it is a very, very small step that is being taken. On the other hand, as I have said, we agree that we need to move towards strengthening the practical and musical subjects in primary school. We see this as a very small step, but a small step in the right direction. That is why we shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101748	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101754	The Enhedslisten is not in the public school circle, but it is, of course, gratifying to vote in favour of this excellent draft law. There is one small thing that I would like to ask Enhedslisten about, and this is about the subject of visual art, which is from 1st to 5th grade, and with the bill now with the possibility of from 7th to 8th grade. It's not in the sixth grade. If Enhedslisten now had the opportunity to speak to Social Democracy, and Enhedslisten had a presumption that the Social Democracy would also listen to Enhedslisten, would Enhedslisten suggest that art also come as a subject in the 6th grade, of course without the school day being any longer?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101842	After all, Enhedslisten is not conducting his education policy through the Social Democracy, so we will probably choose a different path. We believe in the Enhedslisten that there is a need to create a completely different majority to make primary school policy in this country. I do not want to hide the fact that we think that the parties to the left should gather together with the Radicals and the Social Democrats to do another way of conducting primary school policy, because we think that what is going on is far too unambitious. Having said that, we believe that there is a need for us to lift all the practical-music subjects, including visual arts. I have noted the answers we have received, and I myself have also received a number of requests that say that art is under-priority in primary school, and we certainly support that it should be given higher priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101931	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101933	I am not quite sure if I heard what I heard, so now I ask again: Does this mean that Enhedslisten supports that visual art must be offered for the 6th class in future, so that there will be the possibility of a coherent course from 1st to 8th grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111101953	We think, as I say, that visual arts should be given priority. I agree with the many comments we have received from teachers and from their association on how we should do this in detail. We have the problem here that we are now implementing a system for which there really is no proper funding. But yes, we support that visual arts should be given higher priority in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102018	Thank you. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102026	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. A lot of young people and it's actually my own son included that's moving on from primary school, tending to completely per year. automatic choice of high school, and there may be many reasons for that, but one of them is enough that it is not at all part of their consciousness that there are actually other options. During most of their school hours, the teaching has been directed towards the more academic competences. No wonder, then, that vocational training is not at all on the radar of young people. In the Liberal Alliance, we have been thinking for years that we should do something more to motivate young people to take a vocational education, and we do so, among other things. with the present draft law. The high school is not necessarily for everyone, and at a time when many Danish companies are actually screaming at skilled labour, we need to make an extra effort to get more young people to choose that particular path, and with this bill we give all students the opportunity to become more familiar with the joys of the craftsmanship, while giving them the freedom to choose their own future. The bill here is part of a greater effort to strengthen the practice of primary school, and in the Liberal Alliance we look forward to the future initiatives. Because it is actually a subject that is very important to us and that is why, of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102207	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102216	Thank you so much. In the alternative, we support this bill, and we do so on the basis of a premise that we recognise the purpose and purpose. We are not quite sure that this will have the effect that we hope. We can be a little worried about that. Because, in line with Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we may think that this is a little bit a patchy solution to a problem which should probably be dealt with a little more basically. When I say that, it is because we can say that we want to strengthen the motivation of students to take a vocational training course by putting some electives into training and making it a trial subject. I can be concerned about whether it will work and whether it is simply what needs to be done. When I say that, it is because, if it were up to the Alternative and it is also a little bit of an answer to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's question to the other rapporteurs ^ would have liked to have a much greater weighting of the creative, craftsmanship and musical subjects all the way up the school system, i.e. from 0 to 9th grade. One of the things we have advocated several times when we have talked about school politics is that we simply think that the weighting in primary school is biased today in favour of the academic subjects, and it comes from the conviction that children are born as creative beings, as well as they are born as thinking beings. So if we're going to keep that creative power, the energy it wants to develop and do something with its hands alive all the way up the school system, we can't suddenly make this hole where you have some of the creative subjects in the small classes and then there's a hole and you, for example. In the schooling continues with something more. So we have such a basic view of school policy that in Denmark one is simply not skilled enough to give the creative, musical and craftsmanship subjects focus all the way up through the school system. So we wish we did. But it's better than nothing, and that's why we obviously support this bill. I have a comment to make about making it a trial subject, and there is actually something I do not quite understand. I do not think that making it a trial subject will have any special effect on whether or not to seek vocational training. So, the idea that you have to take a test in something that should be what motivates or makes you engage in a profession, I just don't think it's a thought we subscribe to in the Alternative. So we would have liked to see this not be a trial. But I don't quite understand it either. For the criticism, as I read it in the consultation note, has been from at least the Danish Teachers' Association and the School Leader Association that in the original draft it was like up to the municipalities whether it was to be a trial subject or not. Now the solution becomes a test subject for everyone, where you could have chosen the second solution and said that you would not make it a test subject at all. So I really think it is a pity that, on the basis of the criticism from the Danish Teacher's Association and the School Leader's Association that there could be municipal differences, you have chosen to make a model which then forces everyone to test in this elective subject. We also agree with the criticism made by a number of organisations in relation to the fact that it is only craftsmanship and design that can be done There we can really be a little concerned about what the argument is that it is craftsmanship and design and not one of the other subjects that one should do, but we would rather that the creative-music subjects were treated equally in relation to what is to be offered as electives. With that I will say nothing more than that it is an improvement and that we support it. We would have liked to have seen something that was a little more fundamental in terms of getting the creative and craftsmanship subjects on the school schedule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102605	Thank you. Then there is a comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102610	With the bill we take a first step towards a school where practical-music subjects can fill from 1st to 8th grade, except for visual art, which is from 1st to 5th grade and from 7th to 8th grade. Is the alternative in favour of the possibility of visual art in the sixth grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102638	Yes, we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102640	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102646	Thank you for that very brief but precise answer, and I hope, of course, that the alternative will use its influence and make it known to the somewhat hesitant Social Democrats and Unity Listers. I've had a little trouble pulling an answer out of these parties. It is therefore gratifying that the alternative responds so clearly. It would be fine if we had a coherent course • or at least provided the opportunity for it from 1st to 8th grade in visual arts. So thank you for the short answer. It was a pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102709	Thank you to the rapporteur if there are no comments? No. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111102721	Thank you. Before the summer holidays last year, we negotiated in the public school circle how we could get more practical professionalism into primary school, especially at middle level and in secondary school. We succeeded, and we were really, really happy about that. In fact, this is something we have worked for on many fronts through our history. The former Minister for Education Kristen Helveg Petersen also worked for the practice of a renaissance in the primary school, and he suggested that there should be characterization in the subjects, but it was not possible to get through at that time. Now we're gonna make it. In fact, we have an ambition in the Radical Left that one third of the hours consist of humanist subjects, one third of scientific subjects and one third of practical-music subjects. It is a paper that we have produced a few years ago, which is the party's policy in this area, and these are visions that we would like to work for. And to anticipate a question from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, I would say that we are quite prepared to strengthen, for example. visual arts, but also other practical-music subjects by converting other classes to those hours. We do not need as many Danish lessons as there are, in our view. We can convert some Danish lessons into something else. And we would very much like to discuss this in the conciliation circle. So we are open to the step taken here. We are very pleased that the step is being taken. We were very pleased with the agreement we made together with the conciliation parties before the summer holidays, where there was agreement on what we reached and which is reflected in this bill. And we clearly believe that it is important that we create a school everyday day, where we take the practical approach rather than the practical approach that we do very often in a book based on some theories, which may be difficult for some students to handle. So the open school, the varied school day, starting from the practical everyday life around the school, in the field of nature and in connection with companies, art and culture etc. is a very big target for us. The aim is to make it better and make it possible for all children to experience success by also taking a practical approach to the school and its everyday life. So this is a step, and although it may be a small step, it is a very important step we have taken here to break some of the barriers that have been to help parallel the importance of the practical-music subjects and the more theoretical subjects that are at school. So we support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103005	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103008	It is nice that the Left can now count both the Alternative and the Radical Left as supporters of the fact that visual art must also be a subject in the sixth grade. I'd like to sign for that. Where we then have to find the lessons, depends on the forthcoming negotiations. But I would just like to say a preliminary thank you for the fact that Mrs Marianne Jelved has so clearly indicated that visual art must of course also be found in the sixth grade. I hope, of course, that Mrs Marianne Jelved will make her influence felt against a somewhat foot-to-mouth social democracy in these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103051	Thank you. On the other hand, I have also said how I intend to produce that result, namely by converting some other subjects' hours into visual arts, for example. We are completely open to that. Now I am talking about what I call the theoretical subjects, but I mean the humanistic and scientific subjects, and they are also important at school, and it is not to ignore the importance of them, but we have the impression that there are too many and that they are oversized in relation to the practical-music subjects. We would like a conversion that way around, and we would like to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103123	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103124	So we can conclude that the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left agree that there must be visual art in the 6th grade, and that we must find some hours to convert, so that there will be room for visual art in the 6th grade. Where we then have to find the hours, depends on the forthcoming negotiations, and of course I hope that we will be able to reach an agreement. But thank you for the precise answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103150	I have indicated where I think those hours should be taken away, and I stand firm on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103157	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103212	Thank you. Sorry I'm late, and thanks for letting me get on with it. And, unfortunately, since the rapporteur of the Left was unable to be present, I have just promised to read the speech. With the bill we are now considering, it is a change in a number of laws designed to ensure a strengthened practice professionalism in primary school, so that pupils are better able to work with their practical competences. We believe it is important to have more practice in school, because increased practice in primary school will help schools to promote more than today a variety of aspects of pupils' development and learning. The students thus become more aware of their practical skills and become more aware that vocational training is also an opportunity. And that is something that society very much wants. Specifically, the bill means that the elective subjects of the folk schools in the 7th and 8th classes are targeted at the practical-music subjects, making it compulsory for everyone to choose at least one practical-music elective subject in the 7th and 8th classes. Here the primary school pupils must be offered elective craftsmanship and design, and they can be offered one or more of the elective arts, food knowledge and music. And it must be mandatory for the students to choose one of the four electives. In addition, it is proposed that pupils should be tested in the above-mentioned electives after the 8th grade. And the draft law also proposes that the project task in the 9th grade should have a clear practical element in the future. In addition, the existing occupational internship scheme will be extended so that the students will be entitled to an internship for at least one week in both the 8th and the 9th classes. All in all, this is a very good legislative proposal, which, of course, the Left fully supports. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which did not have the opportunity to be here, and say that they naturally also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103418	There are no comments. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103427	We need to create a primary school where students meet both academic and practical challenges. That is why we must take all subjects seriously. Subjects such as visual arts, music, craftsmanship and design are on the form in the smaller classes, but are largely absent in the education. This gives a bias when there is insufficient focus on cultivating the crafts and the practical dimension of the trades. Students with smart hands must be met by just as focused and inspiring instruction as the more academic students. We will come a step closer to this with this bill, which translates both the agreement on strengthened practice in the primary school of June and one of the initiatives in the agreement on vocational training of November. There is not enough focus on cultivating the specific skills and skills required to become a skilled bricklayer, social and health assistant or farmer. The figures almost speak for themselves. 74 percent of the students go to high school after school. One of the explanations for this is that the Danish primary school has a very large focus on words and numbers and not so much on the things created in the practical field and on the application of them. It is good for the brain to work with the hands, and it has a value in itself that the students can commit themselves in a kitchen, provide first aid or use needle and thread. In addition, the practical subjects also provide an opportunity for students to cultivate their creative skills, experiment and translate methods and theories into concrete products. With the bill, we will, among other things. make it compulsory for students in the 7th and 8th classes to have either craftsmanship and design, music, visual arts or food knowledge. The classes come from the students' first electives. We are aware that this means that pupils no longer have a completely free choice between the various electives which the municipalities have so far chosen to offer, at least not in their first electives. As in the past, however, students will be able to choose to have two electives, although this may extend their school day. It is also my hope that all the many creative schools that have created training lines that tone the teaching of the oldest classes will use their imagination to think in the four practical-music electives so that this way of organizing the teaching can last. In addition, the bill contains a proposal to introduce a mandatory test in craftsmanship and design, music, visual arts or food knowledge in the 8th grade, as agreed on 22 November 2018 by the eud contract circle and the public school circle. The test will be included in the pass requirement for the primary school's final examination, so that the test will have the same weight and importance as all other bound tests. This also means that the test must be carried out at test-level free basic schools, post-schools and youth schools. Folkeskole students are also entitled to work experience in the 8th and 9th classes. The hope is that it will give schools a greater incentive to offer all pupils work experience, because we know that work experience helps shape pupils' understanding of working life and is therefore an important building block in the pupils' choice of youth education. Last but not least, we also make sure that practice will fill more of the mandatory project assignment in the 9th grade of the primary school. However, the work has not been done with this bill. The draft law is only an element in a greater effort to strengthen the practice and practical and craft education of the primary school. For example, I have. set in motion a practical development project in which primary and vocational schools will jointly develop and test practice courses and contribute to developing inspirational material for teachers in all the schools in the country. Then, as I said last November, a political agreement has been reached on vocational schools. The agreement •From primary school to skilled • Vocational education to the future• also has initiatives to strengthen the practical subjects in the primary school. However, it is only the agreement on the test in the practical-music elective subjects that is included in this bill. I look forward to any questions you may have during the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103825	Thank you. There are no comments. I would recommend that, in exceptional circumstances, when photographing in the Parliamentary Chamber, you do so discreetly. Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103854	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111103909	Thank you very much, President. Wow, some tall guys who've been here before me. I understand that it may immediately sound like a promising idea or even a good idea to introduce requirements for lists of chemicals in toys. However, as I have already mentioned, it is just not very useful in the real world, and at the same time it is at risk of transferring responsibility to consumers, in this case typically parents, where, in my view, it certainly does not belong. Yesterday I was with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's chemical inspection on toy control in Aarhus, where we extracted mucus and model wax for control analysis. Control confirms to me that it is difficult to use a content list for toys for so much. What needs to be checked in this case is the handing-out of, among other things. boron. If the mucus contains boron, it will appear on a list of contents, but you will not be able to see how much is released, and that is where the problem lies. It is also true that toys must not generally contain and release chemical substances in quantities that are harmful to children playing with toys, and I find it difficult to imagine that a toy manufacturer will indicate on the toy that it contains illegal substances. If toys contain chemicals that could pose a risk to children, then toys are prohibited and we need to set a limit value for the specific substances that ensure that the toys do not pose a risk. So there are several good reasons why mandatory content lists are not as good an idea as it may sound, in the field of toys. I would like to clarify that a little more. Firstly, the rules for toys are completely harmonised in the European Union, and this means that Member States are, as a starting point, prevented from issuing national rules in this area and therefore also from introducing lists of content for chemicals in toys. As you know, the European Commission has adopted a new interpretation on the basis of the so-called EFTA judgment, which concludes that it may be possible to introduce temporary national bans under EU chemicals legislation REACH. I do not believe that this is really an option in relation to the requirements for content lists for toys, and this is because if a proposal for restriction is drawn up under REACH, it must be justified by an unacceptable risk to humans or the environment. This is not a justification for the introduction of lists of other legal substances. Secondly, toys and other products sold, which are placed on the market, must be safe, they must be legal. You should not, as parents, be the little chemist in order to be able to trade safe toys. If lists of chemicals in toys are to work, then it is essential that we, as a consumer, as parents, have a thorough knowledge of chemistry and toxicology, and that we know about the effects of chemicals. And there I can say from the good people I have in the ministry that even university-educated people can't do the effects of all drugs just like that on the spine, they also have to break up sometimes. And even if you're supposed to be an expert on chemistry, on toxicology, that's not enough. As I started by saying, we cannot see from such a declaration of content whether the substances are released, and that is what is crucial and which is dangerous in relation to chemicals. The explanatory statement of the proposal mentions the issue of Squishies, which we can all remember here from late summer, as an example, and it is a good example of the fact that a list of content had not really helped in this case, perhaps in fact the opposite, because here it was the degassing that was the problem. Analysis of the content of chemicals showed that the substances that degassed could not be found in the toy. The problematic substances that degassed from squishies, for example, exist. in the air holes in the foam, and therefore they do not show up in a content analysis. They will therefore also not appear in a list of contents, as these are substances that are formed and found in the air holes in the foam. In this case, a list of contents could have provided false security if you understood it. The fact that toys contain dangerous chemicals does not mean that toys present a risk to children and that toys do not contain problematic substances is not the same as that there is no risk. One example of how toys can contain something dangerous is that, for example, we do. accept that some toys contain batteries which in themselves can be dangerous for children and not just because you are going to swallow them. Therefore, in order to ensure that batteries are not dangerous in toys, it has rules that batteries should not be available to children. Similarly, any substances that may be dangerous to children must not be released from the toys either. As I said, the substances must be released before they are a problem, and that will not appear in a list of contents. If any drugs prove to be a problem, they must not be in the toy at all and the list of contents is not useful. We do not really have a problem, it can be said, if producers and importers comply with the law. That is how it is in many areas, and we must therefore ensure that products on the market are legal rather than declaring them. This is why the focus is on the control and mapping of chemical substances in toys. The framework for control, the mapping of chemical substances, we are fortunately agreed on in here, as it is set out in the joint chemistry effort for 2018-2021. It is a random check, which is why it will always be the responsibility of the industry to ensure that the toys on the shelves are safe and that they comply with all the rules. Neither as a parent nor as a minister will I accept that responsibility is passed on to the parents. I have been met with this idea of lists of contents from several sides of this time, but as I have tried to illustrate, I do not mean, although I understand the intentions of the proposal, and although I actually share the intention and concern that follows the proposal, that these mandatory lists of content for toys are the way forward, and that is for these three reasons: the rules for toys are completely harmonised in the European Union; the responsibility lies with producers and importers; and, above all, the responsibility should not be passed on to parents. Against this background, the government rejects the motion for a resolution. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104644	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104648	Thank you. Now I listened eagerly, because it is true, as the Minister says, that we have discussed this before. And we do, of course, because there is a great deal of concern. I believe that Politiken's recent study showed that more than half of Danish parents for young children are concerned about buying toys. You can't think of that when there have been these examples of squishies, but also with a large number of other types of toys. So even if the Minister says that it is not the parents who have to assume that responsibility, they will have that responsibility when the insecurity and uncertainty spread because we have no control over the producers. If the producers lived up to their responsibilities, we wouldn't have this problem, but they won't. One thing is the toy rules that we have in the European Union. We also believe that this is the way through which we need to change the legislation, but what I do not understand is that the Minister will not be working for a declaration of goods under the auspices of the European Union. Because is it not also true that it could promote greater knowledge among producers and importers that they were given the opportunity to know what was in their products? It is completely opaque, as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104757	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104759	I share Mrs Lea Wermelin's view that the cases we saw in the autumn have worried many parents. That is also why we in the government wanted to tighten up on this issue and clarify the responsibilities that we have, both as a producer, but also as an importer and negotiator, precisely so as not to push it on to the parents. That is why we have also made it clear that until now it has been the case that if you put something dangerous into the market, you could be held responsible for it only if it was deliberate, and continue to do so. I think we all really do not care whether we are doing this on purpose or not on purpose, so we have therefore strengthened the opportunity to come after them here by saying that, whether it is negligent or deliberate, the things we send in the trade must be managed. I think that is an important tool to address. There are some things that we would like to tighten up on in the common EU regulation, but I do not think that lists of contents are the right way to go for the reasons I have mentioned before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104907	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104911	The Consumer Council Think are some of those who recommend using this tool. They are also some of those who have their fingers in it and have helped to do some of these tests, which the Ministry of the Environment has subsequently dealt with. It's not like it's a new approach to do it this way. After all, we are doing so in relation to food and cosmetics, and we could say the same thing, in other words, that it is those who make the food and the food, or those who produce the cosmetics, who are responsible for it, so we should not worry about that as a consumer. However, we are concerned about this, and this also helps to push for greater transparency, including for those who import. So would the Minister not agree with me that we are doing so already with a number of other product categories and that this tool is not very different in this way from the way we go about it in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111104955	It is true that the tool does not differ significantly, but if the only tool you have is a hammer, then all problems look like a nail. After all, the challenges we are trying to solve here are different because we are using food, as the rapporteur says, in a different way than we are using toys. I understand that children know that most people who have them tend to shovel this toy in their mouths, but there is a difference in whether it is food, whether it is food, whether it is something we eat, or whether it is something we play with, including putting in the mouth, because the impact is different. Also from cosmetics, when we lubricate it on the face, there is a different long-term impact than there is here. So my concern is about the fact that what is dangerous is what is being put forward. It is not necessarily what is in the content. And that is where I think you risk giving a false sense of security, in addition to the fact that you're gonna have to have this big chemist's exam.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105050	Thank you. Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105054	In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for preparing himself so thoroughly and carrying out an inspection before we have to deal with this point in the House. I still do not understand how the Minister can think that the responsibility is passed on to the parents by giving them access to further information. It is clear that this is not the only tool we have to strengthen consumer safety in this area, to introduce mandatory content lists. There are many other things that need to be done. But it can never be a deterioration in safety that demands are made on producers and dealers to inform them of what is in it. I think that if the Minister is so receptive to this, how will he ensure that consumers can feel more secure, because the tools that have been put into use so far have not been enough. Is the Minister planning to introduce controls on all products entering the market? 'Cause that would be something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105202	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105203	I mean, like Mr. Knox... Øjvind Vilsholm starts by saying: I don't understand how to think... I often think that is the way each of us feels in this Chamber, and that is why we share our views. With regard to the argument that this cannot be a deterioration, I would say that I think it will cause confusion, because what we need to know as parents is: what are the risks of letting our children play with the toys in question? And there we as parents should not risk the health of our children. If there are drugs in them that are illegal, then I do not have much confidence that they will be on such a list here, because then they should not be in the trade at all. If there are drugs in it, then we can't read it out of this guide. And what I am nervous about is simply that we have false security and false security. So what I am going to do, apart from the penalty, which I mentioned before to Mrs Lea Wermelin, is to provide more information to dealers and importers, and we have already started this with an industry day in November.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105316	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105317	It is not because I am against it, so if an industry day in November is the rescue, then surely it will be fine. But I just have to say that we are talking about an extra opportunity for the consumer. And the Minister may well think that firms will not put banned substances on the list, but if it is the case that they are actually fraudulent of the lists of contents, then that is an extra aggravating circumstance. In addition, I must agree with the Minister that this is, of course, what constitutes a danger at the heart of control, but there must still be a benefit for consumers to see that substances are allowed in, but substances that they want to avoid being exposed to, whether they are emitted in large or small quantities from the toys in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105413	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105414	Now I want to say that I did not say that an industry day in November was the solution to this. I said that's where we started with this information. After all, we all share the view that we want to protect our children as best we can, because these are the most vulnerable consumers in this country. We all have an interest in that. We just disagree about the tool. I therefore believe that such a list risks providing a false security that you risk confusing, because I want to be sure as a parent that if there's something in this, I can't buy it at all, because then it's not in the trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105458	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105500	Thank you. This is an example of what I call the great chemical experiment that we have been part of the last two generations, i.e. that we have 200,000 chemicals in circulation in our society, and where we actually know only a very small proportion of them know how dangerous they are and how toxic they are. And here it is a particularly serious issue because we are talking about toys, that is, we are talking about the exposure of young children, where the body is developing and where there is a much greater sensitivity to the effects of the chemicals that can come into contact with children. That is why it is very important to me that we get something serious done, something fundamental about this situation. I can see a point in this statement that we are talking about now... not because it has to be transferred to the parents to take responsibility, but simply because it forces suppliers to relate to what drugs are in the product. But what I really want to hear from the Minister is: will the Minister be interested in looking at stronger instruments, and here I am thinking in particular of such things as penalties, enforcement? Shouldn't the fines be bigger? Because it can be said that this is a matter of financial speculation; there are some companies that make money selling toys and they have not checked the ingredients thoroughly enough. After all, it takes more fines and, on several occasions, it might be necessary to have some sort of quarantine system. And I would also like to know if Minister Yes please! ) can see an opportunity in what was mentioned about a notification system, i.e. that before placing a product on the market, it can be checked.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105651	Yes, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105652	Thank you. I believe that some of what has been the challenge for us has not been so much the penal framework, it has been the possibility of using it at all, because, as I said before, this was the condition that if you put something into the market, it should have been deliberate, you should have brought something into the market in gluttonous evil, knowing that it was harmful to our children. And so unscrupulous are most people who are not, which is why it can be said that the number of convictions is also limited. That's why we're going to change these rules now, so they say that whether you know it or you don't know it, you're responsible for this as an importer and as a producer. With regard to the model that some have spoken about, there are some who are living in the delusion that everything that is sold here in the kingdom has previously been through such some great control. But it has to be said that we would run out of labour relatively quickly, even more so than if we had to control everything before it was put on the market. That is why we need to have a, what can be said, sanction regime, as Mr. Christian Poll also points out where we say: we have to have confidence in those who bring something into the market and make it clear to them that if they do not live up to that trust, if they do not live up to that responsibility, then it has consequences. We cannot therefore control every product before it is placed on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105819	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105821	No, that's not what I'm proposing. I propose that, in this particular situation of toys for young children, where we have repeatedly seen examples that there are dangerous substances, perhaps just for a time, some kind of notification system or otherwise, we should make sure that the products are in order even more firmly. And I wonder whether the Minister does not see that we are dealing with a particular area, special products, a particular use. Then I didn't really hear the answer to the fine. Is it quite inconceivable that the fines should be significantly higher and that, perhaps even if there are repetitions, there should be very significant enforcements?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111105908	Let me start with the last one first. My answer to the question of the amount of the fine was that, in my opinion, it was not here that the challenge lay, but in the very fact that it was possible to use the instrument of sanctions at all, so the possibility of making a fine at all is there, the problem lies. And we're gonna fix that now. So we will correct the information efforts made by producers, traders, importers by making it very, very clear to them what their responsibilities are, how they can fulfil the responsibility, what control bodies they must implement to their producers. Because I also recognise that it may be difficult for traders who might ask: Well, how should I know this? Well, for crying out loud, that's the dealer's responsibility, the manufacturer's responsibility and not the parent's or the child's, because we have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110001	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110005	Thank you. The Consumer Council Think has shown in several tests that information to consumers about the cosmetics, toys, etc. that are sold cheaply online in online shops is in Danish, but it does not meet the product safety that we normally demand. Some of it is therefore filled with dangerous chemistry, and children can suffocate in toys etc., so I would like to hear: what does the government have plans to strengthen product safety in connection with online commerce, which is becoming increasingly widespread? Now we also have a toy chain that's just closed, so there'll probably be more of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110048	What Mrs Trine Torp is putting her finger on here is, in fact, at the heart of much of this problem. Because as Danes we have this balance between, that we want safe products, and are a little frugal from time to time, so sometimes we also want cheap products. I just have to say that when something sounds too good to be true, when something seems too cheap to be true, it's typical. That is why my appeal must be and I think we must communicate more strongly and more clearly: do not buy any toys or anything else from websites that you do not trust. And when should they be trusted? This must be done when they are based in the European Union, because that is where we have the opportunity to put the big claw in those who bring the goods to the marketplace, if I may say so. But I really want to make a strong appeal that, especially as parents, when you buy toys, you do not go and buy it on some cheap foreign website outside Europe, because it is a good offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110201	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110206	But now the Minister himself used this argument not to support the proposal, that we should also be careful how much responsibility we place on the consumer. In fact, I share the view that we should not place too much responsibility on consumers, but what the Minister is really saying now is that we must think very carefully. It can be quite difficult to see through these websites where they really belong and what kind of country you are dealing with, especially when it is actually in Danish. So I would like to hear: has there been any provision in the Security Agency or in the Chemical Control Agency to actually check these products?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110247	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110253	After all, it is not to pass on responsibility to the consumer. It is a finding that that responsibility lies with us as individuals. So we can't stop the Internet. There are countries, or at least a single country in the world, that do; I do not think that is a good idea. So we're going to get this input, and we're going to have to act on it. The global village is getting smaller and smaller, and the world is getting closer and closer. So the world is not such that we can go in and impose sanctions on companies based in China or other countries. That is why this appeal from my side to the fact that we may need to be clearer in the communication about it and only rely on websites and buy things from websites that we have a legitimate confidence in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110341	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110342	Thank you. Control is not working, either in Denmark or in the EU. That's why parents are worried for good reason. Then there comes a proposal here that a labelling scheme should be put in place which could certainly be made much more radical proposals; this is such a tiny proposal and it is then rejected by the Minister on the grounds that consumers are not chemistry experts etc. But will that not also help the retail trade? So, the consumer, who has a precautionary principle in his own purchase, really should not buy on the Internet, but does the consumer not need to go down to his toy store and ask the clerk what the conditions are and what it contains? Then, on the basis of its own precautionary principle, the consumer can opt out of it where there is any risk at all of it, not an absolute risk that makes it prohibited, but any risk at all of it. The tool proposed here may be precisely a tool that the retail trade can use as well. Isn't that how you see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110502	I therefore believe that if you imagine that you can buy toys that do not have any risk of anything, you will have to stick yourself in the eye. So even if you use a stone and a piece of wood, you can get really wrong with both... and I speak here from experience. You can never completely avoid a risk. My concern in relation to these lists of ingredients is that we have false security and we are making unreasonable demands on us as parents and as consumers that we can see through that if it contains this and that, it may be something that makes something. In other words, if substances are released which are dangerous, it should not be on the market at all. If it contains substances that are not allowed in the toy, it should not be on the market at all, and it is not on this list of contents. I do not know if one imagines that this should be an opportunity to say: Ha, who we got you; this exciting robot contains plutonium, and now we better not buy it. Well, I know it's a grotesque example, but if it does, it's probably not on the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110612	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110615	It was just a grotesque example, and it was also grotesque to compare this with a stone or a piece of wood. The parents' concern is greater than what the Minister seems to have fully understood. And then the minister just repeated the point that it can't be the parents' responsibility. But I was just talking about the retail trade. Just as you can go down to your butcher and just as you can go down to your paint shop and ask what's in a certain color, you can go down to your retailer, but that requires that there is labelling. It's not something that can be done with 1 day a year. This requires that retailers in the toy industry also have access to that information, which is why it is natural that they should be on the package. So, Minister, try to relate to the suggestion that this is a help to retailers in the toy industry, and therefore also to parents who do not buy on the Internet, but go down to their local toy store and ask some questions to be on the safe side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110721	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110725	Yeah, as long as it's possible. Let me first arrest the fact that my concern should be less than that of the parents. I'm sorry when I leave this room, I'm also a parent, and I have several children from 0 years to 17 years of age, and just implying that I'm not worried about this, doesn't belong here. I am worried about this, and it is not only as a parent, but certainly also as a minister. Of course, as an importer of products, we need to know what is in them, as do importers, and they have the opportunity to ask the manufacturer for these lists of contents. If they can't get them from the producer, they have to buy in somewhere else. So as an importer and a dealer, you have access to these things, and that's to help them. There we just have a different view of who this is helping. I do not think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard and I as ignorant toy buyers are the ones who need the expertise and know what is dangerous and what is not dangerous. I have a very clear expectation that the store will manage that, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard also garden. They're the ones we have to hold our ears, not the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110838	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111110846	Thank you. When you as parents buy toys for your children in Denmark, you should be able to be safe and know that it does not contain harmful chemistry. And as we have just discussed, there have just been too many examples here at home, where we have experienced the opposite of these squishies with carcinogenic substances, fidget spinners with heavy metals, mucus with chemistry that can damage fetuses or the ability to have children, plastic balls with phthalates and that, of course, is completely unacceptable. As I also mentioned in my question to the Minister, more than half of Danish parents are concerned about buying toys, and we simply have to do something about that and take it very seriously. In the Social Democratic Party, therefore, we, like the proposers, want producers to be obliged to make a full declaration of the content of toys. We already know this from cosmetics and foodstuffs, and it can help to encourage pressure on manufacturers to supply products without harmful chemistry. We ourselves have had the Minister in consultation on this earlier. What distinguishes us from the authors of the motion is that we believe that this should be done within the framework of the European Union. As Enhedslisten also writes in the proposal, the rules for toys are completely harmonised, and therefore it puts some limits on what rules we can make nationally. And as we have also just discussed, a lot of this toys also come from outside the country's borders. Therefore, it would make very good sense for us to do this here in the European Union. That is why we are also sorry that the Minister will not help us push it through. Together with other progressive EU countries, we in Denmark were able to keep the green flag high and ensure much better consumer protection, as we have in other areas. So we think that the Minister is failing his responsibility by not joining in this struggle for producers to be obliged to tell us about the content of their products. As it is now, it is quite opaque and a study has also been carried out which is part of the background to the proposal today and which shows that many of the importers and sellers of toys that exist are calling for more information. In addition, as some of you mentioned in the debate with the Minister, we can see that there is an increase in net trade. More than one in three crowns used in e-commerce goes to a foreign web store. So it is very necessary that we also deal with that area. And we can see that many Danish consumers are not aware that the Danish rules do not apply here. So we have to do more, and the Minister should take up the fight. More severe penalties in this area we are in favour of, but it does not only do it; more control also needs to be done. The safety net is not finely masked enough as it is today. Coop has therefore decided to take the lead in this area; I think we can praise that here in the Parliamentary Assembly. We have decided to take the lead in the way of voluntary declarations on toys with chemistry, and I look forward to following that. But it cannot stand alone; we must also take political responsibility. Therefore, together with the proposers, we would like to look at how we in Denmark can promote this within the framework of the European Union, so that we can actively work together to get product declarations on toys. Finally, I have also promised to welcome the radical rapporteur who agrees with us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111227	Thank you. Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111242	Thank you for your support. I'm glad we're so in agreement. There is, however, a small dispute. In terms of how and how quickly we can get it in place, I am aware that the rapporteur says that we should do so within the framework of the European Union. Maybe it'll take a while. So what do we do until we can get it through in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111259	It is not surprising that we do not quite agree with the Enhedslisten in relation to the European Union, and we will probably not do so for the time being either. But I do not think it should prevent us from working together on this agenda, which is so important. And I also share the concern that it may take some time in the European Union. We have also seen that with other legislation. It is all the more important, however, that we have a minister who is actively involved in this matter. It is clear that if we are to make the European Union move forward, it will be countries like Denmark and other countries that are progressive, like us, that have to take the lead, otherwise I do not think that will happen. And that is also why I am so sorry that we are hearing a minister today who is not going to go further along that path. So I think it is important that we have a government that is pushing for it in the European Union. At the same time, I also believe that some of what could be done about online commerce, for example, is that we could help consumers with information about when they are on a website that is foreign, that is, non-resident in the European Union. For as it is today, the websites will appear in Danish, and therefore it can be extremely difficult as a consumer to orient themselves in it. And then we would also like to have more control... these are some examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111402	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111408	I fully agree with the rapporteur that it would be nice if we could already get it started and have a minister who would support it here and go ahead with it in the European Union. So I just want to say that I hope we can agree to work for this and maybe we can find another way for Denmark to take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111437	Well, I think it would be a good idea to try to use the committee work to drill out some of these things. It may also be that we can find some like-minded countries in Europe where parliamentarians, like us, are concerned and want the European Union to move forward. It could also be a way to go, i.e. to examine whether there are other countries that we can look at and that are doing something that we are not already doing in Denmark. However, I believe that we are one of the countries in Europe that is at the forefront of chemistry, because we have just had this tradition of pushing for more regulation, of achieving greater transparency for consumers. And we would very much like to be involved in that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111506	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111510	Thank you. Now the Minister has mentioned that we have taken this good step and recognised that it should not just be deliberate, but that it is in fact always the responsibility of the importer or supplier to know what it is and to ensure that the product is not toxic. However, the next thing in my view is to look at whether the consequences are great enough, if you behave wrongly, and I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Social Democrats could also be interested in looking at the criminal framework, at various forms of enforcement and seeing whether we could also become wiser in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111550	We would like to take part in this. As I have said, I think we should try to use this work of the committee to say that we have an agenda here, which we at least agree with a number of parties in the Folketing, namely that full declaration of goods must be made that it is too opaque, that control is too poor and that nothing really happens if we break the rules. So I think it would be obvious to try to pursue that track as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111614	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111618	Thank you. After all, there are people who say that as the Social Democracy has gone right, the Enhedslisten is becoming more and more like the Social Democracy, and it is true that we have taken over one of the old slogans of the Social Democracy, namely: Denmark as a pioneer country. That is the point, then, that if you want something, even internationally, you have to take the lead and not just wait for something to be agreed in 15, 20 or 25 years' time. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can think of other examples where Denmark, contrary to EU legislation, has taken the lead and where the European Union has moved, precisely because there were some countries that took the lead and did not just accept and wait for things to change down in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111659	It is simply so wonderful when Enhedslisten agrees with us in the Social Democracy. We rejoice about that every time. We would very much like Denmark to continue to be a green forerunner, so we can easily agree on that in this Chamber today, and it is true that we in Denmark have also been involved in pressure in the European Union, both where there has already been a process, but also with regard to new substances. One of the things that Enhedslisten also mentions, where I think it is the rapporteur himself that has come to mind, is the question of bisphenol A, and that was also one of the things that we in the Socialist Group were the banner leader of. So it is not because there are no precedents, but what we are emphasising here is that there is total harmonisation of the rules, and that is where we only differ from the Enhedslisten in relation to the way we go to the EU substance, and the confidence we also have in the EU system, where we therefore believe that we should have a minister on the Danish side who is fighting for it here in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111754	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111759	I just want to say that it sounds to me as if the Social Democrats have the slogan: the European Union as a pioneer country, and not Denmark as a pioneer country. It would be a good thing if the European Union were, but the European Union is not, and even if it is completely harmonised, as it has been in other areas too. So the whole area of chemistry is totally harmonised, it is a very good idea, because the prerequisite for doing something about it is that the Commission brings an action against Denmark, and that is an opportunity to bring others along. If you do not want to use this opportunity, you are not pressing enough, and that is why I am wondering if the Social Democrats will not help put the ultimate pressure to get this matter presented, by adopting something in Denmark and then in this way pushing for it to happen in the rest of the EU and the world for that matter too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111854	But this is where we disagree on the tool, that is how we should go about it, but we want Denmark to be the pioneer country in this area. We want Denmark to push. We want Denmark to join the REACH countries with which we already cooperate in the field of chemistry in order to have more progressive legislation in the European Union. We would also very much like the Minister to use the new opportunity that lies in the fact that there has been a new interpretation in relation to the chemistry area, in other words, where, on the Danish side, it may in fact be possible to avoid some of these chemicals taking a long time in the European Union in relation to the regulation of substances, but that does not change the fact that we have a little disagreement about the way forward from here in relation to getting it through here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111935	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111111939	Thank you for that and thank you for your contribution. I have a tiny bit of doubt whether the Social Democratic Party really means this by saying that a full declaration and a full list of content on these products will actually benefit parents who have to buy toys in the shops for their children. Is it not really going to create more confusion for parents who are going through the chemist's exam every time they go out to buy legos or model wax for their children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112017	I am sorry, then, that the rapporteur has doubts about this, because it should be quite clear, after we have been on the platform here today, that we support the introduction of a labelling of toys. There should be no doubt about that. And the reason why we are doing this is, in fact, that we believe that it gives consumers greater security, but that is also what I mentioned in my introductory speech because those who sell toys and those who import toys to Denmark also want more information. Just as we have seen it for cosmetics and with the Think Chemistry App, it can help to promote greater transparency in this whole area. Right now, I believe that the vast majority of parents, including myself, find that today it is absolutely impossible to see through as a consumer what is in toys.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112103	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112107	Thank you. I have to say that I certainly disagree with the Social Democrats on how best to confuse parents who have to buy toys. But perhaps we can do that when I have the opportunity to give my rapporteur's speech. But it must also be said that the manufacturers must actually present this safety assessment in which they state the content of the toy. And if you cannot make a full declaration of content, perhaps you can also question whether it will then be possible to make it in another way. So I actually believe that we and the importers have the opportunity to see whether the products contain something that poses a risk. Does the Social Democratic Party not agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112157	While the rapporteur was speaking, I just found the representation of a study looking at the toys entering Europe. And it says that one in five toys contains endocrine disruptors. So what we just have to say from the platform today is that we may disagree on the way forward that the system that exists today does not work. After all, there are far too many products that we can see in this way do not comply with the legislation that exists today. That is also why we say that what we are doing today is not enough. We need to have more control, but we also need to push outside those who produce toys.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112232	Thank you. Then there are no more questions about this rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112241	Thank you. In this area, the Danish People's Party fully agrees with the government, namely that a list of content for toys will not give greater certainty that you will not buy anything that may contain something problematic. We are also deeply concerned in the Danish People's Party that as a parent or grandmother, as I am, you can stand in a toy store and buy something that you think is safe, and it is not necessarily. But we do not think that a list of content will provide greater certainty; on the contrary, it may give us more false security. It cannot be right for parents or grandparents to have a knowledge of what drugs are in it. It is possible that you can use all kinds of applications, or whatever I know, which can tell you that there is something in it, but it must be the case that as a consumer in Denmark you have confidence that when you go into a store, the goods that are on the shelves are safe and in order. And if they are not, they do, as the Minister did in the case of Squishies, namely to remove things immediately. I also believe there that it is quite clear that a list of contents for the Squishies had not helped the consumer at all, because it is not the content that is the problem, but what can be said about the air vents, and that is something quite different. I think it is an important discussion that Mrs Trine Torp is taking up on websites and online commerce. Perhaps we could do something more here so that we inform consumers that we are on a page where we cannot necessarily be sure that the rules will be complied with. We know that there are a lot of people using online commerce. We are in Denmark as consumers also very good at finding things that are cheap. And as has been said before, it is typically the case that when something is too cheap, it is probably also too good to be true • you usually get no more than what you give for the goods. That is also our clear impression, and I have no doubt that if you make a list of content and there are producers who produce something that contains illegal drugs, it will not be listed on the list of contents. After all, I'm not that naive. So basically we cannot support the proposal, but I would also like to say that it is a concern and, as the Minister said: the moment you walk from the Chamber, you are not just a politician, you are also a grandmother or a parent or you have something to do with young children. And this is something we need to take seriously. Actually, I think so. However, a list of content does not seem to me to be the way forward, so we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112541	Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112546	I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also shares the concern, and we can also see that the vast majority of parents in Denmark are concerned. Therefore, I would like to ask about this about false security, because we have seen so many cases in Denmark with harmful chemistry in toys where, as a Danish consumer, you have walked into an ordinary toy store and bought it not something with a Chinese website, something from abroad, but a Danish store where you walk in the door and think: Here it must be okay. And then you've found out that it wasn't. I'm the mother of someone who had squishies that we had to throw out when we found out they were married. Is there not already a false sense of security in relation to the toys you can buy, because we have seen so many examples that Danish legislation is not being complied with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112642	Yes, you can say so far, but then there is a false security in relation to all product types, you might say. And, of course, this has to do with the fact that the type of control we have is a random check, and that is both in toys and in food and in very many commodity groups. This is a sample check, where, of course, we find in that sample something that is then removed. So, in a way, I can agree with Mrs Lea Wermelin that we already have some sort of false security, because we really expect the authorities to have a complete understanding of what is on the shelves, and that is not the case. But it may also be a bit our fault, because we often pride ourselves on the fact that we are very good at controlling, and it might well be that we should be good at informing ourselves that we cannot therefore be sure that everything is in order. You can also sometimes buy some foods that are not okay; you can also sometimes buy some clothes that have some chemicals in which it should not have etc. etc. Now this area is particularly sensitive because it's about children, and that's what hurts the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112752	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112756	However, I think that what makes it possible not just to say that there are other areas where there may be flickers, is the extent to which we can see in the study that I also referred to up in the platform, where we can see that one in five toys in Europe, that is, according to this European study, contains endocrine disruptors. It's a very large scale. It's not just a simple example you can pull out. That is why I would like to comment on the comparison made by the rapporteur on food, because that is what we are declaring. And it's not the same thing as that there can't be anything in food that shouldn't be there, but it's a pressure on the producers where they say: Hey, hey, now be aware of what's in these products, and you're answerable for what you've written on that list. Then the rapporteur cannot try to make us wiser: what is the difference in the rapporteur's view between food and cosmetics, where we have to declare, and then toys which are specifically about children who are so vulnerable?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111112857	At first sight, my first reaction to this food declaration is that, as I myself am allergic to some things, I am really happy about it when there are some declarations. However, I would say that if one in the European Union knows that one in five toys contains endocrine disruptors, I also suppose that something is being done about it. It is not certain that this is the case, and here perhaps I do not have as much confidence in the EU system as Mrs Lea Wermelin has and therefore, of course, we should also have a control in Denmark, as we do. So in addition to having REACH in the European Union and having some control systems down there, we also have our own control system in Denmark, and I am very pleased to say so. But I would also like to say that, as far as I am concerned, this is a very good spot check. This is a way to deal with things, because we just can't control every single product entering Denmark, we can't. And that's why this is one way to do it. For me, a list of contents would be neither better nor worse. I just don't think we can use it for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113004	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113010	Thank you. I share the concern. I am very pleased that the rapporteur is also very concerned about this situation of dangerous substances in toys. This is something extraordinary. We can have a debate that we have in the Chamber today on declaring, where there is such a broad consensus that we could do a little bit of work on declaring, but other things also need to be done. And I would like to know whether the rapporteur is here to take a look, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of tobacco products has not been accepted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113108	I wouldn't mind at all looking at all things, I just want to say that. In the Danish People's Party, we are not at all afraid to impose higher penalties, higher fines or anything, not when people violate the rules that exist. In the case of repetition, I also believe that there must of course be a severe penalty for this, so I have no difficulty at all in looking at it. What is important is to say that it is the producers and importers who are responsible, and that when you are in the retail trade as a consumer, you have to have confidence that the sample checks also catch most of the time and I have to say most of the things. It's kind of like border controls that we don't catch everything either, but we catch a lot, which I am also very happy about. But of course we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113159	I'm glad to hear that. This is what we have here with a sample control system. This means that we will not be able to control everything, but you can then compensate for that by the fact that the penalties are higher, because then there is a greater spanking when you are caught not having control of what substances are in your product. So thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113221	I would also just like to say, as a small comment, that if the producer is out in China, I do not quite know how to prosecute him. For it could be a producer located in the PRC. But of course we are willing to look at it. We could, of course, ban imports from the producer concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113232	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113239	Thank you. I am pleased, as Mrs Lea Wermelin said, that the rapporteur is concerned. There are so many of us. I do not quite understand, then, when the rapporteur finds pleasure in the tables of contents on food. I myself do so that the rapporteur could not also see a joy in lists of contents on toys. Because we are not just talking about banned substances in toys. We are also talking about permitted substances, just as it is in cosmetics. You have to put things in there that somebody can be allergic to. Similarly, there are also substances in toys to which children react differently, and the particularly cautious parent could have an interest in avoiding some substances that are legal, but which you either suspect or have a feeling of not being good for your child.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113341	I would say that if you are a particularly cautious parent, we are close to making all the toys yourself. I guess I haven't really said too much or too little or you should at least consider what you are buying in a lot of areas, for example. I would also like to refer to his furniture. And maybe that's where the difference is. I find it very difficult to see if I go down to a toy store and want to buy a plastic toy bucket with a rake and a shovel and a sieve for my grandchildren, what it would benefit me, that it is written in it, that it is made of some kind of plastic, and that there are some plastic softeners in it that have some four-letter combination that I don't know about. I find that very difficult to see what I can use for as a consumer. In fact, we often talk about plastic plasticizers and how dangerous they are, but what is important to me when I go down and buy that toy bucket is that I am not nervous that my grandchildren use it. I guess that's what I think is right as a grandmother, and that's where I expect the authorities to have done so many random checks that I can buy a toy bucket that I can give my grandchildren.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113457	It is also the ideal situation that you can be sure that everything you buy is okay. But that is not where we are, and that is probably not where we are coming from. If the rapporteur were told by the parents of his grandchildren that they had found out that there were some drugs that the rapporteur's grandson could not tolerate, would it not be helpful to see whether they were in the plastic pan or what the rapporteur is going to buy for his grandson?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113533	Now, unfortunately, I am one of those people who very rarely look at declarations of goods.I only do so when I am a little in doubt about my own allergy. So I think I just wanted to tell my daughter that she had to write down what it was I had to buy. That's what we are, too. So I would say that in my optics there will never be an ideal situation in the world. We do not live in a perfect world, we have a risk, every day we get up and we are exposed to everything. Of course, we must do something to ensure that our children are exposed to as little as possible, and that is what we are trying to do. I just don't think that a declaration of goods is a way to prevent our children from being exposed to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113624	The next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113629	Thank you. The rapporteur just mentioned the issue of the Internet trade, which both of us seem to be concerned about. Could we imagine that some of these websites could be blocked with dangerous and illegal products, just as we have good experience of copying goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113653	Without being a data expert or knowing a great deal about legislation in this area, I think that would be an excellent idea. We know that there are pages on which there are some things that, if they came into Denmark, would not be allowed to be sold at all. I think it would be very good if we could state very clearly on websites in some way that this is a website where the products come from or from there, or what I know, without knowing the rules, and if you can make a block for something where what is being sold is obviously illegal, then for my sake I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113737	Are there any further questions? There isn't. We thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111113754	Thank you. It is very important that you as a consumer and buyer of toys can have confidence that the toys you take from the shelves are okay, that you can buy it safely, take it home, give it away to your children, etc. and use it. We are exposed to chemistry on a daily basis in many contexts: food, clothing, electronics and toys, which are what we are talking about today. Chemistry has a lot of advantages when you look at it from the side that is indispensable in a modern society, but when we use the many properties of chemistry, we also have to be sure that it is not harmful. The resolution we are debating here today proposes that mandatory lists of content for chemistry in toys should be introduced, and the argument should be that it would then make it easier for Danish consumers to opt out of toys that should contain dangerous chemistry. However, lists of contents are not the way to improve consumer safety, and we have already heard this from the debate that has taken place on the proposal so far. First of all, lists of contents will only say something about the content of toys themselves, but nothing about how much is emitted from them, which is crucial in terms of consumer safety. Secondly, for the vast majority of consumers, with no in-depth knowledge of it, it will be difficult to navigate these lists of the many different substances and their possible harmfulness. Thus, lists of contents will be more a source of confusion than of information, and it will also shift responsibility and place it in a completely wrong place, namely with consumers, and that is not the way we should go. We must be able to buy toys completely without concern for the safety of children, and it is up to the authorities to ensure that manufacturers and importers comply with the legislation so that toys with harmful chemistry are not put on shelves at all. Therefore, the focus should be on the control and mapping of chemical substances, because this is the best way to ensure consumer safety. The Left is therefore voting against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114004	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114010	Now the rapporteur again mentions that it would be to shift the responsibility for examining the dangers of toys to consumers if they were to make lists of contents. The Minister also mentioned this. Does the rapporteur also feel responsible for the food that the rapporteur buys? There are also lists of contents on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114038	Generally speaking, we in Denmark have a very high level of consumer safety, a very high standard. Now the questioner mentions the food sector: there we are also among the countries that have the highest level of food safety, the highest level of food control, the highest level of food quality, so I also feel very safe in the food sector. In fact, I would almost turn it around and say to our consumers: if you want to eat safe, you actually have to buy Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114109	In other words, that alone is not enough, because there are substances in some foods that some people cannot tolerate. Mrs Pia Adelsteen mentioned this earlier that she herself knew about it. Similarly, in toys there are also some substances that are allowed but that some cannot tolerate. Could we not give consumers an extra service by letting them know what was actually in it, while still maintaining the control that exists today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114147	Well, now the questioner himself is holding onto the food area, and we can say that if there are some who have particular allergic challenges and other things, then there is even more reason to look for the Danish food in the shops. So there I can repeat a clear and firm position: if you want to eat safely, you have to look very much for the Danish food in the shops. If you look at another area we are talking about now, if you follow the Enhedslisten's proposals here, then I can see that Enhedslisten writes in the first lines that you should introduce requirements for mandatory content lists. That is to say, when you were looking at different toy stitches, you had to start looking at all sorts of lists. We know that chemicals have many strange names and names, so I think that would increase confusion rather than increase safety. No, we must concentrate our energies on saying clearly that those who produce the toys and put them on the shelves must ensure that this is all right, otherwise it should not be on the shelves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114249	The next question is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114256	So right now the confusion is total, so I simply find it difficult to see the argument of both the rapporteur and the Minister that it can contribute to further confusion. Right now, there is no help for Danish consumers. Now all you have to do is rely on the authorities to sort it out, and they haven't, we can see that, and that's what's really weird. However, when you look at the study which is also the basis of the resolution here today and which has been carried out in relation to importers and sellers of toys in Denmark, there are 38%. of those who say that they have little or no knowledge of toy rules, and the whole is 63 percent. has no specific knowledge of chemistry and toys. So what is the rapporteur's response to those importers and sellers who are asking for more information? That is not solved with more control. It will not, in fact, help those who import to have enough control over it. What is the rapporteur's response to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114402	We must say loudly, clearly and clearly that the toys on the shelves must be in order. It must not be dangerous, because then it should not be on the shelves, then it should be gone. Then it is true that there may be some confusion in it. That is all the more reason to say clearly and clearly that the toys on the shelves must be in order. It must not be harmful, because then it must go away and the responsibility lies with the producers and those who sell it. That's what we need to communicate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114430	But the problem is that importers and sellers say that they cannot really get that knowledge. There is no transparency. Now we have a large retail chain, Coop, which has chosen to go down the road of volunteering and say that they would be the good example and try to make these toy content lists. Let us now say that it is going to be a great success and that, in such a way, they can make these lists of content work and that it will also help to promote greater transparency and greater consumer safety, which is something that the rapporteur would like to see rejected, if we see that there are chains that actually make this work, so that it increases consumer safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114510	I am just saying clearly that those who negotiate the toys, along with those who have produced them or those from whom they have bought them, must ensure that the toys they have on their shelves are in order. It must not be harmful, because then it must go away.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114523	Next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114526	I just need to be absolutely clear about what the Left's position really is. One is that this motion for a resolution will not be supported, but am I to understand the fact that the Left will in fact not work at all for a greater degree of transparency and information for consumers? When it comes to food, cosmetics and so on, people are not simply informed to inform them that there are dangerous substances in them, because then they would not be on the shelves, but would actually give consumers a real choice. It may be that these drugs are approved, but it is not certain that you want to take them or give them to your children. So is the position of the Left that when it comes to toys for children, this type of information is not important for citizens, and will the Left not therefore work to ensure that EU declarations of goods are implemented in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114629	In general, good consumer information is important and good, and it is as it should be, and it must be in the interests of every producer to tell us what it is that is being produced. In this context, we are just talking about the fact that as a consumer and as a buyer of toys you can be safe and secure by buying the toys that are on the shelves. I can see that only Enhedslisten is behind the proposal and they write in the first line that mandatory content lists for toys must be introduced. Then I can imagine the situation, when you go to the toy shops, that you have to look through all sorts of catalogues and lists, and what do I know before you can even get an impression of whether things are okay. That way, you get the focus in a completely wrong place. It has to be the case that when you stand and look at the shelves with toys, you have to know that everything on the shelves is okay, that it is not harmful, and that is the responsibility of the producers. In general, of course, good quality consumer information is quite good, and it can only be in the interests of the producers themselves to provide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114730	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114734	However, does the rapporteur also have the view in relation to food that it is sufficient for consumers to be able to enter a supermarket and to be guaranteed that none of the goods on the shelves are dangerous and harmful? Does it mean that, in the case of food products which, for one reason or another, you want to opt out, it does not matter whether or not consumers receive that information?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114806	Whether it is food or toys, the products on the shelves must be in order. Then there is just the thing about food that some consumers may want to buy something that may be more low-fat or something else, and then they should be able to see what they are eating or taking into the shopping basket. So it is clear that, as a Leftman, I am behind a generally very high level of food safety, food control and also consumer information. What we are discussing in connection with this proposal from the Enhedslisten is something else, namely to introduce requirements for mandatory content lists. What I am just pointing out as rapporteur on the Left is that, in my view, it creates more confusion for consumers than it creates security, and I would like to have the very highest level of safety for consumers when buying toys, and there it should be so simple that all the toys on the shelves should be in order, it should not be harmful, and if it is, it should just not be on the shelves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114911	That was the last question. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to Mr. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111114923	Thank you for the floor. This gives rise to a great deal of debate, and it is really nice. That is why we have the opportunity to table these motions for resolutions. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. It is of course important for parents to be able to buy toys for their children safely without fearing that they contain harmful substances. Fortunately, they can do so if they buy their toys in Denmark or elsewhere in the EU. They can, because the rules on chemistry in toys are totally harmonised within the European Union. This also means that Denmark, as a Member State, cannot make special regulation in this area. We can then say that for this reason we can reject the motion for a resolution because it is really not possible for us here in Parliament to do anything about it, but there are other reasons for voting against the motion for a resolution. Personally, I do not really think that we have mentioned this a little earlier in my question to Mrs Lea Wermelin that as a parent you will be more comfortable in presenting a detailed list of ingredients that you, as a parent, have no earthly chance of understanding or finding neither head nor tail on, unless you, of course, as Mr. Christian Poll is a chemical engineer. How could an ordinary Dane even know whether chemical substances with hard cryptic names in the purchased model wax or other are harmful to health, or whether the concentration of 0.007 percent poses a risk? And why is this chemical substance even in the product and is it even released from the specific toy? My opinion is that it only confuses more than it is and clearly gives more cause for concern, and it is, in any case, probably the very opposite that has been the purpose of the resolution. I believe that we should be much more concerned about the huge quantities of cheap clothing and electronics and, indeed, toys that the Danes are buying directly on non-European websites and without any control whatsoever of the content of the products in question. That is what we should primarily be dealing with, and that is also what we have legislation and regulations in the European Union for. The rules we have within the European Union are so good enough that parents in Denmark with a calm stomach and mind can buy toys in Denmark, and therefore the Liberal Alliance does not support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115255	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115303	What I really want to ask you is that, as the rapporteur says, as parents in Denmark can safely buy toys. We all want this to be the case, but when we have seen all these examples of toys that are harmful to children, and we see the concern of Danish parents, over half of whom think there is uncertainty, does not the rapporteur share the concerns of the parents, and does the rapporteur not also see that there are gaps in the safety net which should make it completely safe and that we therefore also need to find political answers to what we need to do so that these products do not end up on shelves, as we have seen several examples of them doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115401	I fully understand the insecurity among parents, but holes in the safety net do not actually seem to me to be involved. In fact, I think it is a good thing that we have regulatory supervision that is able to find these products where there are too high concentrations of different substances. It does not necessarily have to be illegal substances; it may also be that the concentration of these substances released from this toy is what is crucial for withdrawing the products. So I do not think that there are any gaps in the safety net. In fact, I think it shows that we have a very finely masked safety net; that we have authorities in Denmark that take care of this. And perhaps we should, in fact, concentrate even more on this, particularly from the political point of view, so that we do not put up any of these scare pictures, which some of my fellow Members in the Assembly sometimes like to do in one area or another, in which they try to scare people to implement some of the policy they are really interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115511	But I just think that the challenge with a lot of tests that have been done is that this harmful chemistry has been found. Therefore, we cannot rule out that if we did more tests, we would find even more, and that is what the challenge is. Let us take a parallel that is quite close to toys, namely cosmetics. As a consumer, you are not an expert on the ingredients that are in cosmetics either, but we have just seen that there has been a movement here in terms of the content of cosmetics, so that as a consumer you have a choice and can push for a greener cosmetics, if I may say so. The Consumers' Council is also recommending this proposal. And when there is pressure from those who are going to be the consumer watchdog and they say they want it here, why is it that you do not listen to it instead of judging what will help Danish parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115605	Now, of course, I do not want to interfere at all with what colour cosmetic products the questioner wants to use. Funny aside, having said that, I actually think there is a certain difference here when we talk cosmetics and toys. Cosmetics is, of course, something that is applied directly to the skin and so on, and that is why there must of course be some other and stricter rules for it, whereas the risk in toys lies in what steams off, if I may say so, from the specific toy. And that will not necessarily be what will appear on a list of content in terms of concentrations etc., so I think there is a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115647	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115652	Actually, the difference isn't that big. I must remind the rapporteur that toys are also something that quite young children have, and that is to say that this is something they take in their mouths. By the way, toys are also the sort of thing that the slightly older children sleep with at night. In other words, it is something that is also in close contact with the skin, and indeed also, I am about to say, consumed to a greater or lesser extent, so there are many very close parallels to both food and cosmetics when we talk about toys. Then I would also like to tell the rapporteur that those who are allergic to something, that those who have some substance they want to avoid, know that substance, so whether there is a list of 20 different substances with strange names, you can learn to recognize the individual name. This is not an obstacle when you buy food, so would the rapporteur explain to me how it is an obstacle when you buy toys?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115800	After all, there are also some considerably more strict rules for toys that are targeted at young children. So that's what we've done about it. In relation to allergies, there are also some very specific rules, and I do not know whether they are called allergy lists or a large number of designated substances, which are the most common allergic agents, and, as far as I know, a great deal of effort is also being made by the Danish side to extend the lists of these very specific substances. So I actually think those parts are pretty well covered. If you just buy your toys in a shop that the questioner asked about, there are these safety assessments, and it is of course the importer's responsibility to have these safety assessments and to know what substances are on the list of contents there. Then you are allergic and have some very specific problems, you have the opportunity to ask about it in the store.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115916	So when it comes to toys, consumers are forced to find a salesman in the store who can explain about the content. I'm thinking that's where you'll be lucky. But why is it that this is not enough in the area of food and cosmetics?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111115938	As I mentioned earlier on a previous issue, I believe that there is a pretty big difference between toys and cosmetics slashing food. After all, food is something we actually consume, and cosmetics are something we put on the skin to a very large extent, and that is why there are strict rules for it, and I think that is quite natural. When we talk about toys, plastic products, wood, metal, etc., it is another chemistry that applies. It is a kind of evaporation from these specific products that is crucial to the health risk in it, and therefore there is a big difference and therefore there is also a difference in the regulatory framework. After all, this is reflected in the EU rules that are in this area, which I believe to be the one that protects consumers far, far, far best in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120035	Next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120038	I would like to start by saying that I share the rapporteur's view that the fight against dangerous chemistry is not resolved by making declarations of goods. Nevertheless, I would like to challenge the argument used by the rapporteur in relation to declarations of goods, in other words the fact that citizens do not need to have such a long list. So, when has it become a liberal view that it is the state that has to decide what citizens benefit from knowing and needing to hear?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120117	Consumer information is always good, but too much of everything can be harmful. But I do believe that in one thing, it is precisely liberal democracy, like what we live in, that it is the responsibility of the state and the authorities that what the citizens and consumers can pull off the shelves of the shops is of a nature, so that you can safely take it home to your children and that your children can play with it, and that in a liberal society like the Danish one you can then have that security. I believe that it is quite natural for the state, and I am of the clear conviction that if we enter a paradigm, where every time you have to take a product off the shelf in the supermarket, whether it is toys or food or cosmetics, you are forced to read through a declaration of goods or a list of content, we may not move directly responsibility, but it will certainly create a greater uncertainty about the division of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120229	I fully agree that it is the task of the state to ensure that we are not exposed to dangerous things. But that is not really what this is all about. It's about the right to be able to choose things on and off based on information. And I find it difficult to understand the argument, because no one has to. So it is not the case that you get tested in it when you go up and pay. It is, of course, an opportunity for people to read what is in that product. How can we, as a Liberal, disagree that people should have those opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120306	I do not, however, disagree with the fact that information to consumers is good either. However, as I said before, too much information can also cause us to enter a paradigm where there is uncertainty about who is actually responsible for the fact that what is on the shelf is safe and safe for the individual consumer, whether you have one or the other type of allergy or not. And that is the balance that I clearly believe is best achieved by creating pan-European rules so that consumers throughout Europe can be sure that what you buy, whether toys or other, is absolutely safe and secure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120348	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120356	Thanks to Enhedslisten for this exciting suggestion. In my ideal world we did not need any declarations at all, because there we would be able to rely firmly on the fact that there is nothing that affects us as human beings, nor nature, in any product we are dealing with. Unfortunately, however, we are somewhere else in the real world. In the real world, we are engaged in a huge chemical experiment which has been running for two generations now. We have 200,000 chemicals in circulation, we know very few of them fairly well, a little more we know half well, and very many of them we know very little about. Therefore, it is necessary to have different strategies on how to gain insight into what our products contain and how to avoid those substances that are dangerous to some degree. The toy area is something very special because there we have to do with the influence of children, and children are people in physiological development, that is, they are more sensitive to the chemicals they may be affected by. If we then have a situation where we have repeated findings of problematic dangerous substances in toys, then I think we are in a very special situation. And there this proposal has a role to play, but it also has a backside. The reverse is that the more you declare, the more we as consumers can easily feel that it is our own responsibility to buy something that does not say that it is toxic. As I said, I am sorry about this trend. It should be the case that we can trust that the products we can buy are in order. The advantage of this proposal is that the focus it puts on companies that are going to market these products forces them to have a handle on what is in their products, and that is why I am kind of a little on this proposal. I'm not dismissive of it. In relation to the toy situation, much, much more needs to be done. We need to look at enforcement. We need to look at the penalty. I think we need to look at bigger fines because apparently companies are not spending enough resources to find out what is in their products. It is a matter of time and money, and when you are going to sell 100,000 squishes, it is perhaps reasonable to look at them in depth, even if it costs some money. So I think that we need to look much more closely at the hard measures. It could also be that there is some sort of reporting obligation in relation to toy products for a period of time and that we might have to look at the fact that, when there are repeated overruns by a company, there are very high fines or with a sort of quarantine regime from acting on the market and such things. This shows, I think, that this is a rather serious matter. So the alternative is certainly not objectionable to this proposal. We would very much like to enter into constructive dialogue and cooperation to make a good report. However, we believe that this is a rather difficult proposal because it has both advantages and disadvantages which can be difficult to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120736	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120739	Thank you for the predominantly positive approach to the proposal. I'm getting a little curious about the downsides. I understand that if we were living in an ideal world, we would not need lists of contents on anything, because then nothing was dangerous. I was just saying that even nature is sometimes a little dangerous, because there may be things that we cannot tolerate. So I do not see the obstacle in it, because consumers have access to a knowledge that they can choose to look at or not. It's like shopping, because I don't even look at the contents of the food every time I shop. So I do not quite see the negative consequences of such a proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120838	It is about the fact that it will be a rather hasty proposal to implement, and that is one of the reasons why this area is completely harmonised in the European Union, and when you compare it with the effect of having it implemented, I become a little reluctant. I wonder if we could use our strength better, and that is why, when the Minister was in the Chair, I asked whether more ambitious action could be taken in this area. But, as I said, we are not dismissive; we just do not think it is the first and most important thing we would do in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120912	No, and there's so much. Now we have this thing that we can do, so I think we'll probably work on it. I also hope that the rapporteur can be convinced that it would be a good idea to challenge the European Union a little on this point. As we mentioned earlier in the debate, some countries are taking the lead, and the rest of the European Union can actually follow suit. So could the rapporteur be so kind as to be in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111120957	That is exactly what I mean by wanting to be positive about the cooperation on a report on this matter which can push something forward, and that is what we need to find out in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121012	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121017	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten for making the proposal. I think it has been a very interesting debate we have had, and we have in fact also come much wider around this issue than just what the resolution addresses. Perhaps it is also quite telling where we stand in relation to the resolution, namely that this is quite broad and that we would actually like to make an effective effort in relation to this issue. SF agrees that manufacturers should be required to declare the chemical content of the product and that toys are in fact an obvious place to start or continue, as could be said in the actual case of cosmetics. The Minister should therefore, in our opinion, contact the Commission and ministerial colleagues in other countries with a view to ensuring that such a proposal is supported in several countries and leading to the submission of a formal proposal by the Commission for the adoption of the Member States. In our view, it is of little use to impose this requirement on importers or retailers in Denmark, and I do not think that is what Enhedslisten is proposing. On the other hand, I think that the Enhedslisten proposal lacks the strategic dimension, namely how we actually promote regulatory changes in the European Union. This could happen by the fact that there is in fact a majority of the countries that could adopt it. We are happy to contribute to a report, and in this context we think it would be appropriate to include measures which could now improve protection against dangerous chemistry in toys. We will therefore also, during the work of the committee, ask questions about an actual company-based control effort, in the hope that the Folketing can agree on a targeted effort towards the rotten part of the industry. The product effort is quite fine, and the good part of the industry reacts quickly when there is something bad, and I think we should acknowledge that too. As has been mentioned before, there are, in fact, also retail chains that take the lead, and for example, retail chains. As COOP makes these declarations. But we have to be after those who don't care, that's the point. I also believe that we need to increase the control of products sent to Danish consumers from foreign online shops, and this involves a somewhat larger job than this proposal addresses, I am well aware of that, but I think it is at least as important when you consider how people's shopping habits are developing at the moment. So I would say that effective action against dangerous chemistry in toys contains far more elements than just labelling and labelling. This requires a government that will work actively in the European Union vis-à-vis the Member States, and this requires targeted action against the broken vessels, as there are, and then it requires action on network sales. That is why we do not support the proposal as it stands, but we would very much like to be involved in a report where we come around a little bit of all the necessary measures, as we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121337	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121348	Thank you so much. Toys shall not contain and release chemical substances in such quantities as to be harmful to children playing with toys. That is already the case today. When the Enhedslisten is now tabling a motion for a resolution calling for a mandatory list of content for toys, it may at first sight look like a good proposal to ensure that our children do not get hurt when playing with their toys. However, on reflection, the proposal is probably not something that will in any way ensure that children do not get hurt when playing with their toys. As has been said several times from up here, the rules for toys are, firstly, totally harmonised in the European Union, which means that we cannot adopt national rules in this area. Secondly, we must also say that the toys sold today must be legal. If it's going to be on the shelves, it has to be legal. As toys today must be safe and legal, a mandatory list of contents will therefore contain only some legal substances. You will not write on such a list if a toy contains illegal drugs. Therefore, it will be no security for parents who buy toys for their children. The responsibility for a toy not to contain and release chemical substances in such quantities as to be harmful to children lies with manufacturers and importers and not with parents who buy toys for their children. It is therefore our job to ensure that we have good control over the legality of products on the market. Conservatives cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121524	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121529	Thank you. Now I see that the rapporteur has put on the green tie, perhaps on today's occasion, who knows. At any rate, Conservatives say that they want to be the green voice in the blue block, and that also obliges us to deliver where we can see that there are challenges. And there are challenges in this area. That is what we discussed here during the debate. Unfortunately, too many examples are found that the legislation we have is being violated and the demands on the producers we have are not being complied with. One thing is that the proposal that is on the table cannot be backed up as it is now, but that does not prevent us from doing anything more, so I would really just like to ask the rapporteur: what is Conservatives' response to how we come up with this insecurity? What should we do to ensure that consumers feel that it is safe to buy toys in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121627	We must do what we do today. We may need to intensify it even more. In the random sample, things are being found. It is regrettable that you find things. You shouldn't do that, but you find things. We need to intensify this sampling and then we need to ensure that when there are toys on the shelves where this is found, it has to be removed. And it is the responsibility of producers and importers not to put these things on the shelves. However, we would very much like to contribute to increased control in this area, so that we have even more certainty that the toys will be removed from the shelves if there are banned substances in it. I'd rather not be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121706	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121707	We would like you to make this declaration, but even if we cannot get Conservatives to participate in it, we are, in fact, prepared to use other tools. We would also like to seize the opportunity to give Danish parents greater security in relation to the products you can buy in Denmark. So when the rapporteur says that control may need to be stepped up, I would like to sign for it and ask the rapporteur, as a follow-up, whether this means that we can jointly ask the Minister to call us for negotiations so that we can start looking at how we can strengthen control in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121747	I do not know whether we can do this together, but I can at least say that we are always open to looking at it if anyone starts a debate on it and wants to have a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121756	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121758	Thank you. I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that we are not only talking about substances that are banned; we are also talking about substances that are permitted but that some cannot tolerate, in other words, in line with what we are talking about in the area of food. There may be gluten, there may be lactose, there may be many things that individuals cannot tolerate. Similarly, in the field of chemistry and cosmetics, the rapporteur did not see a good point in allowing consumers to see what is in the products so that they can avoid those of the toy products which contain something that their child cannot tolerate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121849	No, I think again, as several rapporteurs have said from up here, that when you go down and buy toys for your children and grandchildren I also have great-grandchildren, it may also be that I buy something for them and then if you need a list to find out what is illegal, then you can find out; but there are also legal drugs and how much they emit? I think that'll be a huge job for the parents. That is why we would rather have the control that exists today and perhaps intensify it in order to find out how much the legal substances emit, because it is emissions that are important. It is not so much whether there is a legal substance in it and how much there is, but it is the emissions that are important so that it will not harm the children. We are in favour of control, and otherwise it is something that we in the European Union must focus on: whether we can do this even better and have an even greater assurance that our children will not be harmed when playing with their toys.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111121941	The more I hear it, the more I find it difficult to understand that consumers should be confused and burdened with the fact that there is a label on the toy, where there is more than just that it should not be swallowed. I think that the vast majority will buy toys without looking, but the interested consumer will be able to learn more. I just have to say that I do not understand that more rapporteurs and the Minister will discourage consumers from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111122019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111122020	I would agree with the rapporteur that the vast majority of people will buy the toys without looking at them because they trust that they are legal toys. But if you are very interested in this, then you have the opportunity to ask in the business: What does this contain? And then you have to get an answer that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111122037	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I would just like to recommend that, if you want to have a conversation in the Chamber, you do so very lowly, so that we do not disturb the rapporteurs. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Øjvind Vilsholm from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111122102	Thank you. Too many times we have seen chemicals in toys found in chemicals that can damage fetuses and affect the ability to have children; chemicals that accumulate in the body and damage the nervous system, especially in foetuses and children; chemicals that cause risk of liver damage, irritation of the eyes and respiratory organs of children and can cause malformations in unborn children. It's just some of the damage, like... Boracs, lead and dimethylformamide cause in children, and these are the substances that have been found in toys such as slim, fidget spinners and the so-called squishies in the last year. Discovery reveals that there are toys on the shelves in stores containing substances that are extremely harmful to our children's health. The toy market is today the Wild West, where you do not need to tell what substances the toy contains and where some players headlessly import and sell toys when a new toy dill hits the country. And it takes months for the Chemical Inspection to investigate the matter, and while hundreds of thousands of dangerous toys may have ended up in Danish children's rooms, like us. I've seen it with squishies and mucus. But even the conscientious and responsible importers find it difficult to act on the market because there is no requirement for producers to tell us what their products contain. And even if the toy importers can get that information, I doubt, as several rapporteurs have said today, that you can see as a shop what it is that is actually in that toy. So I doubt that a consumer can go to the toy dealer and get to know what is actually in these products. They would be able to do so if a table of contents could be studied together. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that order must be ensured in this area and that producers must be obliged to make a full declaration of the content of the toy, in line with the rules already in place in the area of cosmetics and foodstuffs. We have, in some cases, been concerned about this, and in this way both consumers, dealers and importers can make sure that the toys sold do not contain endocrine disruptors or other dangerous chemicals or, for that matter, substances which are legal but which some consumers want to avoid. The issues that have been raised in 2018 alone show that there is a huge need to give our children more protection from dangerous chemistry in the toys, and it should be a matter of course that the toys you buy in stores in Denmark and that we give our children to play with are not outright toxic or for that matter can cause allergies. So Enhedslisten does not believe that children and endocrine disruptors or that children and carcinogenic substances are in any way related. Of course, dangerous chemistry in our children's toys must be stopped and we cannot stop it until there is greater transparency in this area. A labelling system will therefore be a first step towards better protection for our children, and a labelling system will also help the many parents who need to know whether there are substances in their toys that their children cannot tolerate because of, for example, their children. allergy. And of course it can be done. Coop's got, for example. already introduced product labelling requirements for all toys containing chemistry that they sell, and they have stated in a press release that it makes a difference to inform about what chemical toys contain, as it sharpens the focus of their suppliers, and at the same time it also becomes easier to post-check the toy. The Minister for the Environment and Food has said in the past, and has also said today, that labelling requirements should not be introduced, because producers may be able to cheat on labelling. And that just doesn't make any sense to me. Rules on labelling can, of course, enable producers and importers to be prosecuted if they do not comply with the rules. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that the only way forward is to introduce labelling requirements as soon as possible. Today, the Minister had the opportunity to say yes to a scheme that would ensure better transparency in the Wild West in the field of toys, and could thus have helped prevent some of the many scandals that we will certainly see in the future in this area. And it would also have dressed the Minister just to say yes to work to promote the issue in the European Union. Unfortunately, however, the Minister and the rest of the government have chosen to refuse, and this also means that the Minister is quite alone in the responsibility when we see the next scandal of new hormone disruptors or other toxic chemicals in toys which have then been taken into the children's rooms. The EU's rules in this area are not sufficient, so I hope that the EU will not try to slow down a Danish regime when it is introduced. And I hope that we can agree on that in some way, because it would be good if Denmark could take the lead in this area and hopefully get the other EU countries on the road. In any case, I would like to thank you for the debate we have had today. I think it has been very good and we have also come more around the subject than just talking table of contents, because that is not the only thing we can do in this area, as I have said. And I would also like to thank the Minister for having prepared himself well for today's debate and having been out looking for how control works. Perhaps that is also where we can take action, and perhaps we can even agree to tighten up controls in this area, when we cannot agree to introduce the proposal for mandatory lists of contents. However, I look forward to the work of the committee, and I am at least delighted that, among the parties in the red bloc, we can land some kind of report that is forward-looking. And, if nothing else, we can look forward to having a parliamentary election, where I assume that we have a solid majority behind us, putting pressure on and then getting something done in relation to this area and also getting pressure on the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111122731	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111122754	I note with satisfaction that the rapporteurs have been put in the front row. That's where we always dream of coming up and sitting. So that is all right and that is why the debate is open. I give the floor to Mrs Mette Reissmann as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111122823	Then we shall have the full attention of the Minister, because I would just like to thank the Minister for his statement. It is a good thing that we have this opportunity to discuss the country's research and innovation policy every year. We in the Social Democratic Party really appreciate that very much. It may well be that I will repeat some of my points from last year's debate or last year's debate for that matter, partly because it is necessary, partly because we have a new minister in this area with us today. Research and innovation are the foundation for our country's future growth and for creating jobs. This is how we get answers to the questions that we do not know now, which ensures that our companies have the latest knowledge and therefore also stand strong in international competition. Normally, the discussions in everyday life are about the individual, small issues, the things that are close to us. We rarely have the opportunity to look at the big picture when we also have to face the challenges of everyday life. But we need to look at the big picture, especially when we are talking about research and innovation policy. Because here it is often the case that the decisions we take today are only some that take effect in many years, even decades. After all, research and innovation policy is a far-reaching move. It is hard to understand if you do not have your hands in it almost daily, as most of us do, so it is good that we now have the opportunity to spread it out and debate it, and I look forward to it. What about Denmark's research and innovation policy? Yes, if you read the statement, you have to understand that the government is of the opinion that things are going well. Denmark is one of the most ambitious research nations in the world, says the statement. And if you look at business investment in research and development, it has also been at a stable level for a number of years, and today it represents two thirds of the total investment in Denmark, and in recent years they have also got a little up. It is positive that our companies are investing in research and development, and it also ensures that they stand strong in international competition because they have the latest knowledge in this area. That is what Denmark benefits from. That is what we all benefit from. And that also helps to ensure growth and jobs. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party has also proposed that companies' deductions for investment in research and development should be increased to 130%. This is needed if we are to ensure that Danish companies are stronger in international competition with the latest knowledge. It is therefore of course a pity that the government has not been ambitious enough in this area, but only from 2026 does the deduction increase to 110%. More is needed. If we turn our eyes away from private investment in research and development and towards the public sector, the picture is not so positive. Because the fact is that the government has been responsible for a research policy that certainly cannot be said to be very ambitious. If we look back a few years, the government started with a billion cuts in research with its first Finance Act. From 2016 to 2017, 1.3 billion was saved. kr., and it has thus neither more nor better research. Now it turns out that the government has spent less than 1%. by bnp on research in 2016 and 2017, as there has apparently previously been a wrong adjustment of our bnp. It has now been adjusted upwards. However, it also shows that as a government we have not been able to meet our objectives from the last year, according to the Barcelona objective, which we as a country are obliged to meet. It's quite remarkable, and it means first of all that you haven't set aside the funds, despite the fact that you've found out x time ago that there was this error. But the funds have not been set aside, and that is how we are now proud to live up to an ambition which, unfortunately, has not been materialised. This is not good enough, nor does it testify to the great ambitious things, even though the government believes that it is the very big ambitious blade it is running on. The Prime Minister did not mention research or innovation in his New Year speech, nor in his opening speech. It seems to me that the government's priorities for research and innovation lie at a low level. The government has changed the Minister of Research four times in three years, and I can promise the government it won't be the last time. By 17 June at the latest, there will be another If you are to have excellent research in Denmark, it requires investment. Looking at research in broad terms, the government's annual savings on education cannot be avoided, especially if it is to be assessed whether the government's research policy is ambitious, because things are linked. Education and research are two sides of the same coin. It is important for the overall level of research when the government cuts massively in higher education and saves billions of kroner: less education, the firing of teachers, a deterioration in what is the foundation on which a solid and well-functioning research effort must stand. At the same time, the government's savings on higher education mean that we now hear that it is necessary to cover the savings on teaching activities with research funds. So you stop one hole and create another it's problematic. Why should a promising young Danish academic find it attractive to start a career in research if the funds are so small that the projects are either uninteresting or awarded to older researchers? Or is it only the sure thing you choose? Look, I can just say that it doesn't give lighthouses or Nobel prizes. It makes it very clear that it is quite wrong when the government prides itself on being ambitious, because it is not related to the austerity policy it is pursuing on the contrary. The cold consequences are now apparent. The government also wanted to simplify the business promotion system. A major part of the ecosystem has been centralised which makes SMEs innovate. The Social Democratic Party did not support the agreement to simplify the Danish business promotion system. With the closure of the innovation environments, an important piece was taken out of the possibility of local assistance and advice. These companies will lack the operational effort in terms of the very close sparring that the innovation environments gave entrepreneurs, as there is no funding for this in the Innovation Fund, and the efforts of the innovation environments, which have also been crucial for many start-ups. Moreover, the very close monitoring has been crucial for not throwing good money after bad. The Innovation Fund does not have at present. the competences that the innovation environments have been able to provide in relation to attracting private investors to the companies and that have resulted in each State crown having attracted DKK 6. It is particularly the research-based small companies and, above all, the life science companies that are going to lack that competence. The concentration of a state investment activity through the Growth Fund, which is located in Hellerup, increases the monopoly of the Growth Fund as an investor in Denmark, which may be a simplification I acknowledge but it is not an advantage for the individual entrepreneur, nor is it an advantage for private investors. The diversity, including the geographical one, decreases along with competition. It is far from Brande, Skørping and Vojens and also Randers for that matter and then all the way to Hellerup, if that is, as a start-up small company you want the sparring and, incidentally, also the funding that is needed when we look at the early stage. Not everything can be done with digital solutions. Many times the meeting is actually the most appropriate face-to-face meeting. If we look forward, the statement lists a number of fine initiatives taken by the government and several of them on the basis of the good progress we have made, which we have gathered in this Chamber by my political colleagues in the field of research and training, have had in the negotiations of the research reserve. That was really good. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to my colleagues for the very good progress that has been made. At the same time, however, many of the initiatives mentioned in the report are characterised by the setting up of committees of experts and the launching of studies whose results are long overdue. It's ten birds on the roof and one in the hand. In isolation, there is nothing wrong with that, because it is good to have analyses, it is good to have facts, and it is good to have all things reversed when it is the case that we have to make decisions. But when so much of the government's research and innovation policy initiatives are about setting up commissions and committees of experts, both internally and externally, then one can of course question what the government wants in the field of research and innovation. That is why we have to ask: why not take action here and now? We're ready, you're ready. In this way, we can ensure that we invest in the knowledge that strengthens Denmark. I look forward to hearing the Minister's answer to that. For social democracy, it is crucial that we increase the areas that contribute particularly to growth and jobs, and the positions of strength with potential that we have, despite our small size as a country. It's life science, it's shipping, but we also have bublers that are within IT that are within finance and that come in the scop here, so why not walk the talk, as they say in modern management language and out in the real world. Drop the savings, get started with the rest of us, and show that Denmark, even though it is a small country, has the muscles that it takes. Let's get started. It will be truly ambitious. That is why we are also proposing that priority be given to technical research, so that in future it will be 20%. of all public funds spent on technical research. We are proposing a green research billion, and we also believe that concrete answers are needed in order to strengthen research and innovation efforts. The government's bid has been cuts in research and training and to underfinance two years in a row compared to its own target of spending 1%. of public research. Hopefully we will be wiser again today, when we are discussing and debating research and innovation efforts, and I look forward much to the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111123915	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111123934	Thank you. Yesterday I attended an event at Dansk Industri, organized by Dansk Industri, the Engineering Association and the GTS-Foreningen on Denmark as the leading test country. It was a really good arrangement. It was exciting and interesting to hear about how to do in other countries. There were representatives from Sweden, England and Germany who told about how to do it in those countries. After all, these are some countries, at least England and Germany, of a significantly different size than Denmark and also with other options, and therefore it also gave rise to a discussion of what we have here at home. What I hear from it is that we should not copy other countries. We need to find our own way. We're good at that at home in small Denmark. What we're good at is being agile, it's being quick to change and support a development. As an example, I cannot help mentioning drones and robots, and I know that they are often the ones I use, but it is so good an example because it shows how good we are, but it also shows something about the challenges. For me, this shows three areas which are important, with different strengths, when we talk about research and innovation tests in the various technological fields. One is, of course, the technological foundation, the drone and associated digital equipment and programs, and it could also be the self-propelled car or the robot. Then there are the legal, legislative issues. Where can the drone fly in tests? Where can the self-propelled car go? What kind of traffic rules should there be, etc. etc.? And finally, as a third, there is the social part. How is this to be implemented in society? We must do something to create an understanding and acceptance of the new technologies and the use of drones, self-propelled cars, etc.? From that discussion yesterday there was also a discussion on other areas where there are the same challenges, for example: energy, where you need test areas where you can test, for example. new types of measuring and finding out what effect it has on behavior if you make other forms of settlement. This requires derogations from the law. It is a research that is currently in the EUDP. There are also other challenges that could lie in GUDP, MUDP, etc. A picture was drawn that understanding of research developments in these areas could also require adjusted legislation and that understanding was not so great in the ministries involved. Of course, because it is not a core task for them. It is for us that are gathered here today. That's why it leads me to pull out an old travert. I have probably mentioned it both last year and last year and the year before again, but that is why it will be no less important. We should ensure a comprehensive plan and strategy for what we want, which covers all areas, including the UDPs. If we are to have the maximum effect of all the effects and resources we use, we need to know where we want to go. Then we must combine the measures we are taking. If we want to be at the forefront of drones, there is no point in us hanging on the brakes and not ensuring that producers can be allowed to fly with them. Then they go to other countries and fly with them. If we want to be at the forefront of the energy management systems, then there is no point in trying out the possibilities on a large scale. That is why we still need to create an overall strategy for research and development in Denmark. Today's report and also the report on education and research policy that we received just before Christmas are very good, but what is the specific priority we want to give and therefore also what we do not want to give priority to? This will facilitate future discussions, efforts and priorities of funds; also an argument about more funds will be easier if we could put it on a strategy. We've talked about this before, and we'll probably talk about it again. But I have such a little show. It could be really nice if next year's statement could give a status on how the new overall strategy from the summer of 2019 had been the basis for the allocation of the research reserve for 2020. Could we not agree today on that ambition? Then we would have gotten a good start on 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111124357	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111124414	Thank you, sir. President, and thank the Minister for the written statement. It contains very interesting reading, and we have heard it before, politicians have said it, researchers have said it, and the business community says it, and I will then repeat it here: research and knowledge are absolutely essential to our society. This is the way to a better and richer Denmark, because with new knowledge we create new opportunities; the possibility that we can better help the cancer-stricken patient, the opportunity to give our older people a better old age, the opportunity to create more efficiency in our companies; in other words, research and innovation is a core area that we must prioritise. And I think we do. As the Minister's statement shows, Denmark is among the highest ranking countries in the world when it comes to investment in research and development. We can be proud of that. As a new rapporteur on this subject, I was pleased to note that I have come to an area of broad cooperation and agreement on most things. That is not exactly what we can say about the area I came from, namely the area of foreigners. The debate was a little more busy here. It is not because the debate is not also ongoing here, but it is good to see that we are so good at working together. A good example is precisely our agreement on the distribution of the research reserve. It is a very good agreement that has been reached with broad support. Here I would like to pay tribute to the Enhedslisten. Now Mrs Eva Flyvholm is not here even today, but she made sure to welcome the Minister humorously when he had his first trip in this Chamber. She was somewhat untraditionally invited by the Minister to invite all parties to negotiations on the research reserve. And it turned out to be a higher unit and, as the Minister said at the time, you all seem very, very nice. Perhaps that is what has characterised the process that has taken place, because we had an agreement with all parties. Now we must also remember that Enhedslisten is a party with a Prime Minister's candidate, and if there is one thing I have learned in my last 31⁄2 years in politics, it is of course that everything can happen. So if on the other side of the election we have a Prime Minister from the Enhedslisten or a Research Minister from the Enhedslisten, then I hope that Enhedslisten will remember the great grandiosity and hospitality of the Left during the negotiations and also invite us to join in future negotiations. In addition, I think that our negotiations were productive and exciting. We were able to reverse both the major themes, but also the themes that were particularly important for the individual parties. It was from several women in research, the green areas and agriculture to the Grundtvig Center I am particularly pleased that we can preserve the Grundtvig Centre, because although we must of course do research in the future and technology, we should not forget our past where we come from and our entire foundation. So the research embraces widely, and it also embraces drones, which is important to remember. For the Left and the government, one of our priorities was the new pioneer centres, for here talented researchers must be able to create conditions at the top elite level with a long time horizon and very free framework. I am glad that we also had a sensible framework in place here, which should ensure that we can attract researchers from all over the world. Every year, in the Left, we want to create a good framework for excellent research in Denmark in the future too. In this context, I am pleased that the Minister's statement says that Denmark places itself high among the OECD countries when it comes to industrial investment in research. I think it is an important part that business is not just oriented and that it is not just business-oriented, but that business itself is an active player in our research. Finally, Danish researchers are high when you look at which research is quoted most among OECD countries, and we can be proud of that. Besides the many billions invested in research, political ambitions and strategies are also important. We must show which direction we are going to take. Our distinguished position among OECD countries should not become a sleeping pillow. We must ensure that our money is used specifically and purposefully. The government's research and innovation policy strategy • Denmark • ready for the future shows precisely that solution. It points out that our research must be of the highest quality and that research must be directed towards the greatest possible benefit in society. In addition, there is the broad range of initiatives on which the strategy is based. In my view, this is a good way to target Denmark's research. The strategy is important because it responds to an important question: how do we keep up with time and constantly renew ourselves so that we do not lag behind technological developments. Denmark should also be at the top in 10 or 20 years. With these words, the Left can fully endorse the conclusions and analyses contained in the statement. It provides an image of the government's willingness to give high priority to research and innovation, both in terms of investment and in terms of targeted initiatives. We must maintain our strong position in this area and give our researchers and institutions the best conditions. That is why the Left supports the determination of the government, and I welcome the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111124945	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We shall proceed to Mrs Rosa Lund, who is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111124959	Thank you. After all, research is what is moving society forward and is moving Denmark forward, and that is why we in the Enhedslist are extremely pleased that this government and the current minister have chosen to continue the good tradition that has been in this area, which has somehow been broken, but which has been taken up again, namely that all parties are invited to the research negotiations and that there is a broad settlement in this area. We are very pleased about this in the Enhedslisten, and we hope that we can continue to do so regardless of who will be Prime Minister or Research Minister after the elections. Denmark must be one of the frontrunners when it comes to research. We must remain a country where there is room to develop new ideas and create new solutions. But we can only be if we dare take risks if we dare release research. After all, it is impossible to tell in advance which research will become the good solutions and which projects will end up producing no results. That is why we need to take risks and dare to invest, and in concrete terms this means that we need to strengthen basic research and free research. In order to arrive at the good ideas, we should not be dictated by what business needs right now and here, that is to say today. Instead, we must ensure that there is room for new thinking and thinking differently and space to develop without particular companies turning research in a particular direction. Because if we do so, if we are dictated by it, then we are researching the world we know today and the society we have today instead of the society and the world we have tomorrow, which we do not yet know for good reasons. Just as I think that is an important point, which I also think we should be much better at recognising that it should not be from in here either, we dictate exactly what and how to research. I am well aware of it myself: it may well be a bit in the hands of politicians in order to turn some funds in a particular direction in a particular project in which you yourself believe a lot and which is in line with the policy that you yourself represent. But it's a dangerous path to go. I do not believe, and we believe in the Enhedslisten, that it is we who sit in here who know best what and how to research. They know this best in the world of research, and that is why we will continue to urge that more funding be made available for the Free Research Fund and the Fundamental Research Fund. This is what can move Denmark's research forward in the future. In order to maintain our position, it is also important that we share the knowledge we discover and the knowledge we create in the research world, and that the students, the researchers of the future, can become just as capable researchers as those we have today, it requires investment in our university educations. I don't think it's just about money, I think it's also about the way we organized the university. I believe, for example, that all students would benefit greatly from meeting a researcher during their studies, in other words receiving teaching in the most recent research. This requires that we dare to make demands on researchers, on universities, on researchers, so that to be at the top of the research world, we also have to ensure the diversity of future researchers, and here I think we can start by ensuring more women at the top of the research world. Because equality does not come by itself, even in the world of research. We need to act on this, and I do not think it is enough just to follow developments as described in the statement. There has to be action behind the words, and that is why we will continue to work in the Enhedslisten to ensure that special programmes are made aimed at giving women researchers more space in the research world. One could also choose the model they have in Norway, where they have a permanent independent committee which advises the Minister on equality in research. It has actually produced very good results, and I think this is a very good example of maintaining an arm's length principle while ensuring that action is taken to ensure that there is equality in research. So to be at the top, it requires that we continue to have free and good universities. Because, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, research and training are two sides of the same coin, because it is from the universities that the researchers come. Therefore, basic grants at universities should also be significantly higher, so that they have the freedom to decide and decide for themselves more, and it is crucial that universities have good conditions. That is why I do not think we can simply put away the taximeter discussion when we talk about research, although it is really nice that we can all agree that research is important and that we are making a broad agreement. As the rapporteur of the Left said, this is one of the areas in which we actually have some basic consensus, and we must stick to that too. But I do not think that we can leave the taximeter discussion where we clearly have some fundamental disagreements, and that is where we in the Enhedslist believe it is a bad condition for future researchers to save on their education. I think I have to mention this in this debate. Finally, I would just like to say that I myself often think that it can be the case when you discuss research, that it will be such a little fluffy and that it will be something with some big words about the jobs of the future and the climate of the future and basic funding and innovation etc., but in reality it is very simple. It is about our setting a good framework here from Christiansborg for researchers and universities, ensuring more basic research, more free research and more researchers who teach more at our universities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111125618	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111125631	Thank you. And here too many thanks to the Minister for the fine written statement on research and innovation in Denmark. I would like to start by quoting the real research rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Henrik Dahl. I am sure that those present in this Chamber have heard it many times today, but I do think that it hits very precisely when Mr. Henrik Dahl says that innovation is taking a lot of new knowledge and making it into money, and that research is taking a lot of money and turning it into new knowledge. In addition, I would also like to put a little more of my own words on research and innovation, because I actually think it is a huge force that we in Denmark talk about research and innovation under the same heading in a statement in the Parliamentary Assembly. But it is not enough for us to talk about it; we really need to link all the good from innovation and entrepreneurship even better with the excellent research going on in Denmark. Initiatives that have started up under the current minister clearly point in the right direction, but can we perhaps do more? Yeah, I think we certainly can. Researchers at home may need to learn more about the needs of customers. They must be able to communicate it to someone other than their very close colleagues. They need to learn to work together across domains. They must learn to think about scaling results, whether it is results from basic research or tests of innovative products that can be used in the operation of the public sector or in companies as a basis for value creation. The entrepreneurial environments must, on the other hand, learn that data is more important than gut sensations; that there is a difference between data and quality in their collection, analysis and use; that there is an enormous difference between what users say they will do and what they actually do; and that documentation of this often requires very strong research designs. With regard to the inventor law of 1986 - well enough with changes from 2011 - perhaps there is something we can look at there? Yeah, I think there is, too. Because isn't it too difficult for researchers at Danish universities to go from idea to business? Can we motivate more researchers from Danish universities to go to create one of the companies with a billion-dollar turnover that the Minister and indeed all of us would really like? I think so. And I think the law needs to be looked at in the seams. Businesses need universities and universities need companies, but we need to find a new balance between motivating researchers to create new ones and increasing opportunities to create businesses and maintaining the possibility of association and cooperation with our large companies within, for example, the European Union. pharmacy, green energy and drones and robots. Can we be innovative and change the legislation so that we can retain the universities' ability to develop and create new knowledge that is shared and included in education and publications, while at the same time companies can retain intellectual rights and domain insights, which gives our Danish companies a competitive advantage in a global market? And can such an innovative and new inventor's law perhaps mean that we should merit differently and thus value our researchers and their ability to cooperate more than we do today? Making publications in large journals is important, and we should be proud of how talented our researchers at home are at that very thing. It is a great start to knowledge sharing, but it is often very difficult to apply results that are written about, for others than researchers narrowly within the same field. Universities are our most important knowledge institution, but could they be better at knowledge sharing? I think so, and I estimate that many researchers could learn about communication from the good entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, whom we fortunately also have many of in Denmark. The Minister's area covers education, research and innovation. We must train our researchers in innovation and strengthen their competences in interdisciplinary cooperation with other researchers and with business. We need to allow knowledge to flow more easily from our universities to our contractors and startups. We must allow universities to be obliged to share results, including from what cannot directly create articles or businesses. And let us also bear in mind that the fact that a university takes a patent does not necessarily create a company. Perhaps a patent should not be an end in itself. Value creation should be a goal, and value creation can take many forms. So there is enough to tackle, no matter who sits as minister, even after the next parliamentary elections. And in the Liberal Alliance, we are very happy to contribute to an open cooperation where knowledge is shared across, so that together we can create the strong knowledge society that we think we have and which I think we can have. And so I and the Liberal Alliance take note of the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111130254	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111130307	Thank you. I'd like to start somewhere else and say that now I'm wearing a dress today, but if I had had buttons in my shirt, I would have left a button open down here. I refer, of course, to the Minister's little incident here during the Christmas holiday to a New Year gala court ball, where there was a button open and where the Minister then referred to the fact that it should not all be so perfect and that we should do away with this culture of perfection. If I hadn't been wearing this dress, I would have just celebrated it by leaving a button open down here, because I want to talk about perfection and research at first. Scientists who dare not make mistakes will never be great scientists. I would say at all that if you dare not make mistakes, you can never become a scientist. I also think that this is important to discuss in research and not just in education, because if we have young people in our educational system who dare not make mistakes, they do not dare to become researchers either, because researchers make really, very many mistakes until they do the great invention or what really moves for them. So I also believe that perfection is an important debate and an important theme in research, not just in relation to education. I'll start with that. As regards the statement here: Yes, Denmark must be an internationally leading country in terms of research. We agree with that. It is important to give priority to this, for example. Lighthouse environments, pioneer centers and global presence. Yes, I do not think we can disagree on that in this Chamber. There's not much to disagree with. However, I would just like to put a little wormwood in the cup, because I think: how does this relate to abolishing education in English, which is, after all, the food chain to have internationally leading research environments? It does not do so, as I believe, because in internationally leading research environments there are internationally leading researchers who are able to do research in English. Then there is another point that is mentioned in the statement. This is what research is supposed to do as much good as possible. What does that mean, and what does it mean for the research efforts? In any case, this means that the classical technical knowledge training and sciences, i.e. STEM, and research in it, are given priority, but it probably also means that companies' objectives and desires will be a major factor in dictating research. In the alternative, we believe that it can be problematic if companies' objectives and applications become too dominant in terms of what research we get in Denmark. This also has an impact on free research. In the alternative, we want to spend more money on free research, on basic research, on research which only aims to gain new knowledge and does not aim to have a specific application. And, as I have said before in the Chamber, I believe that it is essential to give priority to humanist research and also to link the two together in the context of technical research, for the time being is marked by a great focus on ethical dilemmas and issues, for example. data-ethical issues, big data problems, which, of course, offer enormous opportunities, for example. in the field of health, but which also offers huge opportunities for abuse. But also in relation to the more inter-human issues, there are many ethical dilemmas in research and innovation at the moment: robots that take over social contact with, for example. older people who only have contact with a robot seal or a robot that feeds them or whatever it may be. Time is also marked by pseudoscience and fake news, and in this context it is also extremely important that we invest significantly in really good research. And what about the ethical aspects of the world we want to live in and the world we want to leave behind for future generations? Sustainability, the environment, the climate and our well-being must be researched more if it is up to us in the alternative. Finally, I would like to mention that the Minister in the report here also talks about the need to bring all talents with us. It says here in the introduction: "And then, among other things, the government will also strengthen the career opportunities for talented researchers and distribute research funds to universities with a greater focus on quality. There I cannot help mentioning that women in research are an area that should be mentioned more, I think, in this statement than it is being done. 42 per cent. women in research are lower than in the other Nordic countries, shows a report from last year from the Danish Agency for Research and Education. Women also get less funding than men to research for. This is certainly problematic, because more than half of the recruitment basis is actually women 56 per cent. we have a really good recruitment basis for getting more women in research. So I hope that the Minister for Research will do something more about it, because right now I do not think the Minister is doing enough, I will be honest and say. However, I would like to conclude by saying that, for the alternative, it is important that we strengthen the areas that create a sustainable society, both on the green and on the social bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111131022	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111131038	Thank you. It is a very fine report on research and innovation in Denmark, which the Minister has published. One rapporteur mentioned earlier that it looks a little like the others, and they often do, and that is what they have done under other governments, and that is why my speech will probably look a bit like what we debated last year. Among other things, it says: I know that this is something the Minister is concerned with. It is very good, and it is also absolutely necessary that we get more synergy between all those who fortunately and increasingly invest in research in Denmark, if we are to remain a country that contributes with groundbreaking and really good research.We say excellently in this world, but it's just such a little bad word, but excellent research that helps solve problems. I think it's hard to be really against that. After all, none of us are really opposed to a new Nobel Prize being awarded to Denmark or to setting up pioneer centres. We have agreed on this in a very broad settlement. I just think we have to say that we should not be led to believe that, as politicians, we can be the ones who think about it or distribute us to it. As several speakers have also said, research must be free of political interference when it is carried out. We need to set targets for what direction we want in what are some major challenges, we want to prioritise using research funds, public research funds, to solve, and then, of course, we need to ensure the framework that allows us to have high ambitions and, rather, higher than now. Then I am a little excited about this year too, which is a new model for the distribution of basic research funds that the government is proposing. We may find out more soon. It must promote the quality of research, as stated in the statement, and so did last year, and no one can really be against that. So it will be exciting when the committee of experts comes out soon, because that is really, really important. That is the key to the fact that public research funds and universities have the opportunity to play this a little free role, and they are under pressure in this area. So I welcome this and also the many committees of experts that have been set up. Fortunately, the Left is no longer opposed, it seems, at least this minister is not against experts. It is a good thing, because it is basically the whole basis of the nature of research that we are precisely allocating funds for research in Denmark to those who are the most capable. It is, and must also be, research of the highest quality that is being allocated the funds. When you talk about new indicators of quality, it sounds promising, but we just have to remember to ask whether they are new instead of those that are already, or whether they are someone that we put on top of. What's it like for researchers to report back on these indicators? How much time will be devoted to this in relation to research? Then suddenly it doesn't sound so promising, I think. But I know that it is a difficult balance to strike, and I expect that the Minister will involve the rapporteurs when it comes to implementing it. Better career opportunities for talented researchers are also very good. That was also stated last year, but this year it is added that the Ministry will follow developments in the gender balance. I think that we in the conciliation circle can also take some credit for having come along, those of us who have discussed the distribution of research funds, and that is a step in the right direction to ensure talent. But in the Netherlands they have gone far, far further to ensure that gender blindness does not continue to rule in the world of research. You mean talent really seriously. They have put criteria and requirements for equality into all research programmes and all distribution programmes... require you to take off these famous sex glasses where you don't see it, because you don't know what these invisible barriers are. We should take a closer look at them. We do so in all sorts of other contexts, so I hope that the Minister will look at the rather impressive work they are doing here. Then I would also like to mention that the government and DF's massive savings in research during the first years of government still mean that there are gaps in the food chain of research, and if it is not in place, the long-term consequences will be because, as we all know, it takes a very, very long time to build up research environments. It only takes one lousy bill to break it down again, and there have been a few of them. It has improved in recent years and I very much hope that this development will continue. It can be speeded up much more. In the area of innovation, I am very pleased with the ambition which continues in this statement, i.e. closer coordination between the Danish Innovation Fund, which I think is right, very well under some rather difficult conditions of relocation at the moment, and the various development and demonstration programmes administered in the various ministries. It is important that it should also be thought together. So almost at the end here: A number of years ago, actually quite a few years ago, we in the Danish Parliament agreed on not in law, but in speech and language to the goal of using 1%. of public research must be a floor and not a ceiling. There were then years when it hit far below because the government made massive savings, but yet it still seems to have become a ceiling, because it turns out that the government does not now achieve the one percent, which is the goal we have set together actually the promise we have made in Europe. It is because bnp is up-adjusted, and it is really gratifying, but it is also because the government prioritises its initiative to exactly hit 1%. of bnp. I just want to say that, even during the toughest economic crisis, we gave priority to research in the previous government and were above 1%, and it is a pity that the government has saved so much. It is short-term, unambitious and backward-looking, but it is also a pity that you cannot drop off on that floor, so that you cannot get up above 1%, as it should be when we invest in research. You hear it around you, just this week there has been massive demand for more research investment from industry and, of course, from the research world, but with a much broader appeal. I hope you have read the quite amazing contribution from Mette Fjord Sørensen and Flemming Besenbacher, Carlsbergfondet and Dansk Industri, about why we need much more massive investments. So we don't need any more ceilings. We should not have a ceiling on research. We already have the backward-looking training ceiling. We want to get rid of that. We have to set off on this floor, and we want to be involved in radical left-wing legislation every time more funding is given priority for research and education. We must put up with our ambitions, because that is the prerequisite for delivering the new solutions to our problems that we have been good at over the years. These are new jobs that we need to make a living on in Denmark: better life, cleaner planet, better environment, more fun learning, better life. It's research that saves the world. I love being in this conciliation circle, because that's the enthusiasm we share. I love research, and I love that we live in a country where we have contributed so many solutions not only to the challenges and problems that we have ourselves, but throughout the world, where we have been leading them and, of course, have made money on it, so that we could develop new jobs, better jobs, so that it is not us who have too many of the jobs that are just the allerallers heavy in the world. We have that because we have world-class research that helps to secure it. We must not stop doing that; we must give it even higher priority. So we are very happy, Minister, to enter into negotiations on the lack of millions in order to achieve the promise of 1%. of bnp. 436 million kr. I have made it up to 2017 that we are missing to achieve the target of 1% at all. We are under now, and that is why the ceiling is already higher above us. We could get very good research for that, it is actually a whole series of pioneer centers. The money is there, the adjustment has been made. I'll be ready at any time, anywhere to negotiate more money for research.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111132045	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why the trip has come to the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111132057	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the many good speeches and questions. There has not been much debate yet; let us see if I can change that. One thing I have become aware of in politics is that there are quite a lot of prime minister candidates in this country. I have not heard that so many people have joined as candidates for education and research, but the debate has changed a little today. There are at least a few, and I would also like to join in as part of that candidacy and make it quite official that I would like to continue as Minister for Education and Research after the elections too, because then I think we can have the continuity that is being demanded here. I am glad to see that in this Chamber we all really have a passion for this area and there have been many good questions and proposals. I'm not sure I'm gonna address them all, but otherwise you're gonna have to ask. Research, as several people have said, is the basis for creating a good future. It is the one that lays the foundations for us to create solutions to the challenges that not only Denmark but the world faces. These are challenges in the area of diseases, in climate, in sustainable production, and I can go on. We need to find solutions to these challenges, both for us, but definitely for our children and grandchildren, so that they too can have a long and good life on this planet. Research and innovation are also the key to grasping all the opportunities that new technology offers us. Just think of what we can do in the field of artificial intelligence, if we understand it properly. So research and innovation are the basis for growth in our businesses. And we all agree on that. That agreement also became quite clear when we were negotiating on the research reserve... all the parties were in on it. So our discussion isn't about whether we need to spend a little less on it. It goes on whether we need to spend more on it. And that's a very good starting point, because then I guess we're not that far apart anyway. I believe, despite what has been said by some rapporteurs here from the platform, that we are ambitious. Danish research is world-class. When I stood outside and was a very ordinary citizen of this country, an ordinary business manager in this country, it wasn't quite clear to me how tough we are in this area and how much we actually invest in research. We are high in all international comparisons. When you measure the scientific impact on the number of quotes, we are at the top. And we give priority to research. We have continued the goal that the minimum minimum must be 1%. of bnp that we spend on research. So it's not a ceiling we have. But when we do the priorities, in recent years it has become the one percent. This means that with the one percent that we then use, we are at the top when we compare ourselves with other OECD countries; when we look at the research carried out in the public sector, we are at the top. We can be proud of that. After all, it is gratifying that when you go back a few years and look, it turns out that BTP was actually higher for some years than we actually knew at the time when we were sitting and making the budget and presenting the draft budget. And that is how we are going for one percent at the time of budgeting, so that now, with the update that came last November, we can see that we were actually slightly lower than the one percent, does not mean that we do not have a very, very high level of ambition at this time. That's how we knit it together. We have a clear strategy for research and innovation. There are two objectives: Danish research must be of the highest international quality, and research must make the most of the benefits in society. With the strategy, we have launched a series of new initiatives to boost both research and innovation. And one of the most important initiatives in fundamental research is the research aimed at creating fundamental breakthroughs that can benefit a great many people, and the research that we do not quite know where to use and use, but where we believe that the knowledge we get through that research can really help. Our ambition has been to create new pioneer centers. This should allow selected exceptionally talented researchers to establish some elite research environments that have a long time horizon, very, very great freedom and a very ambitious economic framework. They must compete with the best international research environments and therefore attract international top researchers. They must, of course, also contribute to the task of creating a basis for future top researchers and helping to train. And in fact, the negotiations on the Research Reserve for 2019 succeeded in agreeing on that. And with the support of all of you, we have set aside 180 million. kr. for that purpose. At the same time, we have a dialogue with the private foundations to join them in solving this very, very important task. We are also looking at, and I admit that we have been doing this for a few years, how we wisely distribute these basic research funds to universities. They amount to 9 billion. kr. per year and thus 40%. of our total public research budget. Right now we are distributing them according to training grants, reclaimed external funding, training of PhDs and publishing. This objective has the challenge of primarily rewarding quantity, for example. how many articles are published, rather than the quality of the research being carried out. That is why we want to look at it and see if we can find a new model for it. Now it is very, very soon that this international group of experts will come up with their proposals. They should not make recommendations, but they should clarify how to do it in other countries, so that we can use it as a basis for discussing whether we can make it smarter here in Denmark. So I look forward to very, very soon, within the next few months, receiving the expert group's proposals, and then I promise that I will discuss it with you, because this is an important area and it means a lot to universities. I believe that we can actually succeed in putting Denmark at the forefront of new technology, but it also requires, if we are to dare to go that way, that we have to invest enough in shaping new technology according to Danish values, and this requires that we have some very, very strong research environments in this area, and it is challenging to be on the right track, because the other countries are investing very, very massively in new technology. If we take an area like artificial intelligence, there's a regular race going on. China invests huge sums of money in this area, and they do so very much because they want to monitor their entire population 24-7. So this is not the technology we want for Denmark. We must shape it according to Danish values: openness, trust, transparency and codecision. So we get some software made in Denmark, which is based on the reputation we have around the world, which is that what comes from Denmark, you can trust that what comes from Denmark is based on a sensible social model that many other countries also want. Once again, we also showed unity in this area, where we then set aside 215 million. kr. for research and new technological opportunities through the Innovation Fund and 80 million. kr. for research into, inter alia, artificial intelligence and big data through the Danish Free Research Foundation. I think that helps to give a real boost to the talent stock in this area. We do world-class research, but we are not good enough to transform it into innovation. We need to be much better at getting it out and building commercial products on the basis of this knowledge. That is why we must have created even more business successes that come from our universities... business successes like Universal Robots, as you all know. My ambition is that in ten years' time we will have ten new companies that have reached 1 billion. kr. on the market. Those companies must come from universities, so we have more companies and more startups out there that dare to go out into the dark, dare go out there where it is not just a commercial question of whether someone will buy it, but where it is also a technological question whether it is possible at all. Danish entrepreneurs must have that level of ambition, and we must help them by making it even easier to move knowledge from universities into reality. That is why I am also pleased that we have set up another expert group on knowledge-based entrepreneurship, looking at what we can do better overall. We have also made it simpler by agreeing with the Danish People's Party to simplify the business promotion system. Here we decided to create a new effort for knowledge-based entrepreneurship, which we anchored in a combination of the Innovation Fund, which received the most, and the Growth Fund, and they have launched several new initiatives. The way we have financed these new initiatives, as they stand, is to have abolished the innovation environment, and the fact that we have been able to do so, I see a bit as a luxury, because the Danish entrepreneurial environment has moved very much since 1998, when we created the innovation environment. So where at that time there might have been a handful of perhaps a little more of what we call business angels in Denmark, there are now many thousands, depending on which inventory you are looking at, and they are therefore very good at fulfilling the task that Mrs Mette Reissmann talked about, which is knowledge, help and investment out to entrepreneurs. We have then chosen to say: should we not see if we can use that money in a different way, in a simpler way, for the benefit of entrepreneurs coming from universities? The international panel of experts that we have set up to look at the entire value chain, the whole food chain, the role of universities, the role of the GTS, the Innovation Fund, the Growth Fund... the whole thing must then come up with their recommendation here during 2019. As a component of that, we will also look at how we make this transfer of technology from universities, and I would very much like to follow up on what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said about making it even more free to get this knowledge out of universities, so that we can also have a look at it at that time. Now I have sometimes mentioned here that we have set up some expert groups, Danish and international, who are working with universities to see if we can do better. It may sound a little strange that I, as an entrepreneur, can be satisfied with it, because an entrepreneur's mantra is a bit just do it, but I can, because as an entrepreneur I was responsible for perhaps my own money, perhaps 20 or 50 employees, perhaps some investors' money and perhaps 1,000 customers, but when we are here, we are responsible for the whole of Denmark, for taxpayers' money, for something that we agree on is very, very important for Denmark, but perhaps also very fragile. That is why we have to think about doing something new, and that is why I am happy that we have set up these and have said that we are now asking some experts. For example. is the chairman of the international group of experts to look at the entire food chain, Tony Raven of Cambridge Enterprise, who sits at one of the finest universities in England and has really made the transfer of technology in companies work. I think that's the right way to do it. But don't worry, we're gonna get this into action. I promise. This summer I was in Greenland to visit EastGRIP, the science station, where it is a Danish-led research team, but occupied internationally, drilling ice cores from the ice sheet. It gives us fantastic knowledge of the climate many, many thousands of years back, and when we have that knowledge, we might be better at forecasting what is going to happen to the climate in the future. There is not a day in the Ministry where I am not puzzled by what Danish research can do, how high the level is and how dedicated Danish researchers are. So we have a lot to offer as a research nation, and we can do something special. We must take this special step out internationally, spread it out, and then be prepared to engage in international cooperation. We must believe that we can succeed, even if we are a small country, and we must use the opportunities we have, for example through Horizon, where the amounts allocated to research and innovation are quite different from those we are discussing here. Since 2014, Denmark and Danish researchers have participated in more than 1,500 EU projects, which help to ensure that Danish research is world-class by cooperating internationally. We must continue to engage in European and international research and innovation cooperation. There we can move something. That is also why we have so far created seven innovation centres around the world, and here later in January I am going to Boston and open the eighth. Finally, I would just like to make a few comments on what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned an overall strategy and what Mrs Rosa Lund also mentioned about free research. I feel a bit that something that I would like us to have a discussion about was how we find the right balance between what we would like as politicians because we have some ambitions that we would like to use research for some of what we all believe research can for Denmark, for example. in the area of climate change and what we would like to see, namely that research is completely free. It is therefore worth a discussion, and we had it a little while when we were in the negotiating room, and I do not think we were always in complete agreement on it, but we too, as politicians, must be able to say that we would like research to be carried out in this broad area and, at the same time, could have a principle that research is free, so it is the researchers themselves who decide what they want to do research into, but so we have the political courage to say that within it I look forward to continuing the fantastic cooperation with you and discussing these important issues both here today and in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111133509	Thank you. And the Minister must have replied adequately, because there are no brief comments. Thank you, Minister. There is real consensus here. No, there is a brief comment, so the Minister can come back up here. There's a question. No? Okay, that's fine. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20190111133538	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 15 January 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Have a good weekend.
