ParlaMint-DK_20191205100002	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Niels Flemming Hansen (KF) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Request no. 25 (What can the Minister tell us about the reason for the government's decision to stop the previous government's decision to transfer responsibility for a number of traffic-related tasks from the police to the Customs Authority with a view to simplifying the administration of driving licences and special transport permits, etc., shorter, uniform waiting times for driving tests and the release of 115 officers to actually police professional duties?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100036	The item listed as No. 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider it given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100049	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 23 by Karina Adsbøl (DF), Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen (S), Anne Honoré Østergaard (V), Samira Nawa (RV), Halime Oguz (SF), Christian Juhl (EL), Nase Khader (KF), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 23 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100137	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100150	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100217	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100233	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end in favour of 111 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA), against which 0 abstentions voted 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100316	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT) voted against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100337	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100456	The debate is open. Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100518	Thank you. We must take good care of our animals and we must treat them properly and we must respect them, whether they are domestic animals, pets or wild animals in nature. This is something that is of great concern to us. And from this platform we must also say that animals have got a whole new dimension in relation to making Denmark known; not least, we have already opened the ban on wild animals in circuses with circus elephants. It is my clear conviction that what we are responsible for here is to make animal welfare as good as possible, and that is why I think it is worth bearing in mind that this legislative proposal actually simplifies legislation, or at least brings it together to make it clearer. We update the current Animal Protection Act, which is now very many years old, so that it becomes more up-to-date. We simplify the entire animal welfare legal complex, so I think it will be considerably easier to find out. In this way, we sometimes make these complex rules much more transparent for the ordinary Dane. At the same time, the new purpose clause in the law makes it clear that the aim of the law is to ensure good animal welfare, to protect and to respect animals, and I think that is very, very good. I would like to highlight one point which is of great personal concern to me. Today there is a ban on fighting between dogs in the law, but we are now extending that to other animals too, and I think that when, for example, we get rid of dogs. see pictures, film clips, etc. Of these cockfights, where people make money from the fact that cocks fight each other, you get really, really bad. That is not how animals should feel, and that is why I am really, really pleased that we are clarifying this in this. So, with these comments, I should like to say from the Chair that the Social Democratic Party can support the bill that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100737	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100741	Thank you. I think the rapporteur had a lot of good points in his speech, and the points that are highlighted here are also important improvements. However, I would just like to draw attention to something that the Animal Ethnic Council has pointed out in the consultations where they have said that it is important that we recognise animals as living and sensory beings in the legislation. The Animal Ethics Council has suggested that one can write in § 2, that animals are living and sensory beings, and then write any exceptions into the legal notes. They further argue that it can make sense, since now the vast majority of the law is precisely about animal species, which there is scientific consensus about being sentient beings. So if there are now a few exceptions with some animals that Social Democrats do not think can be described as sensual, why not just make reservations about them in the legislative notes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100832	I think it is important to be very precise when we make laws for Denmark, and we have also had this debate with each other. Now we need to have a further debate in connection with the discussion in the specialist committees. But I would like to ask here, on the platform of the Danish Parliament, whether a killer slug, for example. is a sentient being. That is where I think we should have a certain degree of seriousness in the legislation. I think the objective of this bill is very, very clear: it is about improving animal welfare in Denmark. And that is what I think is the starting point, and what we should be happy about, and then let us have the very specific discussion when we are about to legalise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100907	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100909	However, what the rapporteur has highlighted here, namely with killer snails, I had just made reservations about my question. So, if there are some individual animals that the Social Democratic Party does not think can be defined as sensory, why not make reservations for them and clearly write into section 2, that the animals that we now breed in Denmark are pigs, cows, chickens, etc. This is important to us. It is also recognised in the Treaty of Lisbon. I believe that if we are to protect and respect animals, as the rapporteur says on the platform, it is also essential that we include them in the legislation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205100946	Actually, I think the positive thing about this bill is that the price policy is actually gonna be a part of it. Actually, I think we should pay tribute to that. I do not know whether it is particularly appropriate to have long lists assigned to a bill specifically which animals are not sentient beings. I do not think we are going to have that at least. What must be quite clear, and what must be the intention, is that we treat the animals well in Denmark. I think this bill promotes that, and that is what I want to say is really, really positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101013	Then it's Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101015	There is another aspect that has not been fully dealt with in the bill here, and that is about in which case the Minister may require there to be training for the staff handling animals. As the draft law stands at present, the Minister can demand how in a pet shop there must be educational requirements in order to be able to sell goldfish and dwarf hamsters, while the Minister in production farming cannot make any demands. We have an example of mink. There has been a period in which mink felt even worse than they are now and in which it was thus demanded that those working with the minks should have some training. Now we have a legislative proposal that actually removes it from the law and does not give the Minister the authority to be able to make demands on the training of those working in primary agriculture, and I think that is a clear deterioration. So I would like the rapporteur to take a stand on that. We have some serious problems in our pig herds. This has been at the very latest, where animal welfare controls have shown that it is absolutely wrong. It is therefore important that we should also be able to demand more training.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101125	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101126	But I really don't think there's anything in this legal complex that I can immediately see impairing animal welfare in Denmark. On the contrary, it goes in and improves animal welfare by making this much simpler. Of course, we must always consider how much authority we have to give, but we are actually going into a number of places in this draft law and giving increased authority to the minister for it to be more flexible and for action to be taken, for example. if you see that the cats don't thrive very well. Then we give the Minister some increased powers. So I think this is a clear improvement, and I would like to make that clear from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101203	Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101205	Well, it's not. You might ask what it's like to tighten up on an area. The Minister for Agriculture has been out saying that he is in favour of increased control. You could also be in favour of tougher penalties. But you could also go on the positive track and help to demand more training for the people who handle our production animals in the Danish agriculture. That is the power that the Minister does not have with this bill here. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a huge problem that we do not focus more on training for people who work with our production animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101241	I understand that this is really, really important to Enhedslisten. Now it is only the first reading of the bill here today. I would like to say to Søren Egge Rasmussen that we can have a dialogue on this. Then we can continue diving into the law complex. However, I think that this is a clear improvement on animal welfare in Denmark, and that is what I think we should focus on today at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101301	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101303	Thank you. Yes, that is true, and it is good that it is said that it is a first reading and that we can go further. We look forward to this in the Danish People's Party, because we have not really been involved so far in this rather big proposal, but we will be so automatically when we go to committee if nothing else. I'd like to go a little further on about the sensory animals. I think it's kind of stupid to say, "Well, what about a killer snail?" Well, it's somehow too cheap and too easy. There, I think, is the attitude of giving animals the benefit of the doubt, rather than saying that no, we cannot, because there are therefore some killer snails ha ha! However, I think it is too easy to give examples of this when we actually raise a rather serious problem, which was also raised earlier when the proposal under the then government was also put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101357	I didn't sit there in the Folketing at the time, but Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is right that we know that many animals are sensual. When we visit the Danish farms, we can also see that a cow, for example. is sensual. We can also see at home that a dog is sensual. What is the starting point, I think, is that in Denmark we get an animal welfare that gets better with this bill than it was before. And I think that's kind of the starting point for this. But I will look forward to having a good discussion with each other during the committee's examination of this proposal, because it may also be that some of you can make your own wiser on how long that list will be in relation to non-sensing animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101438	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101440	It is good that we have a law and I will deal with that in the rapporteur's speech which is better than what we have now. But the point must also be that when we deal with it, we are doing it as well as possible instead of doing it individually. And there I look forward to hearing from the comments now that there will be a part of the opposition that would like to go ahead with this. And there I take positive note of the rapporteur's statement: well, let us just look at it. And, of course, the rapporteur and the government will be stopped on the way before the proposal comes to a final reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101516	Now I come from municipal politics. We don't have that kind of tradition of hanging each other on anything. There we have a tradition of discussing things constructively with each other... turning arguments and becoming wiser in relation to it... and it is clear that, as rapporteur for a government party, I will of course also actively and responsibly enter the committee's proceedings on such an important proposal as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101535	Then it's Zenia Stamp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101540	Mrs. Well, I'm sorry. There was a lot that I could talk in the wake of. I therefore agree with all the questions that have been raised here. And I believe that what is our common intention here is that we get a real move in terms of improving animal welfare and also the sight of animals. Now I have heard the rapporteur say several times that this bill brings about that improvement. Then I would really like to know what specific features are contained in this bill which really increases the welfare of animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101616	First of all, it is a simplification of the law. This makes it significantly better for those who have to implement the law. In fact, I see this as a very, very great improvement. And, as I said in my opening speech, I believe that it will improve animal welfare considerably, that we will also advance some of the things that may be a challenge for the future, for example. cockfight. And then we ourselves have laughed at it from this platform, at least someone did, and you yourselves have laughed a little down in the hall about the ban on wild animals in the circus, which seems to have to be implemented as early as 2020. So these are at least three very, very concrete improvements in relation to the law of Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101656	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101657	Simplifications, cockfights and elephants How many elephants were there now: two or four? And what I think there is agreement on at least those of us who have asked questions is that we want more training of staff for the many animals, not four elephants, but many millions of pigs and others. We do not see these improvements there, but I note that the rapporteur has said that a dialogue on training requirements would be desirable. I would like to confirm once again that the Social Democrats are prepared to discuss training requirements for agricultural workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101737	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101745	There is no question in relation to a committee procedure that is sacred to us. I also think that we should welcome the fact that there is a great deal of commitment from this House today to make animal conditions even better than they are today. I think we should take that down positively in the Chamber. And then I'll just have to say to Zenia Stampe Mrs. Zenia Stampe, I'm sorry, sir. President. - Whether it is 1 elephant or 4 elephants, or whether it is 1,000 cats or 1 cat for that matter, then animals must be treated properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101807	Thank you. When it comes to direct speech, sir. and Mrs, but when you give the floor, you can only say the name. That is why I shall now give the floor to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101817	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I have a specific question for homeless cats. After all, we have a lot of cats running homeless and hugging around and not getting enough food. Does this bill allow a measure to be taken to capture homeless cats, sterilize them, feed them up and let them out again, to minimise the number of bad cat lives in the long run?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101846	After all, the draft law has now been put forward openly, so the rapporteur can tell us about that here too. The bill gives the Minister increased authority to go in and look at the issue. The rapporteur then raises the whole question of cats, and this is a discussion that has been held in the Chamber in the past. I have to say that I get worried when you see that people of flesh and blood can leave cats in rest places and that they can put cats in bogs and all sorts of other things. It's not very flattering to look at. That is why I myself have also started a discussion with the animals' protection that I would like to see one of these internationals. What is just the challenge when we discuss here quite specifically whether or not there should be a law on cats, but we can have that discussion with each other, I think, is how to legislate in relation to a stray cat. This will present some very clear challenges, but with this bill we give the Minister the authority to go in further and tighten up if needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101946	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205101947	Thank you. That sounds very appealing, I think. What I am thinking in concrete terms is that you can capture the cats, sterilize them and let them out again. So it's not a law against just throwing cats away from home, because that obviously doesn't have to happen. So the question is specific about the sterilization project, which will of course cost some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102010	I have to admit that on the almost 200 pages of the bill, I am not quite keen on the exact sterilisation. But the Minister has to go to the end, so it may be that the rapporteur can put the question to the Minister and become completely, quite wise of that passage, but otherwise it is also something that we can put committee questions to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102028	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102040	Thank you. In the Left, we also give priority to animal welfare and we support the bill as it stands and vote in favour of it. And then we think it's good that the case of elephants, sea lions and zebras in the circus has now settled. There has been a lot of debate about this. But it's a good thing we're gonna get this done. Then it is also good that the animal struggles are banned and that the clipboard system for animal transport, which has created inappropriate discrimination, is abolished. Animals are living beings, and animal welfare must be in order and a high priority. And then it is also essential that legislation is made more transparent, and it is useful for everyone who works in the area and with animals in the day-to-day lives. And as already indicated, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102129	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102132	Thank you. We understand that the main purpose of the new legislation is to simplify and that there are no substantive changes as such, but the precautionary principle is nevertheless removed in relation to drowning. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur what he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102152	It almost goes without saying. Killing by drowning is not something anyone likes. Neither do we. I am quite sure that the legislation that is now in place will also address this issue, otherwise we will certainly be able to clarify it specifically in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102210	Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102212	I am very pleased to hear that, because it is precisely with the new version that the precautionary principle that has been laid down is removed. So I am very much in favour of that answer and I look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102222	Then I think we'll move on to mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102227	It is true that, as the draft law now stands, it opens up the possibility of killing an animal by drowning. So I'm thinking, what kind of animals do you imagine drowning? Are those the killer snails? Then it could have been written that it only applied to killer snails. Why open the door to killing cats, dogs and other animals by drowning? That is the doubt that comes when a legislative proposal is not precise enough. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the educational requirements of primary agriculture. With this bill, as long as there is an operator, he has the whole responsibility for a huge crew. As the draft law is now drafted, the Minister cannot go in and demand that agricultural workers should take on, for example: a short education. We have, for example. some pig herds where we have major problems and where we have ambitions to reduce the use of antibiotics. Can the rapporteur not see that it would be reasonable if the Minister could say: when we are going to have to reduce the use of antibiotics, we have to send people on a weekly course? The minister doesn't get that power with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102337	One can understand from the debate that there is a desire to clarify and clarify what is up and down when it comes to what one can and must demand in relation to the educational requirements. That's fine. That is what we have the legal procedure for, that is to say, to clarify it. I have indicated on behalf of the Left that we can support the bill as it stands, but it is good to have these things clarified. Once they have been clarified, we can then deal with it, including what are already the rules in force. Then you can take it from there in the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102404	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102405	That sounds good, because experience has been gained in making training requirements for those who handle mink production, and this has meant an improvement. Now we have other livestock where there are problems with disease and high mortality, and it could be that one could be inspired to go through education as well. There it is, then, that the bill here does not authorize the Minister to make such arrangements. And I am glad that the rapporteur is, in this way, open to us to come to the conclusion that this should also apply to primary agriculture. So thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102438	There is one last with a brief remark that has been noted to me, and that is Anders Kronborg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102444	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for his comments. I have a question. One of the first agreements I made with the rapporteur over in the ministry was the agreement, which was a little like this from the last period, on these four circus elephants, where we made an agreement that these circus elephants should be treated better. They had been standing for many months, and they did not feel as we were told very well. And in fact, compared to these four circus elephants, we managed to make a proposal by a broad majority, in fact all the parties in the Folketing were behind this proposal. And then I have just subsequently noted that the President of the Left, the former minister, has been out calling this agreement on the four circus elephants completely out of proportion. So I just want to know if the rapporteur agrees with his President that the agreement he has made is completely out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102543	I do not remember now that the wording of our President sounded exactly like that. And then I can say that, as a good Liberal, I always support my President, but I do not remember the wording in that way. And I can only confirm that at the beginning of this, we got sensible agreements and balances in terms of getting the circus elephants together, so all in all, it seems to be going down that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102606	Here you go, Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102608	I am pleased that the rapporteur confirms that this was a good agreement. I also think that it was landed in a good atmosphere with respect for each other and respect for each other's views, both in respect for the circus in Denmark and in respect for the four circus elephants. That's what Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen has been criticizing, is the price compared to these four circus elephants. And here I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the 7 million. kr. was something that was laid down in the bourgeois Finance Act in the last period.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102640	Well, as good Leftmen, we do not think that things should be more expensive than necessary, and we have then been able to see that after the change of government the price had to rise slightly. But what this is all about is that the matter will be settled at the end of the day. I always agree with my President, and I think that is a wise tactic, and then when we get the case the country too, we can all be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102700	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205102711	The bill is, after all, an almost unchanged re-presentation of L 192 from the spring, which was not finalised before the parliamentary elections. The Danish People's Party certainly supports the intentions of the proposal to make a regulatory simplification in this area. It is good that 14 current laws are reduced to 3 and that the number of notices is reduced from 40 to approx. 20. It is more user-friendly to bring many laws into one law, and most of the laws are simply carried on in this new bill. It is good that the law will change its name from having previously been called the Animal Protection Act to now having to be called the Animal Welfare Act. It is more in line with time and signals a different view of animals today than in the past. One might say that in the past the sight of animals was to be guarded against ill treatment and cruelty to animals; now the aim is to treat animals properly. In relation to the bill which the Danish Parliament dealt with in the spring, the purpose of the Act has been extended and clarified in Section 1. The previous version was too vague, and now it's better. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Act are the basis of the law. They are the starting point for how animals should be treated and all subsequent paragraphs should be seen in the light of them. As mentioned, it is good that § 1 has changed for the better, but § 2 remains unchanged. The Danish People's Party wants the provision to be clarified so that it is established that animals are living and sensory beings that must be treated securely and protected as far as possible from pain, suffering, anxiety, lasting harm and significant disadvantage. So the addition is that animals are also sentient beings. This is something we have discussed before, and in fact it can be a negative surprise, I think the Minister has not taken it with him this time. Several organisations point to the same in their consultation responses. I hope that the Minister himself will be accommodating and make amendments or concessions on this addition; otherwise others will have to do so. We would like to see you inserted before your behavior and health needs. Here too, if the Minister does not make the concession of the addition himself, we will be tabling amendments. The bill contains many ministerial powers. The Minister is thus given the right to issue notices in many areas. One of these areas is expressed in Section 25 paragraph of the Bill. 2 where the Minister is empowered to lay down rules on the killing, including the slaughter, of animals. I assume that the Decree on the slaughter and killing of animals from 2014 will continue to apply. It contains in §§9-11 rules for slaughtering after religious rituals, and those rules have been improved after many years of discussion. I take it with me, even though it is not directly in the draft law, because I think it actually belongs to me. There is a widespread desire for consumers to be able to see whether the meat they buy has been slaughtered ritually or not, i.e. a labelling system. Furthermore, it might be good for the Minister to be able to provide the public with information about the fees paid by companies for halal certificates and the like, as these charges finance various Islamic activities. I call on the Minister to legalise the labelling of ritually slaughtered meat and to create transparency as to what the money for halal certificates is going to do. The last point I know is a little outside the scope of the draft law, but since we are dealing with this very big proposal, I think it should actually be included, because there are so many ministerial powers that it must be fair to talk about one of the announcements which many citizens are undoubtedly concerned with. Overall, the draft law is good, and the Danish People's Party is also in favour of the further work of the committee, of course, on the proposals for amendments and improvements which I have pointed out and which I have already heard other rapporteurs point out. So I hope that we will have a very good proposal on animal welfare in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103131	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103134	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think that this debate on whether animals should be regarded as living and sensory beings is essential. It is as if there has been some kind of desk work where you have imagined an animal in which you were in doubt whether it was a sentient being. And then you didn't want it to happen. This law mainly concerns the animals we have in Danish agriculture. And when you have 30 million pigs, just to take one animal group, it is essential that you have a law that has a main aim on it, instead of having a debate where you talk most about elephants. So I think it is really gratifying that we can continue to work and discuss further whether we should improve this bill. In the Enhedslisten, we support both the fact that animals are sensory beings and also the natural needs that the rapporteur mentions as another change. We can also fully support this in the Enhedslisten. So thank you for that message.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103234	You're welcome. I am only happy if a majority can be formed for us to get some significant concessions into this bill, and there is the Danish People's Party quite ready. I also feel the opportunity to say that it has been said about drowning, which is now being deleted from this proposal. And I do agree with that too that why? I simply do not understand that. It is also on the grounds that it is not really possible to find out which animals are to be counted under it. And I think it's very, very difficult to assess which animals really feel suffering. I don't know how much evidence there is for that. However, I think it is best to give the animals the benefit of the doubt, no matter what animal it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103316	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103317	Well, I agree with that, because when it says as it stands, there is, in fact, an opening to drowning animals. It will of course be important for people to know if they have to put beer traps in their gardens to kill killer snails without getting into carambola with legislation. Well, that's important to know. But there will be plenty of other cases where some might put some animals in a bag and throw them into a lake, and where there must be clear lines so that it is not legal. If you pass the law as it is now, it would be legal to drown all animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103351	Well, I think that is a very, very special thing about this proposal, that is to say that it is being opened up to it. I do not agree with that, and I think we should continue to work on it in committee and perhaps also there to create a majority to ensure that we simply do not accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103405	Then it's Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103407	Thank you. For many years the Danish People's Party has regarded itself as the protector of the animals and among others. also used cute dogs in their advertising campaigns... an animal that intelligently resembles the pig very much. In Denmark, however, we breed and slaughter more than 30 million pigs a year, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also said before, and only 2-3 per cent. of the Danish pigs are organic or open-air pigs. The vast majority are thus confined in pig factories, and more than one in six sow succumbs and never manages to carry out the planned production life, but is killed or found dead in the stable. More than 24,000 piglets die daily, primarily from cold, thirst or being squeezed by the sow, and one third of the pigs for fattening and half of the lakes develop stomach ulcers before they reach the slaughterhouse, and in addition a great deal of acute bleeding stomach ulcers die. I just want to hear from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard whether she has as much urge to help the pigs as she has to help the dogs, and whether she believes that the new law we are discussing here will basically deal with the major problems that there are in Danish agriculture today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103518	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103519	Well, there I make no difference, and especially pigs are said to be very, very clever animals. So are dogs, but pigs are shell Carl Valentin, are some we need to be aware of, also in relation to agriculture. I will not spare agriculture alone. I think that I nevertheless feel the opportunity to say that agriculture has been paying a great deal of attention to this for a long time now, and that is what we must have made even more aware of. Because, of course, we should not accept the figures that Mr. Carl Valentin came out with this. There are stomach ulcers, and there are very, very many things that we certainly do not like in relation to the pigs, too, other production animals. I think that we can discuss this in committee too: what are we doing in relation to these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103611	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103612	Thank you for that answer. I think it's a pretty significant attitude to take the pigs' woe and probably as seriously as the dogs', but I share it. But it will also mean that we have to make quite a lot of improvements. Today pigs are entitled to 0.65 m2 to stand on. It is not in any way a life that we would offer a dog, and in reality there are very many pigs who suffer a terrible fate in Danish agriculture today. So I look forward to working with the Danish People's Party to improve this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103643	We just need to be aware that we need to find a good balance in agriculture, in animal welfare and in the fact that there is therefore also production. So I have to say that, because that is the way it is, and we cannot just say to agriculture that there are now enormously tough rules which mean that our production is going down substantially at once. However, I fully agree that we must, of course, also look at this area, and of course we must. But I just don't want to make it clear that we are just doing this over a broad bank, because I just don't think it serves agriculture and thus all of us who have a very, very great advantage in many, many areas compared to Danish agriculture, where I also feel that there is sensitivity. And that must also be the case in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103725	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205103736	Thank you. It is a good thing that this law is simplifying, but what some of us would like to see was that there was also a real improvement. There is protection welfare and yet here we are discussing whether we can put in a word like sensing because there are some snails, insects and worms that have not yet been proven to have a sensory apparatus, that is, whether it is a reflex that makes them fly again if they land on a hob or if it is their sensory apparatus. That is so supposedly the explanation that we cannot write in that animals are sensual, knowing that by far the largest part of the regulation that lies in this law and that will lie in the form of announcements will be about vertebrates that have a sensory apparatus. And that is why we fully agree with the questioners who have already highlighted the point of getting the word sensual into the paragraph of purpose. Something else which has also been asked, and which is also very important to us, and which is why I cannot say today what we are voting on, is the demand for education. And when I put a question to the Socialist rapporteur about what improvements are there and I am told that there is something about cockfights and something about elephants, it is not to neglect the welfare of four elephants and the cocks that may now be spared from cockfights. Then it's to point out that it's pretty small numbers we're talking about. But when we talk about production animals we have just talked about pigs here, and that is also true of chickens and mink, it is of course millions of animals who have an equally well-developed sensory apparatus, as well as the cocks who are now not going to take part in the cockfight. That is why I do not think we are getting a proper move on this legislation. In other words, we are making some relatively symbolic improvements for a very, very small number of animals, but we are not using this legislation as a lever to increase the welfare of the millions of animals from which we are currently producing skins or meat. And the main appeal we therefore have against the bill is in relation to the training. I know that it already follows from the agreement on veterinary conciliation III, which we are part of, that training requirements should no longer be imposed on staff on mink farms. I just have to say that there must be some negotiations and some other things we have had, but I think that is a pity. And what I find particularly regrettable is that this law deprives us of the possibility of introducing such training requirements. It may be that it has been removed now, but that even disclaims the possibility of it, I think it is a pity, but that is how I understand the legislation and the consultation answers that have been given and the consultation note that the Ministry has handed in, namely that the Minister has no opportunity to go in and lay down requirements for the staff. It is particularly critical of mink, because mink is a very special animal to have in captivity. It is a wild animal and therefore there have been huge problems with animal welfare in relation to mink, and it was as a direct response to the problems that this training requirement was introduced for mink farmers. Now it is being removed as a kind of harmonisation with the rest of the area. But we could also harmonise in a different way instead of harmonising by reducing animal welfare, of course, by setting it up, for example. introduce training requirements in relation to pig farming, which is something that was also discussed in the action plan for pigs, which is no more than a few years old. It is from 2015, so it is 4-5 years old, but it is still living away, so to speak. There is the possibility of introducing training requirements for staff, that is to say not only the staff responsible, but also the daily staff who carry the pigs out there. It has been mentioned as an opportunity to be discussed, but it is then written off by this law. That is why I am not going to tell you today what we are voting on. This depends on the committee procedure and we will place great emphasis on the fact that this law does not deprive us of the possibility of introducing training requirements for staff around agriculture, mink farms and so on. I think that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205104201	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205104211	Thank you. I must apologise in advance if I am messing up a bit, because I have lost one contact lens, so I can hardly read what I have written myself. But then we can start with some of what's on the spine. After all, this is a legislative proposal which makes some regulatory simplification and which, to that extent, has actually been on the agenda before. In the spring, when I was not yet in the Folketing, a proposal was made for animal welfare legislation, and in this context the Animal Protection Act said the following: "If the new law is adopted in its present form, then the keys to animal welfare may as well be handed over to the agricultural organisations. I had a meeting with Animal Protection on 21 November, and fortunately they do not feel that way with the new animal welfare bill that has been put forward. Some improvements have been made. Among other things: some of the amendments that we and the Enhedslist tabled in connection with the previous legislative proposal have been included, and we are very, very pleased and very, very positive about that. But there is also room for improvement. In order to follow up on the previous issues and discussions that have been going on, the FDA came with their animal welfare report not very long ago, when again it became very clear that it is in pig production and cattle production that we have the really big problems with animal welfare in Denmark. That is why we do not really understand in the SF why this proposal for an animal welfare law does not go all the way and fully guarantee animal welfare, including for production animals. Why do we remove the possibility for the Minister to impose training requirements when it is precisely in the production of pig herds and cattle herds that we have the major animal welfare problems? It is of no use that the people who work with this don't know what they're doing. They need to know what they do when they work with animals, just as people need to know what they do when they work in our hospitals and take care of sick people, just as you need to know what you do when you teach the education system. Surely that is the way forward for our way of discussing animal welfare. In the SF we also do not understand why the possibility of killing animals by drowning has been opened up. I do not imagine that anyone would be incredibly sad about it in Production Denmark if they were no longer allowed to go out and drown a bag of kittens, so why not go all the way and ensure animal welfare fully when we are in the process? I really would like that, and that is why, unfortunately, the SF cannot really tell us what we are going to vote for this bill today. But, of course, we are very much looking forward to the committee reading, because there are extremely positive tones among the questioners in the Chamber. That is why we hope that a majority can be created for some of the proposals already mentioned in the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205104527	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there are no brief comments, we thank Mr. President and can go further in the rapporteur's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205104539	Thank you. I have been involved in examining the forerunner of this proposal and in these processes in tabling 22 amendments to the previous draft law. I can also see that there are some things that have been accepted, but we are not quite there, and that is why I am looking forward to the committee procedure that we are going to have. We would like to take part in tabling a number of amendments on some points. We also think that when we have such a debate here, we should bear in mind that there are some people in agriculture who voluntarily go beyond the minimum requirements. That's one of them. What we see in the ecological rules, in which we sort of go in and take account of the fact that animals are sensory beings who have natural needs, and try to make rules for cattle, for example. We have to have 150 days of grass a year, because we have higher requirements as to how much area an organic animal should have in organic farming. So there are farmers who go further, and there are farmers who are also working to focus on the fact that animal welfare on their farms is better than what is a minimum. In this debate about whether animals are sensory beings, I would say that when you have worked in agriculture and have experienced letting cattle out on grass and giving them a new fold, and when you have tried to put ear tags in a kid, you have no doubt that the production animals we have are sensory beings. That is, of course, what we need to deal with in such legislation here, and I think it is perfectly natural that we should get it in. Animals also have some natural needs, and we cannot say what to fully meet them, but by focusing on the fact that animals have natural needs, we can help to ensure a better standard of production farming. Then we have this thing about the training requirement. It is a bit grotesque, then, that with this bill the Minister is given the power to make educational demands on people who work in a pet shop and have to deal with a few goldfish and some dwarf hamsters who are being sold, but that the Minister is not able to make educational demands on agriculture with the bill. When you look at the problems that exist, among other things. is in our pig production with 30 million pigs, and when we have ambitions to reduce the use of antibiotics, it is quite natural that a minister should be able to make educational demands. It is not, of course, because it needs to be multi-annual training; it can be short courses that must be carried out in order to be allowed to work with pigs. I think that would be quite natural. When you look at the latest animal welfare check and how the standard is in the pig stalls and what is being observed there by poor management of sick animals, there is certainly a long way to go and there is certainly a need for more than the operator who has training. So with the latest reports that have been, I think it is obvious that not only are we thinking in more control and tougher penalties, but that we are also handling it positively and saying that more education can also be something that helps solve problems. This is the recognition which I hope there will be a majority in the Folketing that will arrive at so that there will be more power for the Minister on this point, so that the Minister will have the power to be able also to demand that agricultural workers have some training. Then I also hope that we will end this opportunity to kill animals by drowning. If it's killer snails you have to allow people to kill in their gardens with a beer trap, you can write in such exceptions. Why open the door to drowning any animal? I don't understand. Then we are going into something where, in the production industry, we have a situation where agriculture, like it, has to pay for its own control. I think that is actually fair, and I do not think it is right that aquaculture should then pay for the controls that we have on that part of food production. I cannot understand that, and this is another point where we in the Enhedslist want some changes to be made. This bill is really important, and if you think about it, this bill concerns a lot of millions of animals. This includes the consideration of several million animals, more than the 5 million people to whom the constitution relates. That is why this is an important legislative proposal, and it should not just be made to make a merger so that there is no special law for turkeys for fattening. That's not where the focus should be. Now we have a chance to make some improvements. I also recognise that we have made some progress with regard to the purpose clause of the law. I just think that we should have a final process in which we should do even better, and I am listening to the fact that there could be a majority in the Folketing who would be involved. I very much look forward to this being dealt with in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105040	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105043	Thank you. After all, this will be one of the complexes that I look forward to discussing very much in the Committee on Trade and Industry, because there will be a lot of exciting input. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentions the training requirement here, and I just need to make sure that I've understood it correctly. I haven't been in here for that long, I was elected here on 5 June, but when I read up on this case, I can see that it was in veterinary conciliation III that you actually went in and removed this authority to make training requirements for the employees, among other things. Out in the furry animal industry. Have I understood correctly that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen himself has been involved in an agreement quite recently, where he has helped to remove the authority in relation to an educational requirement which he is now standing on the parliamentary platform and problematizing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105134	Well, it has been a training requirement, as was the case in the veterinary conciliation procedure, and I was not the rapporteur in that area at the time, so I have not sat at those meetings and had the chance to speak against it. It can be said that this draft law confirms that agreement by saying that it should apply to all production animals, that there is no possibility of the Minister laying down training requirements. I think this is a little strange, because it is true that progress has been made by having training requirements in the fur animal industry. With the problems we have in Danish pig farming, I think that we should be inspired by it and, like, look at whether there is no possibility that we should not just go for more control and harder penalties. Could not the training of some staff also be something that could benefit animal welfare? I think so. For the reality out there is that you can actually have a large pig herd, where there are employees from three different continents and perhaps not speak so much of the same language.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105236	Sir. Anders Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105240	Of course, I fully understand that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has not previously been the rapporteur in this area, but I know that Enhedslisten has some pretty real group meetings where things are really, really well discussed. Just to get smarter, what I'm really looking for maybe is that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen can tell me about it without going into details why it was a little over a year ago that one could agree to relax the training requirement and the authority in relation to it, and then this one and a half years later is a major problem? I fully acknowledge that this is something we need to discuss, but it could be that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen could make me a little smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105314	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105316	But I do not think the rapporteur is aware of our group meetings; he has never visited it. There has been a single Social Democrat once, but it was because she was the leader of the Social Democratic Party. So I do not think that much has gone on to the rapporteur. I think I'm trying to contribute with the knowledge and experience I have. I can see that something has happened at a meeting where Enhedslisten has also participated and where I think the conclusion should have been another, but I am perfectly entitled to think so. I will do everything in my power to ensure that animal welfare is a priority and, in relation to the issue of training requirements, I have listened to the fact that more people understand that education can actually be something that solves problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105353	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105359	Thank you for that, President. L 80 is, of course, a re-submission of L 192, and at the time when we were discussing the proposal 22 amendments were received. So the bill has been through a reading, we can say, in the first place, and now it has been retabled. As a starting point, the aim of the draft law here is, of course, to implement a simplification in practice, as has been said earlier. And the bill then introduces a new main law, replacing the current animal protection law, which is a framework law for the vast majority of animal welfare legislation with the aim of promoting animal welfare and respect for animals as living beings. The law also provides for animal welfare as well as animal ethical considerations. It's incorporated into the law. And then there are animal species-specific laws in the field of animal welfare that are being repealed. And the material provisions that are currently in force, as set out in the laws repealed, are incorporated into the new animal welfare law, including the corresponding decree on the basis of the law. So I would just like to say, with regard to the sensory animals, that it is written in the notice that it is recognised that there are sensory animals. So it is not the case that in the legal complex here there is no recognition that there are sensory animals. And then I think we should also be aware that when we legislate, we can write our way out of a lot, but if we do not have confidence in the work of the people who have to do with animals in the daily professional work, then as legislators we must say that we really have a problem. So for the Conservative People's Party, it is the case that, as a starting point, we have confidence in the people who work with animals. And our animal welfare law, which is designed here, is, in fact, a manual on how we as legislators see the area. The Conservative People's Party supports L 80 and votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105639	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105641	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party will be working with the parties that have now mentioned here that we think that the precautionary principle should be continued in relation to drowning. Will Conservatives stand with the parties that have pressed here and press the government to take it as part of the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105702	I note that, since L 192 was tabled with 22 amendments, we have come a very long way in this matter, which has now been retabled as L 80. When the Minister has put this forward here, it is also in line with the work of the previous government, and the Conservative People's Party supports the bill as it stands here, and we will, of course, go to committee with open forehead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105728	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105730	One can of course support the draft law as it stands and think that one can vote in favour, but at the same time also work for some improvements to it in committee. That is why I would like to repeat my question: does the Conservative People's Party want us to make it part of the legislation that there remains a clear precautionary principle in relation to the ban on drowning?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105753	I would like to reiterate to the rapporteur that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill which has now been dealt with with 22 amendments in the old L 192. It has been worked through, and Enhedslisten was also involved in the legal work earlier. The legislative proposal that is on the table here is supported by the Conservative People's Party and, of course, we come to committee with open foreheads.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105821	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105823	Thank you. I'm a little surprised, too. Has the Conservative People's Party already given a commitment in advance to the Socialist Government that this is just being supported unconditionally? Because that is what it sounds like, and I think that is a pity, especially in relation to the considerations that have been made here, which I think are quite reasonable and which one might imagine the Minister had also listened to. There is, of course, a majority in the House, so I think it is so much stuck that the Conservative People's Party is just saying that this is what they support. It's good enough as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105857	I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that I have been working on this bill for a long time and have been attending several meetings, including committee meetings. So it is nothing new that we are discussing here today. There are also many good ideas coming out in the new assembly we are sitting with here. I am just saying that the Conservative People's Party can be trusted and we support what is now before us. And if there are any changes in the committee work that make us wiser, we can shape, and then we can get along too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105928	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205105929	So I just have to ask: is this an undertaking made in relation to this proposal or the previous proposal that was made under the previous government? 'Cause it doesn't matter right now. It has been pushed away, and now a new legislative proposal has been put forward, to which the rapporteur and, incidentally, all of us in this House must relate. It would be too easy and too toothless if a new government simply put forward all those proposals that were just there and that had not been reached. Of course you try to make your mark on it. I understand the Socialist Government very well there. And when, at the same time, there are a great many rapporteurs who say: yes, yes, the way we are going looks good, but we need to bring this in, then I just think it sounds rather static to put it bluntly that the Conservative People's Party says: we said yes in the previous session of another government, so we also say yes now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110017	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110020	Yes, but I would just like to say to the questioner that being static can be very good. The Conservative People's Party is some that you can trust, and that means that when you sit and negotiate and go through the bill, there is not so much difference between L 192 and L 80. I just repeat: if something comes up in the work of the committee, that is also true in relation to the parties that have several new proposals... then the Conservative People's Party is prepared to discuss it and ready to include it if it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110047	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110049	Thank you. I would just like to comment briefly and say that I think that the bourgeois friends are a little hard on the rapporteur, because what I hear is that I have to say that we are going to work together and that, of course, a commitment is being made that we are now going constructively into the process, and of course we are very happy about that from the Social Democrats. I do not hear a carte blanche being given to the government, and I hope the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110121	Yes, I can at any rate confirm that the Conservative People's Party has not been called for negotiations with the Minister, where we have been asked whether we had any comments on the bill. So whether it was the case that we had something we would have included or something we would have deleted; that has not happened, so it is not there that the Conservative starting point is. The legislative proposal before us is what we have decided on, in other words, as it is on paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110145	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110152	Thank you. After all, it is a legislative proposal which simplifies and makes legislation more transparent in relation to animal welfare, and the aim is and must be to promote animal welfare and respect for animals as living beings. It is a collection of small laws which enable us to adapt more quickly and flexibly to developments in animal welfare, and which the Minister will be empowered to adjust in the light of new knowledge and practical experience and research. So my question to the Minister is: how are animal welfare organisations to be involved in the negotiations on changes of rules of a more or less intrusive nature? The alternative is very positive about the fact that the animal welfare law, with basic provisions on the sound and caring handling of animals, operational intervention and sale and the display of animals, ensures that animals are taken care of. Killing should be looked at more. In the alternative, we cannot accept that animals can be drowned either in particular or in general. Transport of animals is also a very important theme. There have been many bad cases ahead, so it is also important to look at. In relation to livestock production, it is a huge area with massive numbers of animals where we are far from the fact that animal conditions are close to their natural way of life and behaviour. We cannot at this stage pay total tribute to this, but it is also very important that the Minister should be given the opportunity to impose training on all those involved in livestock farming. In relation to stray cats, which count a lot of animals, we will also bring the opportunity to capture the stray cats and sterilize them, feed them up and put them back into the negotiations. So, without prejudice to our position on drowning and training and the involvement of animal welfare organisations, we would like to enter into further discussions on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110407	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110415	Thank you for the floor. New citizens support proposals to simplify the legislative structure in the field of animal welfare, thereby making legislation more transparent and user-friendly in practice. However, I would like to stress that New Citizens have the basic idea that new animal welfare rules must always be implemented with a time horizon and an economic framework that respects the high level of investment in the agricultural and food industry. The main objective of Bill L 80 is the structural change of legislation in the field of animal welfare. This is therefore primarily a legislative exercise which does not involve serious changes and New Citizens can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110458	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110508	Thank you for the floor. L 80 is, of course, a simplification of the existing rules, and it is a matter of course also of animal welfare that has always been of great concern to us in LA. That is why we support the legislative proposal, just as we supported the previous proposal in the previous parliamentary term, which resembled this proposal almost confused. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110540	A brief comment was made at the last minute. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110545	Thank you. Now, after all, the Liberal Alliance is a party that is very concerned about personal freedom, and I think that is actually an important value. In this context, I would also just like to hear whether the Liberal Alliance agrees with the idea of entering into legislation that animals have the right to live out their natural behaviour, because it is, in fact, the ultimate personal freedom of an animal, that is, the right to live out the behavior that it now has in nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110614	But animals are not people, and therefore the question of personal freedom is not a question of animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110622	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110626	One can certainly have a long discussion about this, but although one sees animals as persons or as individuals, it is living, sensory beings who now have a whole lot of different needs, just as people have. Nor should we forget that we are also just animals. So I actually think that the discussion about personal freedom is also relevant when we talk about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110650	I wrote an article in a Danish newspaper 20 years ago warning against letting Walt Disney's natural view override Danish legislation. It annoys me that I cannot quote from it out of my head, because I think it would be appropriate right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110707	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205110715	Thank you for your consideration, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the various contributions and the proposals that have also been made. As we can see, this is a legislative proposal which has been under way for some time now, and while I have been a minister, I can at least say that we have held a number of meetings with the rapporteurs on the draft law, where there was an opportunity to come up with proposals and ideas. I should also like to say that all the parties in the Folketing were invited to these meetings, so the opportunity has certainly been there to play some part in the process before the draft law was tabled. And that's the way it's supposed to be. What lies in this is that the bill is presented as a new main law to replace the current animal protection law. As the animal welfare law that we have been working on for the last 30 years is old, it is therefore also time for us to have a new, modern animal welfare law that takes into account the fact that we live in a changing world where there is a need for an ongoing adaptation of the rules in this area, so that we can ensure the best conditions for our animals in Denmark. As has also been said from up here, the aim of the draft law is, in general, to simplify the legislative structure in the field of animal welfare, and the new law will thus be a framework law for the vast majority of animal welfare legislation. We propose the repeal of a number of species-specific laws in this area, and instead the rules will be laid down and continued in new species-specific regulations based on the law. That's going to make us reduce it from 11 laws and approx. 40 regulations to 1 animal welfare law and approx. Twenty notices in this area. And it is important for me to stress that the intention of the draft law and the new regulatory structure in the future is merely to continue the content of the applicable laws and the restrictions contained in the applicable laws in notices. So the answer to the debate that has been about whether to ensure the same level as was in the various laws, in the notices, is: yes, that is the starting point, and then there are a number of areas where we will also make some improvements. With this bill it will be easier to learn about the rules that apply to a particular species. For example. In future, you will be able to find the rules on pigs in a single regulation for pigs, where, as it is now, you will have to enter three laws and more notices in order to get an overview of the rules. After all, the time perspective for this law is that a bill was tabled earlier this year and that, in fact, a number of external expert forums were set up already in 2016 which have made statements on the structure of future legislation in this area, and the draft law has been based on those recommendations. In addition, however, it also reflects the fact that many in this Chamber have made proposals which have been incorporated into the text of the proposal. So it is my view that with this proposal for a new animal welfare law, we will have a well-worked legislation based on the solid experience that needs to be gained, so that we can also accommodate the animal welfare of the future, and there are a lot of stones that we have turned around along the way. The new animal welfare law and regulatory structure require the repeal of the applicable section 4 paragraph. 2 in the Animal Protection Act, which states that particularly intrusive rules affecting agriculture must be laid down by law. The aim of abolishing it and, instead, extending the use of powers by which more rules can be laid down administratively, i.e. in notices, is to ensure a more dynamic regulatory process in the future, so that every time there is a political desire to change something of a practical nature, we do not have to have legislative changes and this whole process. It is the whole requirement of the draft law and the basic idea of the new regulatory structure that the rules should be able to be amended in a more flexible way in future, so that the rules on animal welfare at all times reflect the latest knowledge we have and we get new research, new knowledge about things that can improve animal welfare, can be incorporated quickly. As has already been discussed, the law contains, as a new provision of purpose, which basically states that the aim of the law is to promote good animal welfare, including the protection of animals and the promotion of respect for animals. In addition to the animal welfare considerations, which are clearly at the heart of this issue, it is also emphasised in the objective clause that animal ethical aspects are an element in today's understanding of good animal welfare. So it is a comprehensive legislative proposal, but it is also an important issue. Our animals, as the proposal deals with our livestock, our pets and the animals that live freely in the wild, must be treated with respect and care. It's our responsibility. And as I started by saying, it's a 30-year-old law that this new law replaces. It is time for a modern law which lays down the framework both for the protection of animals and for the promotion of good animal welfare. It will also be a law that will both be more useful because it creates a better overview, and foresight, because it will be able to accommodate the fact that we live in a changing world. So I thank you for your comments and look forward to the committee reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111404	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111413	I am also looking forward to the committee reading and I would like to thank you for the improvements that have been made to the law so far. But it is, of course, the risk when you make a legislative proposal as a minister that there may be some in the Folketing who will do better than the legislative proposal that is, and that is the process that we have now. I look forward to that very much. The Minister draws attention to the need to involve new knowledge. Here recently, after an animal welfare check in the pig stalls, a statement was made which stated: "Completely unacceptable that more than one in three farmers were sanctioned and that there was an increase in the most serious violations when the FDA was on animal welfare check in the pig stalls in 2018.· This is what the Minister for Food, Mogens Jensen, has said, which foreshadows a significant increase in control of the pig industry. ▪ Control can be good. It may also be fine sometimes to have higher penalties, but can the Minister not see that more education could also be a means of achieving better animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111512	There is no doubt that when you need to improve animal welfare and ensure animal welfare, among other things. Out in our stables, of course, it takes the employees who are out there to know what they're dealing with. That is why the starting point is also that the person responsible for the holding must ensure that those who work with the animals have the necessary skills to be able to do so properly. So there is a clear responsibility on the part of the farm manager, who must, of course, have the training needed to have that responsibility. So I actually see that covered in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111558	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111609	Thank you. I am well aware of what the law says that there is a farm manager who is responsible for the employees who are on the farm. But now that the Minister has been out to comment with some conclusions on animal welfare controls, which are about more control, and it has also been noted that there is a problem. We also have a challenge with the fact that we have to reduce the use of antibiotics on the individual farm. can't the Minister see that it might be an advantage that it is more than the head of the farm, who, as such, has a professional knowledge when it comes to dealing with so many millions of animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111647	Yes, but I would also just like to say that, as the quote from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, I am clearly and strongly dissatisfied with the fact that it has not been possible to improve animal welfare in pig stalls to a greater extent. We will look at doing more about that. And, of course, there are people other than the head of the farm who must have the necessary qualifications to deal with the animals. It is just the manager's responsibility that this is the way things are. So there is a responsibility for that, and one of the roads I agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is of course ensuring that employees have the right qualifications, including knowledge about e.g. antibiotics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111723	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111727	Now I have here a very good action plan on animal welfare for pigs, which was drawn up at the time of the Minister's colleague Mr. Dan Jørgensen was Minister for Food. That's one of them. the one who mentions in this action plan the possibility of looking at the training of staff of these pig herds. That is why I should like to know whether it really is the position of the Social Democratic Party that we should write off or that the Minister should write off the possibility of making training requirements for staff, for example. the operation of pig populations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111808	Well, I agree with that, as my reply to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that of course you have to make sure that the employees who are out there have the right qualifications. I am also convinced that one of the challenges may well be at present, that in some places it is not the case that the level of knowledge can be improved. We then place a clear responsibility for this by the fact that the manager of the holding in question is responsible for ensuring that there are qualified staff. This is one of the tools that agriculture will have to resort to and will use when we look forward to seeing more about how we can ensure that the welfare improvements for pigs that we have promised are met. But I also have faith that agriculture itself will help to do so. But we can at least ensure that the manager has the necessary training and also the responsibility for the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111907	Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111910	Yes, but we can see that there are indeed breaches of animal welfare in many of the inspections carried out, I think I saw a statement stating that it was on one in three inspections. That is why I think it points in the direction of a general problem. Moreover, as far as I can understand, only one visit every five to ten years, and if it is one in three who has problems, then that would suggest that control is not the way forward unless it is to be spread by many, many more percent. That's why I just don't understand why the government won't even give itself the opportunity to get smarter and then introduce these training requirements. I am not asking for them to be introduced tomorrow; I am simply asking for the possibility to be kept open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205111954	Well, of course I hear what the rapporteur says, and also what other rapporteurs have said on that issue. But I would just like to say that today there is a responsibility placed with the manager that employees have the necessary qualifications. And it is one of the ways to go, I think, that there must also be an effort there in terms of raising welfare. But it is also that there are enough staff out there, because it is also about the time to see whether the pigs are well or not well. There may also be some electronic surveillance that can enter there. There are many things we need to apply. In any case, we must improve the conditions, because they are not good enough for the pigs today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112030	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112033	As we in Denmark breed and slaughter at least 220 million animals a year, the Minister will probably be responsible for the conditions of over half a billion animals just during this parliamentary term and for many other animals in the future, when this legislation comes into force. They're all animals whose lives on this beautiful planet are going to depend on what decisions we pass in here at Christiansborg. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Minister on the whole: does the Minister think that with this bill we are offering animals a life of which we can be proud?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112114	As I also said to the previous questioner, a large number of animal welfare challenges remain in our pig production and in our farm production of animals. We must take this seriously. I am certainly doing this as a minister and will do my best to ensure that animal welfare is improved. As I said, we will also be talking about the parties between us when we have to renew the pig action plan and find out what is to come after it, because it has certainly not worked as intended. So I do not think that the legislative framework is the problem. It is that we must have something to do in the stables and in the farmers, of course, in good cooperation with agriculture. I would very much like to work with the parties on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112203	Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112207	I disagree with the Minister, because I also believe that there are basically some legislative problems, but we can have a further discussion on this in the future. I would like to ask the Minister, even if it might be a little extreme, whether the Minister believes that there will come a day when humanity will look back on the animal production that we have today with contempt, a day when we look back on the billions of animal suffering caused by industry today, and when one comes to wonder that we could allow ourselves to treat other sensitive and sensory individuals in the way we do today just for our own pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112246	I think it is enough to go too far to say that it is for our own pleasure, because of course this is about when we have the production of, for example. pigs, which we have in Denmark, that it helps to feed our own population, but of course also many others outside the country's borders, with the meat being produced. That is certain, and we are all counting on it to change our food habits in the years to come and to eat something more green and eat more climate-friendly. Of course, this will also affect our meat production.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112322	Orla Østerby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112327	Thank you. I have to say that when I hear the Enhedslisten, I have to stand up. I have to hear the Minister if my view of Danish agriculture is not correct when I say that Danish agriculture is world-class and an agriculture we can be proud of. I should also like to ask the Minister about the production we have in Denmark, which is a production that we make in a way animal welfare-wise that not many other countries can live up to. If that production were to be supplied by other farms and outsourced from Denmark, we would do the animals a disservice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112411	Here's Mr. Knox. Orla Østerby made a clear point. If you compare Danish agriculture with most other farms in the world, we are in the forefront, in fact, both in terms of green conversion and in terms of the production conditions under which we produce. But that does not mean that it cannot be done better and better, and that is what is my intention and that of the government. It is also important that we do so because, in the future, it will be a consumer requirement that when you eat meat or eat other kinds of food, they are sustainable, produced under proper conditions. This is what we need to help together with agriculture also to convert Danish agriculture to further deliver on, even if they are • I would like to say this today in world class.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112511	There are no further brief comments, and so we thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112536	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112546	Thank you for that, President. I think we are all now familiar with the senior pre-retirement pension which was made years ago and which has been mentioned a great deal in the press in recent years. I remember saying at the time that when you actually had to be as ill as a regular early retirement, it was just a matter of a faster no. We have also been able to see that it is limited who has been awarded a senior early retirement pension and much less than was actually expected at the time, while it is also very different from municipality to municipality. That is why this proposal on senior pensions is also a good proposal, which the Social Democratic Party welcomes. This means that you can obtain a senior pension on a benefit equivalent to early retirement if you have six years or less of old age pension, long-term employment relationship and a working capacity of 15 hours or less of the last job, so that you do not have to be tested in all other disciplines you have no knowledge of at all. This means that more elderly and very sick people will get easier by going to senior retirement and getting peace without having to be thrown around in all kinds of and impossible work tests. That is why we are pleased that we joined the conciliation circle and can help to get the new service started. It is also very important for us that citizens should have this opportunity as soon as possible and that it should already enter into force on 1 January 2020. Unfortunately, this also means that the consultation period has been very short, but I have no doubt that the municipalities will manage to do so, and I will of course also say here from the platform to the municipalities and others in the Chamber that, of course, we also have to find ourselves in a start-up phase where we have to be a little patient, but, as I said, I have no doubt that they will do the job. I've heard a lot of the bourgeois people say that's what you do, and then we've solved that with the worn-out and past withdrawal. I think I can say here that I totally disagree. I believe that there is a very long way to go from this system to the model that we have been working on and that our minister is working on right now. One can easily be worn out without necessarily being so ill that one can only work 3 hours a day, as this requires, which is actually not very much. Nor do I think that people who have worked long hours from being young should stand with their hats in their hands and be judged as to whether they are sick enough or not. Here I think it is all right for them to have a right to choose whether or not to withdraw earlier. I also know more people from my previous job at the harbour in Aarhus who have worked for many years and are in pain a lot of places, but who will not be able to form part of this scheme. This also shows quite clearly that not many people would be able to go straight from the workplace to the senior pension. So we don't think that these two things can be compared, and we think that something quite different is needed beyond this. At the same time, I think it is good that we reach out to the sick seniors with this scheme and give them the opportunity to have peace. That is why we are also voting in favour of the proposal and looking forward, together with the conciliation parties in the conciliation circle, to forming a good and permanent arrangement for these people. I think that is a good thing; they deserve it too; and it is really, really good that we can now make a good arrangement for them, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112855	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205112901	Thank you. And I welcome the fact that the Social Democratic Party believes that this proposal for a senior pension is a good one. Then the rapporteur mentions that we must now be a little patient with the municipalities. I should just like to get it right: the rapporteur agrees that what we are discussing here today about senior pensions will apply from 1 January. That is the one question I have, i.e. whether the rapporteur can confirm that the adopted law will apply from 1 January. The second question concerns the fact that I have to understand that the right model is the model of the Social Democratic Party in the election campaign, of early retirement, of the model with which the now much mentioned Arne has lost patience, so that he has chosen to go for the early retirement. But what about that model? Who should be included in it? Because I understand that the Socialist rapporteur actually refers to the model as being one that lies in the drawer over in the Ministry and that it is just a question of when it should be published.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113013	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113016	Now, unfortunately, I don't have access to the drawer over at the Ministry, so I don't know anything about that. But I also believe that the Minister from the platform has said on several occasions that there is a lot of work going on over there, and I am also looking forward to seeing what comes out of that timetable. I think so too, sir. Hans Andersen knows everything. I fully agree that it should be 1 January. We have also been involved in pushing for this; Mr. Hans Andersen, too. That's also why we proposed it with a temporary arrangement in the municipalities. I'm glad that you've agreed to it precisely because we want these people to get this thing right as soon as possible. But the reason why I am sending that signal is also that we have to recognise in here that when we start a matter as quickly as possible and with as short a consultation period as possible, we are also setting something in motion in the municipalities. It's also just for sending out some signals. But, of course, I agree that it should be 1 January and that these people should have that arrangement as soon as possible. As to whether this is the right arrangement, we think it is a right one, but it is a different one. That is not the same as saying that this system is not good. This scheme is also really good for the people who are as sick as they are and who are going to have a senior pension. That is why I said in my speech that there are other people too; there are people who may be able to work longer than 3 hours a day but who are worn out and who have worked since they were 17-18 years of age and whom we would like to grant it. I know that we are in complete disagreement here, but that is also why I say that this is not enough in relation to previous withdrawal; there we have other proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113135	Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113137	So it was not today that the Social Democratic Party came up with the model but is it not true that at the time of its publication in January this year the level, i.e. the economic level, the folk pension benefit, and that this is not the benefit received in connection with the senior pension? In other words, it is a considerably lower benefit proposed by the Social Democratic Party in relation to early retirement. And is it not true that in this way it is also a rights-based benefit, which means that it is in fact not only worn-out people who will come on an early pension, but also people who have only worked for a certain number of years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113220	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113222	It is true that the former bourgeois government had 4 years to do something in relation to the senior early retirement pension. They didn't do anything at all. And it is also quite true that when we came out in January with a desire to do something about earlier withdrawal, the government could suddenly, with the former Minister of Employment in the lead, start doing something like this. That is to say, it made the previous government wake up and I am delighted and therefore we have this arrangement today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113246	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113250	Thank you for that, President. I'm just gonna need a confirmation from sir. Leif Lahn Jensen concerning senior pension. It is the case that you can apply, 1⁄2 years before you reach age, i.e. it is 6 months before you reach retirement age, that you can then apply for a senior pension • 1⁄2 years before. Then I would like to have Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen confirms that there is no stage before. It's gotta be 1⁄2 years before you get a decision. If you can make a decision within a month, it's okay. Those to be granted a senior pension do not need to spend 1⁄2 years to clarify it if not necessary. So if the clarification can happen in a month, it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113337	I just don't remember what it says here. But it's really weird if you're gonna spend six months doing something you could do in one month. This is about these people, who are so sick and can meet these requirements, having to have the senior pension as soon as possible. I don't think anyone in here disagrees with that. Of course they do. And if you can figure it out in a few months, you have to do it, and that's where we just have to work a good model together in the conciliation circle for how we do it as well as possible for these people. That's what we're here for, and that's what we're supposed to do. So I look forward to that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113407	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113419	Thank you for the floor. And I am very pleased to hear that the rapporteur also thinks that this is a good and sensible solution today, because we in the Left certainly think so too. The reason I just stood up is because I doubted what the rapporteur said about early retirement. Because I'm still not interested in how many it is that you think will be included in early retirement. Is it still 6,000-8,000, or do you have another number?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113450	It's like Christmas Eve, right? We have a lot of people looking forward to a good Christmas present, and so do I, and so do my children and my grandson, so it's really, really good. And this side must also look forward to it when the Minister comes out with something. That is why we cannot say exactly how. That is what is being calculated: how many and how? But what I can at least say is that the system that has been put in place here, the system that the rapporteur's party was in charge of, will get some 130 people from employment and into it here. That's what you do, and I think we can deliver it better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113522	Okay, so the rapporteur can no longer give a figure on how many of these will be included. Is it not true, then, that, in relation to early retirement, the benefit is going to be equal to the national pension, which is, after all, a much lower benefit than the one we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113543	Yes, that's correct, and that's because it's two different things. This today is about very sick people, who can actually only work 3 hours a day, which is not very much. What we others are talking about is people who have a right, people who have worked for a very, very many years and who also deserve to have the right to go three years before, because they have simply worked for many years and because the bourgeois government also at some point reduced their wages. And it's to give them this chance, so it's true: there's a difference, because it's two different things. You can't compare it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113610	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205113624	Thank you. Then something new came out of today's debate. The Socialist rapporteur has just stood here on the floor of the Parliament and said that it is three years before an early retirement could be granted. So that's what you can count on. Well, that's new anyway. I thought it would only be possible to save the publication of the early pension model to a later date. But that was three years. I have been looking forward to today's debate, because with this bill we are putting in place an agreement on the right to a senior pension for worn-out, which the previous government joined with the Danish People's Party and the Radicals back in May of this year, and which the Social Democratic Party, which is now in government, has joined afterwards. And I welcome the fact that the government has signed the agreement and will also help deal with worn-out seniors. The agreement replaces the former senior early retirement pension, which we must recognise has not had the effect that it was intended to have. Unfortunately, this is far from the number we expected to receive a senior early retirement pension over the years. And that is also the reason why we have written in the agreement that it must be an economically independent authority responsible for the award of a senior pension. This ensures security and legal certainty for the citizen. I am also pleased that we ensure that all worn-out seniors, regardless of industry, have the right to withdraw from the labour market. Because there should be no doubt about the position of the Left: if you are worn out and cannot work, you should not work. I think the senior pension is in every way a very good and very fair scheme, even when we look at the benefit. The fact that these are people leaving the labour market a little earlier also gives them a benefit which corresponds to the early retirement pension, contrary to what I have to understand is the proposal for the early retirement pension that the Social Democratic Party will bring later on. Nevertheless, the government must also understand that the senior pension is not enough. It's not enough to give a worn-out pension. Healthy and healthy people must also be entitled to an early retirement pension. And who will that be, and who will be left with a long nose and the hat hand, to use the government's own rhetoric? We still don't know that, and you can't imagine Arne now that he's lost patience, and now he's opting for the early retirement. Then the new thing has arrived today that it is the three years before the retirement age that you will be able to receive the election promise of the Social Democratic Party. It's gonna be so exciting to see who it is and exactly to what performance. In the Left, we're happy with this bill. And we are pleased that it will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Because you have to meet three simple requirements. You have to have six years or less of a retirement pension, you have to have a long-term link with the labour market, and you have to have a working capacity of 15 hours or less. I welcome the fact that today we have a legislative proposal to ensure that on 1 January we can offer worn seniors a senior pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114014	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114017	Thank you so much, and it's my turn to ask questions. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether, in relation to this senior pension that we are doing now, the rapporteur knows how many people then come from full employment, not from benefits and not from flex jobs, which are also a form of benefits and on senior pensions. So how many people come from full employment and senior retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114043	After memory it is when it is fully phased, approx. 17,000 or 18,000 in total. And it is true that, of course, most of them will not come from full employment. But those we are talking about here are people who are worn out; they are people who are today on sickness benefit, on job clearance and who have a small flex job. And that is also why we have said that this is actually targeted at worn-out people. I am really proud of this, that is to say, that we can ensure that you can get a benefit that is actually at the level of early retirement benefits when you are worn out and cannot work more than 15 hours. So not many people come directly from full employment, because then they are actually able to do a full-time job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114138	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114142	Well, then I can say that, and the rapporteur also knew that it is 130 people a year. That's 130 people a year. More people do not come from full employment and into senior retirement. So I would also like to ask the rapporteur: what will the Left do for those who have been worn out, who have worked for so many years and who can actually work 16-17 hours, not 15? It is about the person who has worked hard out there for so many years who can work 16-17 hours, not 15 hours. Isn't that one worn out? What is the answer to that one? The left makes it sound like you're saving everything here, like you've got everything under control with previous withdrawal and the worn-out. There's just someone here who's gonna fall outside. What's the answer to him?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114229	After all, we have a very good system, which is that you can actually get a flex job when it is 16-17 hours you can work. And the rest, you get a full-time job with cash benefits. It is, of course, a very good model to still make sure that you have a firm attachment. The problem with the early retirement model of the Social Democratic Party is that it is, and we might as well say it as it is, an early retirement model version 2. This also means that it will include healthy, healthy people who now want to be right, I understand, for a benefit at the level of the national pension. And that is where we think it is the wrong priority for our resources. We need to make sure that the worn-out can get a benefit, and that's why we think this senior pension is a really good answer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114321	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114335	Thank you for that, President, and I will also mention differentiated pensions, because this legal procedure is not about differentiated pensions. I really believe that citizens are tired of hearing about differentiated pensions when we talk about senior pensions for worn-out, and that is what we need to concentrate on. The debate on differentiated pensions will take place when the government makes its proposal. But with this proposal for a senior pension, we in the Dansk Folkeparti are actually happy that our claim for a senior pension for worn-out comes through now and with a good and broad agreement, because we have seen that it has been needed ever since we entered into the agreement on a senior early retirement pension back in 2011. At that time the expectation was that a great deal would be put on a senior early retirement pension. It did not succeed, perhaps because it was put into the ordinary early retirement scheme and then drowned in the work of the municipalities in the job centres. That is why we could also see the need for other measures, and this has meant that we now have a senior pension for the worn out. It is they who have been long-term ill, those who have been through one grueling treatment after another, those who have been to more specialists and who cannot last longer on the labour market than under 15 hours a week. With this bill, they will have the opportunity to say, six years before they reach retirement age, in good order, that now they can't hold on to any more and that they want to be allowed to retire. Then they can apply for a senior pension six months before they reach retirement age and, as I said, there does not have to be six months. If there is so much information that the case can be dealt with in a month, it is also OK, and they must be measured in the job they have had in the last year before they became ill while they were in the labour market. There may be many who have come out of the labour market, they may have been through a resource cycle, they may be on sickness benefit during a longer period, they may be in a clarification situation in the municipality, and they may apply for a senior pension, and that is a very good move. When it is fully phased in, we expect it to be about approx. 17,000, who's been using this scheme to get here, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen pre-empted and no, I never said that a lot of people came directly from a job. It may be that some people have rushed through medicine until they couldn't handle it anymore, six years before retirement age. I cannot quantify how many people might come from there, but the vast majority will, of course, come from the system, where they have been through a process of clarification, where they have been through medical treatment and where they have not been able to cope more. There may also be some who may have been awarded a flex job but cannot get a flex job which then takes the opportunity to get a senior pension if that is what they want instead. That's what they're gonna have to judge for themselves. But the senior pension does not mean that people who say that they can work 12 hours a week and that they really want a flex job instead can't, because that option is there too. We are not saying that you should be able to choose to get a flex job if that is what you want. We will not take that away from any of the citizens. It will then come into force on 1 January 2020, when it will then be possible to start applying for a senior pension, and in this respect it has been proposed that the municipalities should have it at the beginning, and that we should then find a state institution that can cope with the clarification as to whether a senior pension can be obtained. Those negotiations have not yet been finalized and we must start again this afternoon in order to find a solution to this problem. But there should be no doubt that from 1 January you can start applying for a senior pension, and we in the Danish People's Party, as I said, are quite happy that this is now coming through. It will benefit a lot of people and create peace for a lot of people who may be dragged through one system after another, and to make it quite clear: none of them apply for senior pension to be dragged through a job clearance in the municipality. So there isn't. It is based on the information you have, the medical statements you have from specialists and what is now there. That is what must be judged on, and not after a job clearance, where you are dragged through one work test after another. You don't have to do that with this. So I can say with satisfaction that the Danish People's Party naturally supports this proposal, in which we ourselves have had a large share.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114831	Thank you. There is no comment to Mr. Bent Bøgsted. The next one is from the Radical Left. Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205114841	Thank you, President-in-Office, for the floor. I am very pleased that, with this proposal, we are now introducing a right to a senior pension for worn-out people, an agreement to ensure that, regardless of the industry and whether you are mentally or physically worn out, you have the opportunity to apply to retire from the labour market six years before retirement age. It will create security in the future, and the future is just around the corner, and in that future it will provide security when a long working life is nearing its end. The way we deal with worn-out is for me to see a cornerstone of welfare, and that helps define us as a society. Through a long working life, many citizens have contributed to the development of welfare, so it is only right that we create the framework for a withdrawal in a way that is consistent with the ability to work. The wear doesn't come by itself. After all, it is a question of how we organise the labour market and also how we prevent people from becoming worn out. There must also be a life after retirement from the labour market, so the discussion about senior pensions is quite closely linked to the discussion we had last week on working conditions. The goal must now be that the fewest possible people will be worn out at all, and I believe that we will take care of everything with this bill. Radical Left had seen that a state authority could be in place, so the granting of senior pensions should not depend on where in the country you live, but it has also been important that the senior pension can enter into force from 1 January next year, and the Minister for Employment has assured us that this can be done by allowing municipalities to stand for admission for a transitional period. It is not ideal, but we look forward to getting the country a model for the central government, and the Radical Left is really happy to be able to vote for this right to senior pension for the worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205115048	Thank you. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205115055	The senior pension is, in fact, an excellent answer. Depends on what you ask. For the worn out, for the people who started on the labour market as quite young, the senior pension basically corresponds to handing a thirsty man a note on which there is water. Well, the intention is good enough, but it doesn't really help much. What is needed is that the elevator against some worthy senior years for all of us stops on some more floors. We need to invest massively in a safe and healthy working environment, so that we actually have a realistic opportunity to endure working life. There is a need for massive investment in adult, in-service training so that you can change the industry and jobs through life. We need to give a discount, depending on when you start working, so that if you start as a young person, you will also have the opportunity to retire earlier. There is a need for considerably better conditions in order for the worn out to have a realistic opportunity to retire before they are completely worn out and they just have to crawl to retirement age. We need to thoroughly review the law on early retirement and flexible jobs, and then we need to stop and assess: is it really right that we should automatically increase the retirement age, as has been agreed in the past? When I say that, after all, senior pension is an okay answer, this is because the senior pension agreement is a clean-up exercise for people who already receive a transfer income, and that is actually quite good. Because we have created too many dead ends where people find it difficult to see a dignified way out of the situation. So it's good to clean up and help some people in a better place than to be stuck in a frustrating dead end. However, compared to how many people are helped from the hard working life, we are down to the fact that we can basically know the names of them, because it is in the vicinity of 130 people a year, and this senior pension does not solve the two major challenges that are: the one that is opening up another fair approach to retirement age, which is based on how many years you have been there, and the other and great challenge of wear and tear.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205115330	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205115339	Thank you. The senior pension is, after all, an improvement on the senior early retirement pension. We can say that right away. There is a clear difference between whether to meet the conditions that you must not have any working capacity left, and the terms of the proposal that you must have a working capacity of no more than 15 hours a week. But even if the senior pension is an improvement, it does not solve the major problems that have arisen with the ageing of the population with the de facto abolition of the early retirement pension. We simply lack the right to withdraw from the past for many people who are unable to work until they reach the ever-increasing age of retirement. But now I will deal with the proposal we are talking about and not with all the other pension discussions that I look forward to receiving in a very short space of time. Within the framework of the proposal, we also have some improvements that we would like to see. We would like to have a fixed age limit for the possibility of transition to a senior pension, for example. 55 years, instead of a floating and increasing age limit, which is tied up to the age of retirement. We also think that the demand for 20-25 years of employment is too vague. If 20 years is enough, you should write it. We lack answers as to whether periods of unemployment and sickness within the total period of employment count as employment. In addition, I would like to make a comment on the concept of the last job during this debate. If I take an example from my own background, I could describe a typical course: a carpenter who has worked with typical work on roofs and in basement, indoors and outdoors. After 25 years, the back works, and then the knees start to fail at times. This guy could be a m/k• who is now 45 years old, then starts looking for other job opportunities. Well, that's perfectly clear. The person is lucky and gets a janitor job in a larger property, but the wear and tear continues, and the stairs are still straining. Ten years later, it no longer goes, and our friend must then apply for a senior pension, but now the application is judged after the 10 years as a caretaker and not after the previous 25 years as a carpenter. Is this a good way to illustrate the overall progress? I don't think so. Then there is the processing of the application itself. It has to be said that there are actually some ambiguities. It is unclear how the assessment of the maximum 15 hours of weekly working capacity is to be carried out. We fully agree that there should be a great deal of emphasis on medical information, including specialist reports, but we believe that the citizen's own information on his or her health situation and on the citizen's own assessment of his or her disability must also be given great importance. We cannot read from the proposal whether this will be the case. We agree with the number of organisations that have criticised the overly short consultation period and the fact that the municipalities do not have time to prepare and implement the new senior pension but, at the same time, we also agree that it is urgent to replace the senior pre-retirement pension, so we can see the dilemma and that is especially because the administration will be a genuine zigzag course, in which the municipalities will be forced on the task, to which they have not agreed, for a shorter period, after which it will be transferred to a central unit, a state unit. In this context, I would like to point out that I do not know whether people have noticed that the cashiers have actually offered and declared themselves willing to take on the task. That is something that I think should be considered. Finally, we should take a look at the situation in this case of refugees, because it will be the case that the period of residence in the country of origin counts as the period of residence in Denmark and the refugees can thus be entitled to a full pension. However, as the rules are now, their senior pension will be measured as a fraction pension with any supplementary cash benefits, and if they do not meet the residence requirement for cash benefits, even if they are awarded to the senior pension, they will risk ending up with a total benefit at the level of integration benefit on which they cannot live. Since the proposal for a senior pension is an improvement on the current senior early retirement pension, we will vote in favour of the proposal, but we will continue to work to ensure a much better right to early retirement for the many who need it. And then we look forward to a very thorough committee work on this proposal in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205115820	Thank you. Are there any comments? Sir. Torsten Gejl? No, I'm the one who's wrong. The rapporteur's posts had changed, so I got a little confused. Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205115855	Thank you for the floor. The bill translates part of the agreement on entitlement to senior pension for worn-out people, which we in the Conservative People's Party entered into with the other governing parties, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. The aim of the agreement is to ensure that people who are worn out have a better chance of withdrawing from the labour market before their retirement age. It is proposed that you are entitled to a senior pension if you have six or less years of old age, have had a long-term link with the labour market and if you have a working capacity of 15 hours or less. This means that, in future, there will be new groups of people who will now be able to retire from the labour market before retirement age. At the time of the conclusion of the agreement, it was estimated that there would be a total of approx. 17,150 persons in the scheme when fully phased in. Among them are some 11,300 people who withdraw from the labour market through the senior pension scheme, who would not have had that opportunity today under the current rules. In the Conservative People's Party, we look forward to people who have had a long working life but who are worn out being able to go to senior retirement. We also look forward to the entry into force of this agreement and therefore consider it reasonable that the municipalities should be temporarily responsible for the award of senior pensions until a central government authority is established. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120031	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120042	Thank you, President. This proposal for a senior pension is a good proposal, which the alternative is in favour of, although, of course, we also think that some details need to be worked on. However, every time we discuss senior and senior early retirement pensions and differentiated pensions and retirement pensions, we in the Alternative are incredibly afraid that by doing so we accept a premise which is a system error in our labour market, which means that too many Danes leave too much of their health on the Danish labour market. And every time we discuss ways of repairing it for a few percent, we know that there are really, very many more people who somehow leave some of their health on the Danish labour market. We therefore believe that we need to address the root of the problem and discuss how to ensure that hundreds of thousands of people do not leave so much of their quality of life and their well-being and their health in the labour market. We simply need to ensure that far more people can meet a really good and positive pension existence with what we in the alternative call surviving capacity. And the survival is the ability and strength to enjoy our grandchildren, to cultivate our interests and to live a good and active life as a pensioner. To achieve this, we simply need to show more courage. We must show the courage, for example. to reduce working hours and, in the long term, to discuss citizen's wages. The Social Democrats have taken the lead in the past and, together with the social partners, have shortened working hours. It can of course be done again. And if we introduce a small, unconditional basic income, many people will have a flexibility in their lives, which will make it easier to take a break from the labour market, if health is at risk of harm or if health demands it, we can train ourselves in a new direction. In the alternative, of course, we are voting in favour of this bill, but we look forward to the day when this Parliament has the courage to make the changes that far more prevent wear and stress for many more people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120323	Thank you. There are no comments here either. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120329	This is a coinage of something that happened before the New Citizen came to parliament. But that is why there can be good proposals anyway, and this is it. That is why New Citizens can also support it. But I would also like to make a few comments on the fact that when politicians need to make these patch solutions over and over again, it is fundamental because there is precisely a system error and the system error lies in the fact that citizens are forced to hand in such a large proportion of the money they earn here to the politicians in the Folketing. This creates an unhealthy dependence on politicians for citizens. In the long term, we need to look at another system that creates much greater freedom for the individual, for the individual citizen and the individual family to adapt as they see fit. This also means that they themselves will be given more opportunity to decide when they want to retire from working life and, of course, to finance it themselves. But those opportunities do not have a great many people today, because we have the world's second highest taxation. But new citizens can support this proposal, and I should like to welcome it from the Liberal Alliance and say that they can also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120456	Thank you. Then there is no one else who wishes to speak, nor to make brief remarks. So this is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120506	I would like to start by thanking both the debate and the comments on the legislative proposal. This is, after all, one of several legislative proposals that translates the agreement on senior pensions, and indeed one of the key legislative proposals. As several speakers have said, the draft law introduces a completely new benefit, a senior pension, for those who, after many years in the labour market, have such a lasting and significantly reduced working capacity that they can work no more than 15 hours a week compared to their most recent job. In addition, senior pensions will be conditional on citizens having a long relationship with the labour market and being no more than six years from reaching the age of retirement. The scheme replaces the present early retirement pension, which unfortunately never worked as intended. I can't let that happen again. That is why we in the conciliation circle will be following the new system very closely. I am also pleased that we have had a legislative proposal tabled so quickly that senior pensions can enter into force as from the turn of the year, as was also stated in the May agreement. Having said that, I acknowledge at the same time that it would of course have been desirable to have more time for both consultation, legal proceedings and preparation for the implementation of the scheme. However, I believe that the municipalities are well placed to carry out the task, as they have the capacity and competence, even if this is done at short notice. The conciliation circle and I are currently discussing the future administration of the system. I cannot go into that in detail here, but we have a common objective that we can get an agreement on the regulatory model by Christmas. But right now, the most important thing is that we ensure an opportunity to get senior pensions for those who need it. I am very much in agreement with Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, who said that there was no reason in this debate to confuse the discussion on senior pensions with the discussion on a real right to early retirement. However, for those who should be in doubt, it remains a key priority for the government to ensure a more dignified and fair withdrawal for those with the most years in the labour market who are at risk of wearing out. Basically, we believe that we owe it to those who have worked and paid taxes through a long working life, a pat on their shoulders and an opportunity to withdraw worthily. Here, senior pension is a really nice supplement, a sidecar, if you like. However, the government and I also believe that there is a need for a real right to early retirement where there is an objective right. Finally, I would just like to say that I look forward to the further discussion of the draft law and, of course, I am making myself available for the forthcoming committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120749	Thank you. There are a few comments here. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120754	Thank you. It was the final remarks of the Minister that made me mark. The Minister, as I understand it, calls this bill a sidecar in relation to, I must understand, the Social Democratic proposal for early retirement, early retirement. So I just have to understand: is it because the proposal that comes at some point from the government will include more people, more worn-out people and worn-out in my optics must be those who cannot work full-time?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120843	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120844	Thank you for the question. I would like to say that I made that remark consciously in the hope that Mr. Hans Andersen wanted to bite the hook. I'm going to say, and I think it's important to say this... that both I and the government think this arrangement is a really nice arrangement. We think it is right to replace the senior early retirement pension, which never really worked. But I should also just like to point out that the senior early retirement pension was introduced in order to patch up a very large bleeding wound that was created when the post-retirement wage was significantly reduced. I do not believe that senior pensions and our desire to create a genuine right to early retirement are each other's contradictions at all. It is really two different things. The senior pension takes into account people who are not just worn out, but are actually broken-down people who are too sick to work. The right to early retirement, which we are working on right now, must in fact ensure that, after a long working life, people have an opportunity to retire,
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120954	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205120956	Thank you. Then I just have to understand in that way that the Social Democratic proposal, when it comes down to it, as I understand today, will be a right to retire three years before the retirement age. That is what the Socialist rapporteur mentioned earlier today. Then I just have to understand that it is not worn out; it is just a question of the number of years you have worked, then you can retire earlier. That is the Social Democrat approach to it, and that is where the Left and the Social Democrats do not agree. We think that if you are healthy, you should work and contribute to society. But if you're worn out, the senior pension has to be an option, and it will be with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121042	It is really also very interesting, because it is a bit like we are in the same hall, but each one comes from Mars and Venus respectively to use a weary expression. I don't think sir. Hans Andersen means bad about the things he says. But it is already in the definition of when one is worn out, we disagree, because that is what Mr. Hans Andersen, that you are worn out only when you are so ill that you can't work anymore. This does not mean that he attaches any value to it. For many people who have been right, very many years in the labour market, they end up wearing out in such a way that every day they get up and go to work hurts in the musculoskeletal system. And now that we have decided that the retirement age should rise, you should not be so ill that you have to be carried into a sick bed when you stop on the labour market; then you still have to be able to move away and have a good life afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121135	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121138	I agree that we are mixing up three discussions here, and I think that is very inappropriate. There is a discussion about the retirement age; there is a discussion about senior pensions for worn-out; and then there is a discussion about a dignified retirement from working life. I will choose to ask only questions about the proposal we are actually considering. I would like to ask about the 20-25 years of employment. The wording of 20-25 years of employment sounds like a speech stick in a conciliation debate. That doesn't sound like a legal text. That is why I would like to ask why it is not just 20 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121218	To be perfectly honest with Mrs Jette Gottlieb, neither I nor the Social Democrats sat in the crucial negotiations when it was discussed that it should be 25 years and not 20 years. And why not 15 years or 30 years for that matter? We were not given the opportunity to participate in the conciliation at the time. I think we would have liked that if we had had the opportunity. We have then said that we think this is a fine agreement and a fine replacement for the senior early retirement pension, as Mrs Jette Gottlieb said in her rapporteur's speech herself has never worked as intended. That is why we have joined and are trying to make the deal as best we can as the good caretakers. But I cannot give a detailed explanation of why it is 25 years and why it is not 30 or 20 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121307	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121308	Well, then, I'll ask you about the appropriateness. In other words, it creates an administratively enormous lack of clarity and is the subject of a very difficult procedure for the municipalities in the first place and later for the state unit. 20-25 years bits something. Would it be more appropriate to set a target year? Was it not a good amendment to make it 20 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121336	In any case, I think that is a good subject for discussion in committee. What I basically want to say is that, and I also think that was one of the points raised by Mrs Jette Gottlieb in the remarks ■ how to assess this here. It has been suggested in the first place in the municipalities and later in a central government that it should be an overall assessment of the citizen, i.e. both a medical assessment, but also an assessment of the situation of the citizen. After all, that is what has been proposed to be the subject of the assessment when granting senior pensions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121411	Thank you. And it is true that it is a very good idea to deal with the legislative proposal we are debating. Although we are a long way off in the debate, I would just like to say so when it was taken up. Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121425	Thank you for the floor. I am very pleased that the Minister is saying that this is a good arrangement. Now I'm a North Jutlander, and I get it that when you say that something is good, it's actually amazing; then it's impressively good; then it's not just something that's a little side law. So I hope we have the same understanding of what we are dealing with today. I would just like to ask: do we agree with the paper we have received on the legislative proposal, that is to say, comments, etc., that it says that the transition from employment, when it is fully phased in, applies to 3 000 people? Does the Minister consider that to be correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121509	First of all, I can confirm that we in the government think that this is a fine and good agreement and also a very good substitute for the senior early retirement pension, which never came to work and which, in our opinion, was intended at the time to patch up the gap in order to reduce the post-retirement pension too much. What is stated in the comments to the draft law is quite correct and I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121542	Next question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121545	I am glad that the Minister has just confirmed that it is 3 000 people who are out of work. Then I'm very excited because now you've called this a side law... how many people will actually be entitled to early retirement. Can the Minister tell us if it's 6,000 to 8,000?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121607	In other words, the things that we wrote at the time in our proposal are still in force, and that is what we are creating the model after which we will be presenting when the social partners have finished negotiating agreements. So it's still in place. In fact, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensens's comments earlier, that is to say that our proposal has always been intended to be able to withdraw for up to 3 years earlier, but that it follows the lifetime indexing. Well, we see a right to earlier withdrawal as an attempt to adjust the lifetime indexing, which ends with Denmark having the highest retirement age in almost the whole world. I believe and hope that in the bourgeois ranks too a necessary adjustment can be seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121653	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121706	Negotiation is open. First, the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205121745	The alternative has tabled a motion for a resolution obliging the ATP to phase out its investments in coal, oil and gas production. The proposal must ensure that investments take social and environmental sustainability into account. It is planned to amend the ATP Act so that social and environmental sustainability considerations become a legal requirement in relation to ATP's investments. I will start by stating that it is the Government's ambition to take the lead in the fight against the climate crisis. The green transition is the most important task of the world community, and I think it is natural that the board of directors of the ATP should also consider the green transition. The government's ambitions are also reflected in our climate and air project •Together for a greener future and in the current negotiations on a whole new climate law. In addition, I would also like to start by reminding you that ATP is an independent self-serving institution, managed by its own board of directors and board of directors, composed of the social partners. As Minister for Employment, therefore, I do not have any power of instruction in relation to the day-to-day management of the ATP. The main task of the Board of Directors under the ATP Act is thus to assess what is in the interests of its members, including ensuring the real value of the paid-up funds. In concrete terms, this means that the Board of Directors must ensure that ATP as a supplementary pension, in addition to keeping up with wage and price developments, is also in line with social developments. Heri also means that ATP can make investments with a focus on social responsibility and with a focus on sustainable green transition. Here it is important for me to stress that social responsibility can go hand in hand with safeguarding the interests of Members. Yes, in fact, I believe that this is a key parameter that ATP should take into account when investing our all our money. Having an essential role in society, which the ATP undoubtedly has, also entails a special commitment to shouldering social responsibility. However, it is clear that this must be done with respect for the need for Members to have a sensible return on their savings. That is why I also think it is important to look at the background to the ATP. ATP is a wide-ranging supplementary pension which includes both employees and persons on transfer income. For many, ATP remains the only supplementary pension they have for their retirement pension. This is the case for approx. 40% of the country's folk pensioners. But we must try to ensure that the many people get a sensible return on their forced savings. However, this does not mean that ATP cannot take social responsibility and does not already do so. It is the Board of Directors of ATP that sets out the investment strategy. ATP's Board of Directors' work with community responsibility rests on the Board's policy of community responsibility in investment and on the board's policy of active ownership. It is clear from the Board's policy on social responsibility and investment that ATP's work on social responsibility covers a broad spectrum of societally relevant issues in the fields of environment, social conditions and management • the so-called ESG themes, environmental, social and governance issues, as it is called in English. The aim is to protect the value of ATP's investments through focus on and respect for social responsibility, while at the same time benefiting the employees, businesses and communities affected. ATP also has a community responsibility committee. The Committee has the task of developing processes to ensure that ATP's policy on social responsibility and investment is respected. So it is not only green energy that ATP can and should take into account. There are also other factors that need to be taken into account. It can, for example, be done. be quite rewarding that investments do something good for communities around the world. To require the ATP to focus mainly on green energy at the expense of other sensible and rewarding socially responsible investments seems to me to go too far, and I also think that would be a pity. The focus on green energy can easily harmonize with the focus on other socially responsible investments, and there should be and is already room for both, as the law is now screwed up. I do not think there is any doubt that social responsibility is an important prerequisite for lasting good earnings and therefore also important for the ATP to be able to secure the real value of Members' funds. And I think that ATP's initiatives and ambitions demonstrate that ATP is of the same opinion. I am therefore also confident that the Board of Directors is able to look after the interests of its members and create a balanced relationship between return and social responsibility. However, if we oblige ATP to invest in certain companies by law or to prevent ATP from investing in some particular companies, it could be at the expense of other socially responsible actions and at the expense of the return of its members. ATP should raise a broad spectrum of social responsibility and not just focus on green energy. In addition, it is important for those members who have nothing other than the retirement pension to be able to count on a reasonable ATP payment, and this is ensured, among other things. through a reasonable return. With those comments, the Government considers that there is no need to change the rules of the ATP. There is room for both sustainable investment and sensible returns. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122340	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122345	ATP is something that everyone, i.e. 5 million Danes, pays to and through, among other things. legislation has a bearing on it. As such, there is no direct influence on private pension funds, but I would just like to remind the Minister that the WWF World Wildlife Fund in a report has just shown how ATP lags seriously behind private pension funds. That is why we need to do something. I just have to ask: I think the Minister was arguing for something wrong, namely that they should not be allowed to do it right, that if we meet the 1.5-degree target in the Paris Agreement, can we at the same time do something good for the local areas in which we invest? I mean, there's nothing here that says that you have to. It's just that you don't have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122450	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122452	So, yes, I can confirm that first of all is what the resolution is about. The second thing I can say is that, both over the last few years and now, in fact, the ATP is doing a great deal to move its investments in a more green and more social, sustainable direction, and that ATP has also informed me that for a number of years, the ATP has been calling on both the EU and the G20 to present ambitious CO2 but to make a specific demand that there are certain types of companies in which ATP should not invest, we in the government do not think that is the most appropriate way of doing this. ATP is already doing a great deal today. One of the new things they have started to invest in their investments is investing in green bonds in terms of active ownership of different companies, and I have full confidence that ATP will continue to drive this development forward, both because it is good for our society, but also because over time it turns out to be good for our economy and hopefully also for the return to our members.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122606	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122608	It was a good thing we just got in place that this is not about them investing only in green energy, as the Minister said, because that is not what the resolution is about. It is about not investing in companies that are helping to destroy the climate. It sounds like everything is going really, really well, but I would like the Minister to tell me that the private pension funds are being seriously lagged behind in relation to this. Does the Minister really think that it is good enough, in relation to the ambitions I can hear, that the government has, and in relation to the Climate Act, which is being dealt with these days, that so many Danes are forced to be a member of a fund that it is after all that invests in this way in fossil energy and in companies that are so much helping to adversely affect our climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122655	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122656	So, what I think we should bear in mind is that the majority of ATP's investment portfolio is bonds that are long-term investments because you do not take very large risks with ATP savers' money. For ATP, as I was also mentioned in my speech, the bottom line is the economy of many folk pensioners. So I think it's just important to keep in mind. In addition, I know that the ATP is actively working to constantly improve its investment profile in a more green and more socially responsible direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122733	Thank you. Then there is no further comment on the Minister in this round. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205122746	I would like to start by thanking the alternative for tabling this resolution. I always think it is important to discuss how and what ATP invests in; it is a fine discussion. It is also crucial for many people whether ATP's investments actually succeed. ATP administers the compulsory pension schemes of all Danish employees, which is therefore also a very large amount. It is also the case that for a very large number of pensioners, as the Minister also mentioned, ATP is the only subsidy in addition to the national pension, and that is precisely why it is extra important for these people that they get the right investment and that there is money when they retire. And even though life expectancy has been increasing, so far at least ATP has managed to cover these commitments and meet what was expected of them in that area. Having said that, we have had these discussions before in this Chamber and in committee, and indeed the Employment Committee has had meetings with the ATP on other matters before to hear about their investments, because that is of course something we should be interested in. It is natural to discuss it and that is something we must show our interest in. As I understand it, ATP is in constant contact with the companies in which they invest, where they also show interest in taking a social responsibility • a social responsibility that can be very many things. As the Minister also said, it may be the environment, social conditions, local interests around the world. I am therefore also of the opinion that the ATP has strategies for this, while at the same time actually succeeding in serving the primary purpose: to ensure that their members have money when they retire. I believe that the social partners, who sit on the board, do what they must, but will always encourage them, and I think that we should also invest in green conversion, invest in sustainable companies if possible, but I do not believe that we will get anything out of tightening up the legislation and making it harder for them to invest properly. It is a self-serving institution which needs to have some scope for action. When, at the same time, they have strategies and think in social responsibility, I can only be satisfied. That is why we will be voting against this proposal, but I would like to thank you again for the opportunity to discuss it, since it is always important to see whether the ATP is doing so wisely in relation to their members, as they are dealing with many people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123003	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123006	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. What is also the reason for this is that we see a movement among the pension funds towards being in the process of deinvesting in companies that are helping to destroy our future. When it comes to the ATP, you have no direct influence and can vote on how you think the money should be invested or not invested, and that is why a legislative amendment is needed and therefore this resolution. Then the rapporteur does not agree that it is a serious problem that, when we see that pension savers in private pension funds have actually begun to move forward, we see an ATP lagging behind, according to one example. the studies that have come from the World Fund for Nature and the articles that have been in information, etc. etc.? Is it not a problem, then, that we have no influence other than through a democratic institution, which one has to say that the Folketing is?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123108	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123109	What I know has worked before, even when we have had, some may think challenges, but also issues about ATP, is that, as I said, we have invited them into the Employment Committee and asked them to present some things and have a discussion with them. There I had a feeling that they actually took those things seriously and we got some pretty good answers from them. Nor do I believe that the ATP is interested in us being politicians shouting loudly at them all the time. So I would suggest that the rapporteur or others propose to drag them into the Employment Committee so that we can have a talk about how they invest sustainably and let them explain it. Then we can also have a discussion in a closed room with them about what we would like to see. I think that seems much better. I do not think we should go in and make a law when, at the same time, we expect them to ensure to all these pensioners that they have a pension. We must not tie them up here. But I always think that we should take them in for a discussion if we think there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123208	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123209	After all, the rapporteur knows that we have been doing this for many years. There are regular meetings with them. Both in the Committee on Employment and in the Committee on Finance, where I myself am sitting, we have had discussions with them. I just have to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that the green transition is fast enough? Does the rapporteur think that the ATP is moving fast enough when they are still lagging behind the private pension funds? Well, right now we have a window to act on the climate crisis. Does the rapporteur think that the development we are seeing with an ATP that lags so seriously behind the other pension funds is fast enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123246	I fully agree that we must always think about sustainability and other things; I fully agree with that. Nor am I quite sure that they will act quickly enough in relation to others. I have not considered this enough in comparison with the rapporteur, but I think that we should have that discussion with them. I think we should also ask about this, and I think they should be allowed to explain themselves. That's our job. However, to go in and tie them to something when it is a self-serving institution in which the social partners sit, I think is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123318	Thank you for that and so no more comments to this rapporteur. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123331	Thank you. When I saw the resolution, I recalled that we had dealt with a similar proposal, and when I looked into the archives, it was a discussion, a discussion, back in 2016. And then it actually made me think that a lot has happened since 2016. The green agenda is much, much more. There are many good reasons for this, and the authors of the motion are, of course, among the good reasons. And it is clear that many Danes are concerned with the green agenda. We must ensure a greener future for ourselves, our children and our grandchildren. At the same time, the consequences of climate change have become extremely clear: forest fires, droughts, floods and much more are a daily reminder that we have a huge challenge. It affects all of us, and it stresses that we must act. And in the Left we are ready for it, both when it comes to climate change law and subsequent negotiations. But in our eagerness to solve the challenges, we must also remember common sense. I think the proposal sounds sympathetic, but it violates some fundamental principles, as the Minister and the previous rapporteurs have also said, first and foremost that ATP is an institution of its own. The Minister does not have any powers of instruction either, and I think that is basically sensible. And then I also believe that ATP is actually their responsibility. Climate assessments of long-term investments are made, and in their report to Social Responsibility 2018, they also describe that they fully support the UN's 17 global goals for sustainable development. And for me, it shows that ATP takes responsibility and takes responsibility entirely. So although I think the proposal sounds sympathetic, we in the Left do not believe that we should support this proposal as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123554	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123555	The rapporteur is quite right to say that it is similar to something that has been discussed before, and we did so in 2016. And a lot has happened since then. We have seen a tremendous shift in a number of parties in relation to the way you go to the seriousness of the climate crisis. And that is also why it is necessary to discuss this again when we see since 2016 that ATP still lags away seriously after private pension funds. And then my question is, how slow is it getting too slow for the Left in relation to this action? If you are really ready to act on the climate crisis, how long can we sit and wait for the savings that all Danes have and that we are forced to do, we have no influence on how the money is invested, which you also have in a private pension fund, you have uninvested oil, gas and coal and instead invest in the future in which the money is also going to be spent?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123656	I am absolutely convinced that ATP and ATP's board of directors are very conscious of getting the best possible return for all of us. And I certainly believe that green investment is part of the solution. That is why I am absolutely convinced that they are also making green investments and will make it even more forward-looking. Because that's where there's actually good returns to fetch. So I trust and believe that ATP works with more green investments when we look into the future, and I do not believe that the solution is that we in Parliament should impose on them which companies they should invest in and which companies they should not invest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123747	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123749	We would not do that with this proposal either. We just wanted to say what kind of investment you cannot have, i.e. investments in companies and companies that are helping to destroy the climate. But let me ask you a little more in principle: does the rapporteur think that with one hand you can stand and invest in a green future and in tackling the climate crisis, and then at the same time put billions into companies that are helping to destroy the climate qua the work they are doing? Can we at the same time do so and still stand and say that we are in favour of acting in relation to the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123823	I am absolutely convinced that the board of directors of ATP is discussing these dilemmas. Back in time, in connection with the whole conversion of DONG, if the proposers' proposals had been followed, it could have been a situation in which, if necessary, there could be no investment in DONG and thus no part of the necessary conversion of DONG at the time it took place, in other words, in relation to being greener. And I'd be sorry if ATP couldn't have been involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123902	Thank you. There are no more comments. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205123910	Thank you for that, President. This motion for a resolution on ATP is about banning ATP from investing in companies that have turnover from oil, coal and gas and that get more than 5%. of its turnover from oil, coal and gas. Of course, ATP has a purpose in their investments. ATP intends to create a large surplus for the Danish citizen who pays for ATP and the greater the turnover they generate, the greater the payout in ATP. They have to interest the money that is being deposited on the ATP, and I am quite confident that there is a board of directors on the ATP that does. I do not think that we in this Parliament should start to impose restrictions on what to do and what not to do. Some recommendations may be made, but I do not think we should begin by law to decide what ATP should invest in. Because if it is passed by law that they are not allowed to invest there, what is next in which the alternative would forbid ATP to invest? It can be anything, for example. that they should not invest in anything with agriculture or other companies that the alternative does not like so much and that they may think is somewhat contrary to climate considerations. I think we should let ATP decide for themselves how they invest, but of course you can discuss with ATP and make some recommendations as to whether it is reasonable to invest in these companies. Then, of course, ATP must explain how and how it is. However, the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal, and we therefore still believe that ATP is making a good effort to interest the citizens' money, but we will not by law begin to restrict the types of companies in which they can invest. Of course, there has also been a lot of talk about the arms industry and stuff like that, but let ATP manage this. I think that with the development that is taking place in the area of climate change, it all comes down to the fact that ATP is beginning to opt out of these businesses. In time, they change their investment strategy and automatically opt out of them when developments in the climate area are progressing. So we're pretty confident that ATP's got it under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124219	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124222	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to clarify, because now the rapporteur says what else it might be for some companies, the alternative does not like. And I just want to hear whether we agree that this resolution is not about what the alternative likes or dislikes, because it is about what kind of future we invest in. And does the Danish People's Party agree that we must act on the climate crisis, and will it also help to put the money where they can work for the future that we are talking about, and not necessarily in companies that are making the climate crisis worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124305	Well, we agree that we need to improve the climate, and that is also why the Danish People's Party has proposed that the revenue from the North Sea oil should be 125 billion. DKK, I think, from now on should go to the effort for the climate. So we agree that we need to take care of the climate and improve it, and then we need to find some money for it, and we do so, among other things. by placing the revenue from the North Sea, the oil billions, in a fund to improve the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124334	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124335	So we agree that we need to invest in the green transition so that we invest in acting on the climate crisis. Are we also agreed that this is not just about some companies you don't like, but that this is about us at the moment. Does the ATP really lag behind private pension funds when it comes to investment in oil, gas and coal, i.e. industries that significantly exacerbate the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124403	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124404	After all, it is impossible for me to judge which companies the alternative does not like. I am not in a position to judge. But Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist might as well have named the companies in which ATP was not allowed to invest. I am sure that ATP is making a good effort to manage the money that comes into ATP's pension fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124431	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124437	Thank you, President. Thank you to the alternative for tabling this motion for a resolution. In the Radical Left, we share the ambition to phase out investments in the coal, oil and gas sectors and instead to make investments to support the green transition. It is essential that we deal in all areas with climate impact, because by its very nature it is of no use to continue investment in the fossil energy sector when we are now trying to get rid of the same thing. However, this also suggests, as far as I am aware, that the future of pension companies' investments lies in precisely the green investments, because there can no longer be any doubt that the fossil energy sector carries around an expiration date and fortunately for that. A sign of this is ATP's announcement from this summer, where they announced a doubling of green investment and at the same time estimated that in 10 years' time green businesses and projects would account for half of ATP's alternative investments. However, I am also sceptical about whether the investment strategy is ambitious enough in the green area and can only hope that further pressure will be put on green investment. In relation to the resolution itself, it is absolutely crucial for me to emphasise that ATP is an independent and self-serving institution with its own board of directors, and I believe that, in general, we must respect the independence of ATP when it comes to investing in citizens' pension savings. I do not think that it is we here in the Danish Parliament who are the best qualified to invest the Danish pension savings. In this context, it is also important to bear in mind that ATP manages savings not only for employees but also for people on transfer income. We in the Radical Left are concerned that the proposal may expose the pension savings of citizens to a risk which will particularly affect the group of particularly vulnerable citizens who have not necessarily earned pensions elsewhere. We have a clear political responsibility to ensure a stable framework so that our pension companies can invest long-term in the green transition, but with this resolution we are moving both through the independence of ATP and creating a possible risk to the pension savings of vulnerable citizens and citizens in general. So in the Radical Left we would like to agree with the desire for more green investment, but cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124715	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124719	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I'd like to hear something. For the rapporteur's party colleague, Mrs Ida Auken, said in July that she wanted to give pension companies the opportunity to do so themselves, that is to say to convert their investments, but otherwise you have to see whether to legislate on it. How long will Radicals give us to get on with the green transition, also in relation to the investment from the ATP?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124746	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124747	I do not know exactly what that statement is, but I have, of course, come up with this particular motion for a resolution with Mrs Ida Auken. Because it is important for us in the Radical Left to secure the green agenda and she is the rapporteur in that area. But when it comes to this motion for a resolution, we can be really afraid of it, and so it applies to everyone in the Radical Left that it is going to hurt citizens' pension savings in a way that is not appropriate, which is a responsibility that we should not take on our part here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124827	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124828	However, what I just sensed from the rapporteur's speech was that it was agreed that there should be deinvested from companies in relation to oil, gas and coal and invested towards the future in which the money also needs to be spent. That is why I would very much like to hear how long the Radical Left has to wait for this to happen. We can see from the reports that have come from the World Wildlife Fund that ATP is seriously lagging behind. So how long will you wait?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124857	The Radical Left is, of course, busy, as is the alternative, in relation to precisely the green agenda and the green transition, and I certainly hope that we, as a party, will show this in very many contexts, where we are working with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and the alternative. However, when it comes to this specific motion for a resolution, the reservation is that it is not the Folketing that best knows how to invest the citizens' pension savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124929	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124932	The rapporteur said that fossil energy sources have an early expiry date. I would then like to ask the rapporteur when it is estimated that this expiry date will be and whether the rapporteur could at the same time explain how much of the current energy demand we are getting covered by sun and wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205124953	I cannot account for the share that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is asking, just immediately, and I also do not know the exact date when the fossil energy sector like has its expiry date. But it is now the case that in society, citizens and politicians, in general, we have a real, real demand for green investment, and it is contagious, including on pension companies such as the ATP. For example, they said: Just this summer, there was a big focus on this area. It is, of course, from there that I consider that there must be an expiry date, because the atmosphere in the green area has turned to the positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125047	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125048	Well, that's a lot of rhetoric, but when the rapporteur says "smart," we have to assume that it might be 10, 20, 30 years or something, otherwise it may not matter. Then you just have to say it has an expiration date, but everything usually has an expiration date. I can inform you that approx. 4% of the world's total energy needs are covered by sun and wind. So there is a long prospect that renewable energy sources can meet the world's energy needs. It is not realistic at all that this should take place in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125120	Well, let's just say it has an expiration date. But I do not agree that it is all that has that expiry date. I hope green investment doesn't have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125132	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125138	After all, the proposal is a nice reunion with a proposal that the Alternative put forward in 2016 and, as then, we will also say clearly this time that we will of course vote in favour of it. I also see this proposal as part of the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF in spring 2018 on responsible investments for pension funds. Our 2018 proposal had a somewhat broader perspective with both ethical considerations, but also climate and environmental considerations. However, as I said at the last reading in 2016, I would also like to make it clear this time that this is an excellent proposal that the alternative has screwed up. The fine objectives of green conversion must be followed by concrete action everywhere and not just where the State can take decisions directly and in concrete terms. The green switch must have winds on all bike paths. Climate change is affecting us all, and everywhere we must help to give development a boost in the right direction. The green transition is only possible when the whole of society, including the pension funds, contributes. And what is the point, if I may say so, of a slightly higher pension return if we are in water for life? The pension funds in particular must be able to see prospects which go beyond the next pension payment, approximately to the 1st. It's not just what counts right now. Of course we have to make demands on ATP. ATP is social money, which must be invested to secure society in the longer term. The focus alone on short-term profit risks undermining the very foundations of life as we know it. We think that this is a very relevant debate that the alternative has raised. I would also like to say that, at an earlier stage, we have discussed whether ATP was obliged to invest in tax havens, for example, because they were now where they were, and were there, to get the highest return. But that just shows that, of course, we can interfere with the ATP. After all, there is nothing in the ATP Act to prevent other social considerations, be it environmental, sustainability or tax, etc. It is clear from the SF's view that pension funds must be part of a social responsibility over profit thinking. And it is not the case that profit and ethics in themselves are contradictory. Here I think we are showing that there is a golden opportunity to deliver not only a healthy pension wealth, but also a more economically responsible, sustainable and greener world. It's about being able to retire with a good conscience.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125450	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125456	Thank you. I would like to start by emphasising that this is not a proposal which imposes certain investment objects on ATP, but rather requires ATP not to invest in certain socially damaging productions. After all, it is the country's largest money tank and, moreover, it is the money of the employees. I have witnessed similar discussions in other pension funds and there it actually led to changed investment patterns. I think that should be noted. I have also witnessed parallel discussions many years ago, for example. We have been talking about arms production and where it has also resulted in changes in investment patterns, so in this sense there is nothing wrong with this proposal. In relation to the discussion about whether it is okay for us to discuss it here in the Folketing, I would say: yes, it is okay, precisely because it is social means, because it is a social direction; so it is quite all right for us to discuss it. And it should be remembered that there is already legislation governing how to invest, namely to ensure the highest possible return. So, of course, you can also have other forms of regulation. Finally, I would like to ask for clarification. The comments state that there must be a change in the structure of the ATP. I am of the opinion that it is perfectly possible to carry out actions such as those described in the proposal without structural changes; and I would strongly recommend this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125617	Thank you, and there are no comments to this rapporteur either. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125624	Thank you. I would like to begin by recognising the good intentions behind this motion for a resolution. It is a matter of heart for us Conservatives that we get pushed on when it comes to green transition. And we also recognise that the investments of pension funds are of enormous importance for the green transition. Having said that, we do not believe that the detailed management of ATP's investments is the right way to go. According to ATP, climate investment and green conversion are a growing investment area in which ATP actively seeks to invest. ATP is among other things: entered the market for green bonds. They themselves recognise that it is a good business to move in relation to investing in green conversion. And they have an ambition that 50%. of their investments should be green in 10 years' time; and we think that is excellent. ATP has shown that in several ways they follow the green transition and contribute to it. Among other things: Supports ATP TCFD, an international expert group, which presented a number of recommendations and guidelines for companies and investors at the G20 Summit in Hamburg in June 2017. ATP has reported that they welcome the recommendations, which provide a broad framework for understanding and working with climate opportunities and climate risks across investment. In addition, ATP reports that they have good experience in using their active ownership on climate issues. The 2018 report on ATP's social responsibility will include: described how ATP helped to put Shell under pressure along with other investors. A shareholder proposal at Shell's general meeting in 2018 required Shell to set concrete targets for greenhouse gas emissions in the future. Following a concrete assessment of the proposal and on the basis of Shell's reports, ATP supported the proposal. Furthermore, as part of their active ownership companies that do not report their CO2 I would again acknowledge the good intentions of the proposal, but the Conservative People's Party is opposed to retailing ATP's investments. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125917	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125919	There are several rapporteurs who have said that this is a detailed manager, but is it not true that we are already in charge of the ATP today? We have said through the legislation that there must be the highest possible return, ergo we have to control how ATP should act. Secondly, in principle: does the Conservative People's Party agree that, in the long term, investments from energy sources that help to destroy our climate should be moved to the green transition so that we can create the future in which we have to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125949	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205125950	We are, and that is also in the direction ATP is moving. But the point to be borne in mind is that the time horizon for pension funds is 10.15, 20 or 30 years. It is not something that you can push for them to start next year. I think it is commendable that they themselves recognise that investing in the green is a good investment. We should commend them for that. They're moving in the direction we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130021	But what is the time horizon of the Conservative People's Party in relation to the green transition? How long can we both sit and watch the ATP have investments in industries that are helping to exacerbate the climate crisis and at the same time try to address the climate crisis? What is the time perspective for the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130042	Well, the fact that ATP itself says that in 10 years' time, 50% will. of their investments be green, we think is really fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130050	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130102	ATP is set in the world to ensure that the Danes have a little extra pension to live for. They should not start to be an extended arm compared to the urge of some climate fantasists to detail everything that is going on in society. It's a grotesque thought. And if we open up here, where does it stop if there is a majority that is even worse and that believes that we should spend even more of our citizens' money on various investments, which are not intended to increase the wealth of pension companies and thus the wealth of pensioners, but rather to have some sort of political activist approach? It is a slip, a fundamental slip, in which we in the New Citizen absolutely will not participate. Then we will be happy to take part in a fundamental debate on ATP, because I believe that there is reason why we should perhaps take up ATP at another time. Because there are some issues about the way ATP is currently arranged with their business model • but I am sure that they are also aware of the fact that we do not actually ensure an inflation-proof return. And that is a major problem, because it means that we are actually undermining the pensions to be paid. There are a large number of areas there that could be considered. Perhaps we should resolve how the ATP works instead of putting on more hinges, because then you risk even less money for pensioners. I should like to welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130254	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have thus been through the rapporteur's line, and now it is the rapporteur for the proposers of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130307	Thank you, President. I'm just gonna get all the paperwork together. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Minister for the debate on this today. As several speakers have said, this is something we have discussed before, namely back in 2016, when we had a similar resolution up, and I have to admit that I am a little disappointed that these are the same words that we are hearing now in 2019, when we have a government that says that they will act on the climate. After all, more and more parties have agreed on a 70-percent reduction target by 2030, and then a majority of the parties say anyway: No, we must not go into the work of ATP, because that would be totally unacceptable, despite the fact that we are already doing so today. After all, we have decided by law that ATP should invest so that it offers maximum return. Then it is just that I am standing back and saying: why can we not also talk about the highest possible climate return, so that we are actually doing something in relation to the climate crisis, instead of seeing, as we are doing today, that ATP is seriously lagging behind private pension funds? I do not understand it, and I think it is deeply sad that we can sit and negotiate a climate law and at the same time just sit and watch with our hands in our laps that there are billions of dollars in investment in oil, gas and coal, which are helping to exacerbate the climate crisis we are then trying to resolve in the other place. I do not think it is connected; I think it is too bad. The Minister said that there are no great risks to Members' money. I just have to say that you take great risks for Members' money when you invest in those companies that are actually helping to exacerbate the climate crisis. Then you take a very, very high risk. I really think that the SF's rapporteur said it quite, very precisely when he said that there was, in fact, no contradiction between talking ethics and profit. In fact, things are going really well hand in hand. It can be seen from the stock exchanges that it is not the prices of oil, gas and coal that rise most. No, in fact they are rattling down, which is why I think it would be very good if we gave some guidelines to the ATP, so that we can start to decide how all the money paid into ATP by all Danish employees and people on transfer income should be spent. The place where we can do it is actually here in the Folketing, because ATP acts on the basis of a law. So I think it is a pity that nothing more has happened here in the Danish Parliament since 2016 when it comes to the climate agenda and that we dare not touch this. I think that is very, very unfortunate and I hope that, in spite of everything, we can come a little closer to real action in committee. Then Mrs Jette Gottlieb asked about the fact that it says in the comments that ATP's structure needs to be changed so that the Danish Parliament can demand that investments flee with Denmark's overall objectives of the green transition. It is based on the consequences of this motion for a resolution. As we understand it, something would have to be changed in order to be able to make these demands. However, if Mrs Jette Gottlieb has other good ways of doing this and does not think it is necessary, we are obviously very open to finding out in committee. We have tried to have this worded as precisely as possible and also taken some of the criticisms made in 2016 into account in the revision of this resolution. However, I hope that we will see much more climate action, including when it comes to money. This whole thing about thinking that we can sit and talk climate laws and then watch the investments go out in oil, gas and coal, just doesn't stick together. We need to act in the area of climate change both politically and, of course, also when it comes to money. But thank you for the first reading here today, and I hope that we can move a little in the committee procedure too, by the Minister's understanding of what is risky and not risky when we talk about investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130758	Thank you. I just need to know if the alternative will help make it voluntary to deposit to the ATP. In other words, if you want to run some kind of agenda where it is certain stocks and certain areas you must and must not invest in, it should also be voluntary to place your money, in relation to whether you agree with the direction that is being invested in there, or whether you really want to open up the way for people to withdraw their money and then invest it in another pension company. After all, it must be up to the citizens themselves if they think that this is the best way to get their money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130829	Well, it isn't today. I am forced to have investments standing in oil, gas and coal through the ATP, and that is why we are trying through the democratic tools we have to change it. And we think it is sensible to have the ATP, because, as many rapporteurs have said, that is what gives extra money to many pensioners as the only supplementary pension. We think that is sensible enough. But today it is the case that we are forced to have our money standing in a way so that they go to destroy the future in which we would like to spend the money. And that's why we want this shift in purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130903	Yeah, but that wasn't an answer to what I asked. I asked if people would be free to have their money in the ATP. Should it still be a legal requirement for people to have their money in the ATP, or should they put it in another pension company? And if you do not want to make it completely free for the citizens, you could say that there was a requirement that they should be in a pension company and that perhaps a few should be approved for those who could then have the investment profile that people thought was right for them and their lives. If they do not agree with the Alternative's agenda, there must surely be an opportunity for that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205130935	Now it is not just the agenda of the alternative. We are clearly referring to the Paris Agreement, which is a UN agreement concluded by most countries of the world • The United States has then withdrawn, and peace be with it. But I really do not think that what this is about is whether we should be able to put the money in other companies. It's not something I've been thinking about. I think it makes sense that we have the ATP, which gives some money to citizens when they retire, and I just want the money to be invested in line with the policy being pursued in Denmark, about a 70-percent reduction target by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205131010	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205131025	This resolution has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate is open, and first it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205131049	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking the initiators of the citizens' proposal for the removal of mutual dependants for all. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament who have chosen to table it as a motion for a resolution. In my view, it is an expression of a healthy democratic culture that we are discussing today an issue which concerns many Danes. The motion for a resolution is based on the fact that it is not fair that the benefits to early or old-age or old-age pensioners and cash benefits recipients depend to a certain extent on the finances of a marriage partner or spouse. The proposal is therefore aimed at individualising the system, so that the rates are the same for all and independent of civil status and economic conditions. As I understand the proposal, all benefits must instead be determined according to the rules applicable to single people, i.e... at the same rates as those applicable to single persons and the benefit to persons living together or married must not be reduced because the partner has a high income. For the government, today's first reading is a good opportunity to discuss some basic principles behind the Danish benefit system. The proposal raises some questions about the way in which we have organised our welfare societies, and hence the principles of how we prioritise that taxpayers' money can best help those citizens who need it most. I would like to make it clear that, for the government, the guiding principle of the welfare society is that we can step in with a secure basis for those citizens who cannot work to support themselves or who have reached the age of retirement. And let me start by stating that it is by no means an innovation in our system of benefits that the rules are as they are. In fact, these are principles which have a very long historical tradition, yes, back from before former Minister for Social Affairs K. K. Steincke's social reform in the 1930s. Basically, it is a question of ensuring that the benefits we pay to citizens are measured as necessary. That was the case at the time, and that is the case today. What we can call, in a common word, spouse dependency has been designed in different ways over the years, but the general feature is that, for example, it is not possible to find a job. in the pension system, if you have a spouse, especially if the spouse has a significant income, you receive a lower benefit. If, for example, a pensioner: is married to a bank manager who has a salary of several million kroner annually, then the pensioner still receives a benefit but at a lower level. At the end of the 1990s, the principle was extended to include cohabitants who were equated with married couples. This change took into account a social development in which more and more people chose to live together without marriage but, after all, had a comparable need for support. That is very briefly part of the reason why a married couple or two cohabiting pensioners do not receive twice as much as a single person. At the same time, the rules are designed to target services to those who have the least and thus ensure that the welfare society and the tax-financed services are of the greatest benefit to those who need it most. These are basic principles which a broad majority in the Folketing has been behind and has been doing for many years. When I look at the motion for a resolution, I understand the intention, and I understand the idea that it is the specific situation of the individual citizen and his own economic circumstances that are being taken into account. And I recognise that many recipients of benefits may find it difficult to get the money going and would therefore like the benefits they receive to be higher. But even if I can understand the desire, it's not a path the government wants to go. This is linked to the guiding principles I mentioned earlier, but it is also linked to how we, as a society, want to prioritise taxpayers' money here and now. For the government, it is reasonable that we take into account the overall economic situation of the citizen for a wide range of services and in this context also take into account whether the citizen is single, cohabiting or married. It seems to me that it would be irresponsible to deal with taxpayers' money if it were to have no significance at all, for example, for a national pensioner. is married to a person who has an ongoing high monthly salary, or it would be unreasonable for the single national pensionist, such as the Netherlands. only has his retirement pension and little savings from the ATP. I should also like to point out here that it is only in the cash assistance system that there are genuinely mutual dependents and that it must be seen in the context of the fact that cash assistance is the lowest economic safety net and, moreover, is accompanied by a number of active labour market interventions from the public sector. For both old-age and old-age pensions, which are permanent dependents, there is no mutual understanding that public aid can be completely discontinued if the spouse has a sufficiently high salary. The pensioner is always provided with an independent dependency independent of how much a spouse or partner serves. It is basically about the fact that the bank manager's spouse does not need the same support as the unskilled worker's spouse. So we have to remember that as a folk pensioner you get DKK 6,300. per month in basic amounts from the welfare community, whether your spouse owns Lego or Danfoss. I think there is reasonableness in that. In this way, we can target public services to those people where the need is greatest. I have so far focused much on the principles of our welfare society and the principles of the system of benefits. However, when the government does not want to realise the intentions of the resolution, it is also linked to the fact that it will be expensive indeed. Now it is not quite clear how to perceive the scope of the citizens' proposal. However, it is clear, among other things, that it is all the rules on mutual leave that must be removed for all and that one must be able to live a dignified life with a boyfriend/spouse, without partial or total loss of income. Yesterday, in a reply to the Employment Committee, the Minister for Finance stated that it would cost 12.3 billion a year. kr. to raise the rates for married and cohabiting early and old-age and old-age pensioners to the level of single persons alone. In addition, additional costs are incurred by removing the mutual dependent in the cash benefits system, as well as the dependent spouse and cohabitants of the pension system, so that pensioners are only reduced by their own income. So it is the huge calculator that we need to get, and in any case it is so large that we cannot get it home by making it more efficient. It is a huge amount of money, it has to be said, to find by cutting down significantly elsewhere and this at a time when we in the Danish Parliament agree to achieve ambitious climate goals, minimum standards, improve our welfare and have money for future generations. The government simply does not think this is a viable way to go. For this reason alone, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. But now it is not a question of everything or nothing. Changes have been made in recent years to improve the conditions of the pension system, especially for pensioners who are married or cohabiting. Among other things: an old-age check has been introduced which has been continuously increased. Older people's cheques are granted with the same amount for single, married and cohabitants per year. person. For the economically disadvantaged pensioners, this is an improvement. Most recently, we have adopted a further relaxation of the retirement pension for both old-age and old-age pensioners who are married or cohabiting with a non-pensioner. So the government is concerned with ensuring good opportunities for early and old-age pensioners, but is not in favour of completely eliminating spouse dependency in the pension system. I would like to thank again for the proposal, which helps to focus on the important political priorities and discussions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205131914	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205131918	Thank you to the Minister for his speech. I am a little sensitive to this financial dependence on cash aid recipients, who are married and roommates, where you might lose your entire income. I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on the consequences of this economic dependence. And does the Minister agree that it can also help to create an unequal relationship in a relationship that is economically dependent on one's partner?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205131956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205131956-2	Well, first of all, the purpose of introducing mutual dependents for cohabitants in the cash benefits system was to equate married and cohabitants. After all, many people today do not choose to marry, but live in the same way, and I fully acknowledge what Mrs Velasquez has to say, namely: can it not have major consequences for the individual family? Yes, you have to confirm that. But it must also be said, and I also mentioned it a little in my speech, that when it comes to cash benefits and the cash benefits system, we are talking about the lower safety net. And the whole point is that people shouldn't be permanent on cash benefits. If you're too sick to work, you have to have another benefit. If it's because you need a job, you need a job. If it is because you lack qualifications and training to get a job, then you have to have it. So the spouse dependency in the cash benefits system seems reasonable to me, and especially when you look at the idea that it is a temporary benefit. The fact that this is not always the case is just another reminder to all of us sitting in this Chamber that we have an incredibly large task of ensuring that it is so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132111	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132112	Thank you also for stating that, of course, sick people should not be on cash benefits, and the various parts. But when we look at the fact that cash benefits must be a temporary arrangement, we can of course bear in mind that over 72 000 people have been on cash benefits for more than two years. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether we do not agree that there are some structural factors that are relevant to unemployment. There may be business cycles and other different parts, so that if you can take a job, it also depends on whether there is a job to take. And therefore, you do not necessarily choose whether you are self-supporting. So will the Minister confirm that there are structural factors that can be involved in relation to whether you can be self-supporting and take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132156	There is no doubt that structural conditions are of course always involved. And in relation to the economic differences that may exist, this is also one of the reasons why both I and the government and my party are, moreover, very strong supporters of the fact that all citizens who have a link with the labour market should insure themselves against unemployment through membership of an unemployment fund, so as to be stronger in the cyclical fluctuations that exist. But, of course, there may be structural reasons why you are available, just as there may be other reasons why you have a set of complex challenges, social, illness etc. And there we have an obligation to ensure that those who are basically unable to work do not have to be on cash benefits either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132244	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132247	Thank you very much. Thanks for the speech. As I heard the Minister's speech, there was little hope. I mean, I didn't hear any opening up of any kind to look at anything in relation to this massive desire of the people to abolish mutual dependents. Did I hear you right? Wasn't there any outstretched hand in looking at something, in relation to perhaps finding a starting arrangement, in relation to perhaps just as quietly getting started solving this big problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132322-2	I'm not gonna be able to tell you how Mr. Knox is doing this. Torsten Gejl has heard my speech. I think, of course, that I will end the speech by actually mentioning a number of the measures taken in recent years which actually improve the conditions of people who are either cohabiting or married as part of the pension system. We will continue to look at these things. However, as I also made clear in my speech, there is, first of all, no question of mutual dependants for either old-age pensioners or early-retirement pensioners. This means that you can have your pension graduated depending on your spouse's income. However, an economic level is always guaranteed. And on top of that there is, and that is the boring argument, but the very honest argument that we have a government and Mr. Torsten Gejl's party has just helped to create a Finance Act where the ambitions on all kinds of routes are towering, and it is very, very costly if you are to enter and remove spouse dependency in the pension system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132427	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132428	I am a little concerned that the Minister is saying that this type of social improvement must definitely be at the expense of sustainable change. So, does the Minister think that if it is the case that we take social considerations and find just as quiet a way to start spending money on this, then it should definitely be taken away from the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132458	I don't think I put an address on where the money's to be taken from. However, as I explained in my opening speech, it will cost at least 12.3 billion. kr. a year if we remove the spouse dependency of early retirement and pensioners. And I understand that you can be frustrated about it. And there is also, as I acknowledge, a cultural shift, I think, from the fact that everyone recognised a principle that, of course, the most natural thing in the world, that there was dependence on a spouse, and to the fact that, as time goes by, more and more people see their own income as their own and not as part of a household. But that's 12.3 billion. I don't see where we're gonna find that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132544	Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132559	Thank you. I think it is very, very good with this discussion, and the fact that a citizen's proposal can get a debate going in the Folketing is a good thing. I think it is very good that we have the opportunity to focus on a subject that I also know interests many people. I think that all of us in here know that, as we have had many inquiries. So thank you very much for that to those who have put it forward and those who are addressing us. What is often the problem with citizens' proposals is that they are not always precise with regard to legislation, nor do they indicate either economics or finance. I can understand that, too, because it is very difficult, and it requires incredibly much, often an entire ministry. But that means that we politicians have to discuss this here and we can further want calculations if we want to, and create even more debate. I think it is very good that we should have the opportunity to do so through such a proposal here too. The problem with this proposal is that mutual dependants only apply to cash benefits recipients, as the Minister also pointed out, whereas there are other set-off rules for pensioners and early retirement pensioners if their spouse has an income. This means that cash benefits recipients may lose their entire benefit, whereas other groups may lose parts of it but never lose it all. That is why we must look both at dependents and at set-off rules if we are to ensure that everyone gets a greater benefit and is not set off against the spouse's income, as we would like with the proposal. At least that is how I read the proposal. This also means that if we simply delete both the set-off rules and the dependents, it will also benefit those who have a lot of money and can take care of themselves and not just those who are the weakest and who have little money. Then, as the Minister said, we will also be helping those who are married to someone who has a great deal of money and then we will be giving them more. It is then a place where, if you did this, we would give priority to spending several billions. Now I hear the Minister mention at least 12.3 billion. kr. a year. It will then be spent on giving wealthy people even more money. We in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned about those who do not have much in advance. That is why we helped to ensure that pensioners were given more, by stopping the dismantling of the national pension by abolishing the rate pool, and we secured a subsidy for poor families of children who do not have much. It has not been a very long time since we were in the Chamber with that part. So what the resolution would like to do, namely help the weakest, will happen, but that is not just what is happening. And that is why we would rather give priority to the money that we now have to prioritize, different and make some measures that help those who have the least. We will help those who are the weakest in our society. That is why the Social Democrats are voting against the proposal. But I would also like to say that we thank the citizens who have written to us. We've all had a lot of inquiries. I thank those who have come in and talked to the committee. Someone came in and presented their stuff. I think that's really good. I thank all those who have done so. I think that is important. Because it's clear that these rules mean a lot to many of these people. We meet them ourselves, we know them ourselves, and that's why I think it's good to have this discussion. But it's just not that easy, because it's also a priority. I also think it is wrong to spend so many billions. I would rather spend that money on those who really need it, in other words many of those mentioned by the Minister and which I also mentioned here. I think that benefits a lot more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132929	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205132934	I think that rejection of this proposal is very categorical. I am aware that this proposal, if it is implemented tomorrow, will help even more than those who have the least. But if we look at those who now have the least and actually have access to even less, in that it may also keep some from living with their boyfriend or partner, could we not imagine a small outstretched hand and that one started a gentler place and that one looks at a smaller funding? You could take that stairwise. Is there no outstretched hand for all the people whom the rapporteur stands on the platform and thanks?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133018	Well, that's exactly what we're doing. There is, of course, an outstretched hand when we just want to look at providing those people with especially children's families who are poor and higher benefits. We've also been in on the old-age check. We've been part of the retirement business. We'll do everything we can to help these people. We just don't think this is the right way to do it. That is also why we are saying the things we are doing, and I am not a second in doubt about the fact that now a financial law has just come through that, with the parties supporting this government, we can also look at how the people who have the least, the weakest people, are getting closer to having a job and having a better life. We'll do anything for that. We just don't agree that this is the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133058	The alternative, together with the Socialists, has fought forcefully against, for example. the ceiling on cash benefits, which has meant that a very large number of recipients of cash benefits have been reduced in benefits through housing support. And as it has been gratifying to see the Social Democrats' powerful opposition to the cash aid ceiling, this could not have been a way to compensate, for example. cash benefits recipients up to the rate they had before the ceiling on cash benefits by contributing to a small reduction of the mutual dependent?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133138	I also remember the strong opposition to the cash aid ceiling, because it was actually I who made it for our party, because I was the rapporteur at the time. And I also believe that what was done at the time was completely wrong. That is also why we are proposing it with higher benefits. That was also why I had to stand on the platform the other day and be attacked by those who disagree with me. Because I believe that we cannot have a society in which the families of children have so little for themselves and are so poor. That's why I'd like to do it. That is why I would also like to look at other things. I just don't think this is the right thing to spend so much money on, because it also gives something to some of those who have enough. That's why we have to do it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133215	The next question is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133218	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think that part of the concept of the citizens' proposals is that we can get some ideas and suggestions in here, which we can then work with the dream of a free education system, or that you should be able to go to the doctor without having to pay money for it. Many of these ideas have not, of course, been blocked by the fact that all legal parts should first be put in place and the whole funding found. That is precisely what we need to do. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Social Democratic Party could also take part, in addition to the improvement that has just been made, in looking at it in relation to the amount of deductions and in relation to the early retirement and retirement pensions, i.e. whether we could not do anything more for the people who are affected there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133310	I think this whole citizen proposal thing is super good. I am also aware that not many of them are going through. But what they really can do is that they can do that we politicians have to decide on some things. We need to get to grips with some things. It has also been the case that I, like many of those who are here, have come to terms with what it means, and have thought out and in and listened to many people and talked to many people. I've had a lot of people on the phone. I think that's super good. That is what we, as politicians, have to decide on. I would like at any time to help improve the lives of these people by getting jobs, as the Minister said, and with a higher benefit, as we did last, if they have very little. I'm just saying again that I don't think this is the solution, because I think we're going to spend too much money on something that doesn't hit those I want to help. It is a problem, and we can then ask the others when they come to the platform, i.e. if they don't care about it. But I'm not quite. When we are in the priorities we are now in, I want the priorities and the money we have in this welfare system, our all our money, to benefit those who need it. That is what I mean as a Social Democrat, and that is what I want to fight for at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133416	When I put a lot of questions to the rapporteur and I am eager to get some answers, it is because I have more confidence in the rapporteur than in rapporteurs from other parties that we can change some of these parts. I think that we can also try to see whether we should change the limit, so that we take one step at a time. Or should we do something about other parts? I would like to hear the rapporteur in concrete terms about the economic dependence of cash aid recipients. Does the rapporteur not think that it will get one further away from the labour market, that one will get rid of the carpet and actually get zero kroner in income?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133454	I'm not sure it's because of this. I think it's important. I mean, this is playing with all sorts of other things. It is playing with our employment system. This goes hand in hand with the fact that we do not have an employment system that works one hundred per cent, nor does the education system work one hundred per cent. And there we can do much more. However, I would also like to say to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that they are now also involved in financial law negotiations and everything else. They have every opportunity to make wishes about how they want to improve society. That is the path they can take when they help to point to a government. However, immediately on this point, I do not think that this is the right way to go and I believe that we need to give the money a different priority. Because if we do this, I just have to say that spending 12.7 billion. kr. That means they have to come from somewhere. And there I am not sure that Enhedslisten and others are ready to point out who will pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133540	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133544	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur recognises the incentive that means that if there is no financial gain from moving from a passive benefit to work, i.e. if, for example, we do not have any financial benefits. have a couple who are on cash benefits, and one can see that if they went out and took a job, it would really put their families at a disadvantage financially and that they would not do so. Can the rapporteur understand that people think of the way that they will not punish themselves and give their families less money to work with if that is how they go out and take a job, even though perhaps it might be what we as a society think is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133627-2	It would be strange if I could not recognise it, because I am also with people who tell me this and, of course, I recognise it. That's the problem out there. And that is also why I am saying that this society is not 100% perfect, and the system we have is also helping to create something like the rapporteur says. I fully acknowledge that. What I'm just saying is that I don't think this is the solution to changing these things. I do not know exactly how to solve it, but it would be totally blind and stupid of me to stand and say that I do not recognise that because I know that. Many of them come to me too, and I can also see that they are deeply affected, for they are unhappy, and that makes them do some things that are unhappy. That's also why it's really good to have this discussion. I also have to say that I do not think this is the solution to it; we have to solve that in other ways, and then we have to discuss how.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133714	Then I would like to ask a few questions about what is the Social Democratic bid for this. What is the Social Democracy's suggestion of how to solve the fundamental problem that entering the labour market is not economically worthwhile for people who are not in the labour market? Then there may be all sorts of other gains from what we agree on, for example. that it is good for the children to have some parents who thrive and come out socially. But in economic terms, for some couples and some families, there is no financial gain from the fact that one goes out and takes a job that could be healthy for the family; on the contrary, it can actually put them in an economic situation that they find it difficult to cope with. What is the Social Democracy's bid to solve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133758	The very best thing we can do is actually make sure that these people get a job, or to make sure that they are sick people, that they do not have to deal with the benefits they have been providing. That's one of them. That is also the problem of the ceiling on cash benefits. That's what we have to take care of. I would also like to acknowledge that this system is not 100% perfect either. We are fighting this every day in the field of employment. The very best thing we can do is actually make sure these people get a job and thus a better income. I also heard the rapporteur say that when the rapporteur attacked me on child benefit the other day. That is the kind of thing we have to say, namely that work should, of course, be worthwhile. And we must help them all we can to get to work, both with education and through our entire employment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133841	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205133857	Thank you for that, thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen to explain the proposal and thank the Minister. I would like to start by saying that I understand that, as a citizen, we are concentrating first and foremost on our own economy and situation. That is quite natural, and I therefore also understand if you think it may be a pity to be covered by mutual dependents. However, as politicians, we need to think about how best to help as many people as possible and get as much money as possible for citizens' tax dollars. That is why we also believe that the mutual dependent is reasonable and reasonable. We do so for three main reasons. Firstly, it is healthy for our welfare societies that we target the greatest aid to the people who need it most. And when you live with someone else who has an income, it can be big, and it can be bigger, you don't have the same need as if you are a single parent. Secondly, we actually think it is quite reasonable that you help to support yourself and yours when you have an income; then, as a society, we can help more and target aid to those who need it most. Thirdly, we have had an answer yesterday. We have not received any answers to all the questions put to this citizens' proposal, but we have at least received an answer yesterday which says that it will cost 12 billion. kr., if you eliminate the spouse dependency of pensioners and for people on early retirement. It is then an amount that we should find elsewhere in our welfare community, if need be, schools, day care centres, green transitions, and we in the Left are not of the opinion that we would be able to do so. So we've actually already been working on this problem. The minister mentioned the senior check. The former government and the Danish People's Party have, in fact, also relaxed the set-off rules for folk pensioners in the Finance Act, by 2019 at the latest, and so I believe that we will take various initiatives on an ongoing basis, but to remove spouse dependency from one day to the next and to remove the mutual dependent we cannot support in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134213	Thank you. The rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party actually asked a question which was also at my heart, and I think it is very relevant to put it to the Left. Now it is the case that the Left's slogan is that working must pay off. How does this fit in with the fact that this interdependence actually means that for some people it is not worthwhile to work? There are simply some who become poorer by working.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134242	In the Left, we think it should be the case that working is worthwhile. It must also pay to work for families who are currently on cash benefits but who can get a job. There must always be a financial gain and we would like to look at those cases where taking a job has a negative economic consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134317	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134318	In fact, I think that was a very, very constructive remark and think that the constructive remarks should come from the Left. I am not saying that in any way out of disrespect, but I think it is very exciting what the rapporteur says about looking at cases where the mutual dependent leads people to not actually take a job because it will lower their income. Can the rapporteur give us a little more details on how we could look at this and perhaps move forward with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134356	Now I understand that this citizen's proposal will be dealt with in committee, and then I think it is appropriate to ask some questions. Because it is absolutely essential that we ensure that taking a job pays off. Now I have also seen some examples, and in the examples I have seen, it is true that the gain is not great, but there is, but I think that all the facts and all the examples should be on the table, and then I think that we should discuss them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134431	The next question is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134434	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I took note of the reference to the answer given by the Ministry of Finance, which we received yesterday, and I would just like to know whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that what the authors of the motion for a resolution want is not the same rate as single people, which is being asked here in the question, but the rate to which they are entitled before the set-off.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134501	In fact, I do not think that the citizen's proposal is very precise, and that is what has given rise to a whole series of questions on this citizens' proposal. We can discuss it in committee, but we need to be aware of whether it is the mutual dependent who is the first priority or whether it is the spouse's dependency that we wish to eliminate if necessary. So I think we are left with a citizens' proposal that we need to work with in committee to identify the economic consequences of one or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134544	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134545	Thank you for your reply from the rapporteur. I agree with some of the points made by the rapporteur, but we do understand what is meant in the proposal, and otherwise the rapporteur would not go into retirement pensions and early retirement, so we understand the spirit and intention of the citizens' proposal. At any rate, I also think that it is important that we look at further work to see that it is not the same rate as the single sheep as they have stressed, but simply that we should not set off against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134618	I think we should discuss this in committee. What remains to be done today by the Left is that we find that both the mutual and the dependent are relationships that we do not see in the short term as something that we can change. Now I mentioned the 12 billion. kr., and that is only part of the bill that should be picked up if necessary. However, we are concerned that it should always be possible for pensioners or married couples, one of whom is a national pensionist and the other worker, to be able to continue working, I was saying, without having to face a severe set-off.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series is from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205134719	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the citizens who signed and submitted this citizens' proposal on mutual dependents, for it has given us the opportunity to dig a little bit into how things were all connected. It has just turned out that it was more complicated than that. It is so simple to say that it is all covered by mutual dependents, and then when we start digging into it, it turns out that the only thing that is covered by mutual dependents is cash benefits, integration benefits and educational assistance. All the other aspects of early retirement, public pension and the offsetting of the spouse's income from work are thus covered by the Social Pension Act and the early retirement law. And that's why it's not gonna be as simple again as it might just look. We have also had the opportunity to dig in what it costs. It was quite an announcement that it cost 33 billion. kr. All in all. And after retreats and the various regulations, it's about 15 billion. kr., if you are going to abolish everything, as is shown here, in relation to mutual dependents and offsets in the various benefits. Some of the things that have not been calculated are if you start to look at the fact that you should not have the benefit reduced on early retirement, but not on a retirement pension; then you would also be able to get less in housing insurance. This is also something that needs to be taken into account, because it is also part of this backflow, so that there is less payment of other benefits. So it's not that simple again. In the Danish People's Party, we have been aware that there were some issues in this area, and therefore we also have in connection with the Finance Act where the Danish People's Party got through, that we should have less set-off due to income, spouse's income, or if you had any income of your own, you have got the bottom deduction from DKK 60,000. $100,000. And this year, together with the current and former government, we raised it to DKK 122,000, so that you get even more home. This means that there are a lot of people who find that they have received a pension notification in December that they are getting more money. Because it was retroactive for the whole of 2019, so they now got more money. And in future their performance will also be higher; and that is a good thing. I would also like to thank the Elders cause, because they have marked in their magazine that we have got that boost through. So we can only be satisfied with that in the Danish People's Party, that is to say that we have been able to help early retirement and old-age pensioners both those who are married to each other and those who are cohabiting with someone who is on the labour market. We are pleased that we have been able to help in this area. But that does not change the fact that we also think that, of course, something remains to be done. Of course, we don't just have these 12, 13, 14, 15 billion. kr. You can't just take it all away and then say you have 15 billion. kr. We have asked the Ministry of Employment whether it can be taken in part, that is to say change any of it. We couldn't get those calculations. The Ministry of Finance could not deliver this because the government has been through some financial law negotiations with their support parties so it has pulled out. The Treasury doesn't have time to deliver these calculations. So we can thank the government's support parties for taking it so long that we have not managed to get these calculations, but we must then just regret that and then hope that they will come. Now the Ministry of Finance has promised to come before Christmas, but it would have been nice to have had these calculations here today. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we are ready to see whether we can change further the set-off for early retirement and folk pensionists, that is, the interplay that exists between people who live together, that is, between people who are married or cohabiting. We are ready to see if we can relax further, but we lack the calculations so that we can get an idea of how much money we are going to find, but so far we are glad that we have had the bottom allowance raised to DKK 122,000, which has meant that a lot of people have received a higher benefit. This is due to the actions that came with the Finance Act in 2018 • both in relation to folk pensionists and the abolition of the rate pool and the regulation to pensioners and early retirement pensioners who have given them a higher benefit. We are ready to see if we can find out more about those set-off systems. I'm afraid I'm out of time. I could have spent five more minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Fortunately, then, there are a few questions, and that gives the rapporteur the opportunity to speak a little longer. The first questioner is from the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135238	Thank you very much. The rapporteur is absolutely right that this is complex. It is complicated legislation, and if it is to be changed, it may be that it is different laws that have to be changed. It's probably so complicated and detailed that there's only one place in this country we can do it, and it's here. I'm really glad to hear that DF has asked questions about whether there are openings here, where we might as I understood that on some points may come a little bit. I think it is very positive that another bourgeois party has strong ambitions in this area. Can the rapporteur comment a little more on what sort of openings the rapporteur might see? Whether or not there is something that we can already begin to think about in relation to the committee procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135323	I have talked to the Minister for Employment about this and have asked for calculations on it. I know that too, sir. Karsten Hønge has asked for calculations of the cost of the pension reduction if you take it gradually. It could be that it would be affordable. But these are the calculations that we have not been able to get because the Ministry of Finance has been too busy and has not managed any more. They've been more busy hiring consultants than anyone who can count on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135355	I just want to sign for the answer. Thank you for your constructive attitude. I look forward to continued cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135404	Yeah, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135406	The next question is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135409	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Thank you, too, for the question raised by the rapporteur today. On 8 March, the Danish People's Party struck a blow that women should have an equal life in relation to life with their men, and they should have the right to do so. I am thinking here of economic dependence: the a little conservative, old-fashioned thinking that as a woman you become financially dependent on your husband and may risk standing and getting zero dollars paid, i.e. not getting your cash benefits paid. Could the Danish People's Party be interested in helping to soften up a bit so that you cannot risk losing your entire performance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135454	Now I'm gonna say that I'm probably of the old-fashioned school, and if you're married or living together, you take care of each other, and then you're all in common. At least we are in my family. That's where we share it all. I could never dream that my wife, if she had no income, would not have any of my money. That is also why we have a joint account. I could never dream of that, I never could, even when I was not in the Folketing, where I also lived with someone who was on cash benefits. I would never dream that we didn't have a common economy. When one has money, the other has money. That is how it is in my universe, and it is also the attitude we are pursuing in the Danish People's Party. But that is why we can see that in some of these areas there may be a need to loosen up early retirement and old-age pensions, where you are set off so hard, even if you have income next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135556	Thank you for your answer. Now I am going back to the recipients of cash benefits, because there is both the difficulty in getting the ends to meet, because you are hit so hard economically, but one of the things about our welfare society is also the security that it gives that if for some reason we cannot support ourselves for a period of unemployment, or if we get old and have to retire, or if we are affected by illness, we actually join forces and contribute there. Isn't there any of the things that get a little lost in this part, that is, by losing your entire income as a cash aid recipient or on integration benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135634	Now it is the case that cash benefits are only a temporary benefit, and that is why, of course, a great deal of effort must be made to get cash benefits recipients into jobs. That is also why, in the new employment law, we have made it so that job centres must be more targeted in helping people into work. That's also why we have this programme of actions... More people are going with us, where we've turned the pile and said that sick people and cash benefit recipients shouldn't be on cash benefits at all. They're gonna have to go to another service. I don't want them to be hit by cash benefits. This is something that the Danish People's Party has been set in motion, and we are glad that we have gone that way. Of course we must help those who cannot, but we do best by helping them get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135711	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205135724	Thank you. This motion for a resolution stems from a citizens' proposal which, at the beginning of November, obtained 50,000 signatures. That number has subsequently increased by over 10,000. Last time I checked, the numerator was 63,132. Also on Facebook, the citizens' proposal enjoys great support with 60,000 members in the official group, and according to the website, the activity is over 650 listings per year. day. There is therefore an enormous interest in this proposal, which aims to abolish the mutual dependents altogether. I just have to say thank you very much for your commitment. In fact, the proposal speaks into a major fundamental discussion as to whether the individual or the family should be the starting point for policy-making. For to what extent should we, as a cohabitant, actually answer to each other, or to what extent should the state view the cohabitation as a unit, a family. This is an issue which contains some balances and some considerations which we actually rarely talk about. I believe that we should see the family as a unit and should support the family as a unit. So it is worrying when couples stand out and tell that the mutual dependent is working on the relationship both financially and psychologically, and that living separately is considered the only way out, even if one would actually have lived together. It is also worrying when emphasis is placed on cases where people say no to work because it is financially better for both parties to be on benefit. The settlement rules were initially intended to ensure that the government would not have to support one's partner if one had a large fortune or salary. But we also have an experience that the limit is set so low that many are affected, although they do not have very high incomes and may completely lose the motivation to look for work. And that wasn't supposed to happen. With this in mind, it is important for me to stress that we in the Radical Left believe that it is reasonable that there should be a degree of interdependence. As a society, we must support those people who alone cannot support themselves. That is an absolute basic principle. But it is also natural that you as a worker help to support your partner. However, I have the experience that many are affected, even if they do not have such high incomes, and that they may even lose the incentive to be at work or to put an extra effort on the job. And with that we are really back to where I started, that is that it is a question which is not entirely clear. That is why we also want the rules to be drawn up in such a way that work pays off. And we'd like to take a closer look at the rules. However, the motion for a resolution here involves the total abolition of the mutual dependents, and we in the Radical Left cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a question from the Enhedslisten from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140034	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Does the rapporteur not think that some of the fundamentals when we talk about equality, and when we talk about the fight for liberation, is economic autonomy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140049-2	It is true that there is also an equality aspect to this proposal. And if I also wear my hat as gender rapporteur, that is clearly one of the things I am concerned about here too. The mutual dependent was introduced back in 1926 with the aim of ensuring that housewives and children were protected against the husband spending his money outside the home. This is an outmoded view in relation to the way we look at individuals and equal opportunities today. And then I have to say that there is also an economic issue that I did not manage to touch on in the speech, namely that it costs a great deal of money, and that is money from which we must give priority elsewhere if we want to abolish the mutual dependent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140146	I like the fact that the equal opportunities rapporteur also came up with a little bit, because I very much agree with the comments made by the equality rapporteur. Isn't there somehow an opening, so it doesn't have to be everything or nothing? Could the Radical Left not help to see whether we could take a small step in the right direction towards economic autonomy for these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140207	I hope that the questioner also got the impression that there are situations where it is not sustainable for families that there is a set-off. The Radical Left is ready to look at this in the context of the work of the committee. There is also an economic question, in relation to how much it will cost to completely abolish the mutual dependent, but it is clear that there are some families and some situations where taking a job and working further, that is to say taking overtime, simply cannot pay off. So there are some cases we need to look at. The Radical Left is also ready to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140248	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140258	Thank you to each of the 63,000 people who signed this citizens' proposal. It is good to get a debate going. Perhaps it is somewhat unclear what exactly the proposal is about, because several subjects and concepts are mixed together. It is not quite clear whether it is the real mutual dependents that are being debated or whether it is the spouse's income dependency, or whether it is the dependency at all within all groups of the partner's income. But that does not change the main objective, namely the desire for fairer treatment of people on a pension or other transfer income. SF believes that there is a need for a clean-up and a alignment of conditions. And SF suggests that we use this amazing situation with so many committed citizens to get the whole area properly worked out. Yesterday I got an answer to one of the questions I have asked, but there are a number of other questions that have not yet been answered. We really need an overview and calculations so that we get a clear picture of the consequences of the current laws and what it will cost to build some new models. As a starting point, SF is in favour of each citizen being financially independent. This is already the case today when it comes to unemployment benefit, sickness benefit, the development of resources, occupational pensions and social security. Here and now, in the SF, we believe that the first step should be to abolish the income dependence of the partner for early retirement. We have calculations that show that it will cost around 400-500 million. kr., and that money will be well spent. We want to start with early retirement, and this is a proposal that we have put forward in the SF before, because that pension just replaces a wage income. But I must also say that some reductions, both for early retirement and for old-age pensioners, are actually okay. There is then I think that we all know about the gains by living with a partner here I think in the first place about the financial gains • but it surprises me, however, that there is a difference in how much is reduced. As far as I can see from the figures, there is a 15% reduction for early retirementists. and for the pensioners, more than 20%. So that's where we're gonna have to find out if it's gonna be almost 15 percent. or 20%, but the very fact that there is a reduction because of the benefit of living more people together and thus saving costs, we think that is OK as a starting point. It's about finding a fair one's arrangement. For old-age pensioners, the set-off of the partner's income already starts around DKK 200,000. We think that is a very low amount. Here it is necessary to adjust that limit upwards so that income dependency becomes less. We also believe that the income dependency of cash benefit recipients is starting today at a ridiculously low level. As I recall, it already starts when the partner makes double the cash benefits. We are down to such small amounts when you already lose your income through cash aid that we do not think it is reasonable. Here we have to look at a fairly fair bottom if there is to be this reduction in a slow phasing-out of it, I would say more about our policy on that point. In a reply to me, which I received yesterday, calculations from the Ministry of Finance show that the elimination of the difference between single pensioners and cohabitants will cost 12.3 billion. If we add to this the cost of the possible abolition of income dependency, then we are somewhere above the 15 billion. kr. As I have said before, we are working in the SF to create a fairer and more transparent regime. Here and now, as I have said, we think that it is the early retirement workers who need help. But we also have a realistic relationship with the 12.3 billion. kr. or 15 billion kr., for are they best spent on relaxing the economy for everyone, regardless of the specific economic reality of these people? We would probably say there that we would rather give more to the people who have the least, both in direct pensions and through, for example. better opportunities for home help.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140745	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and that is how we proceed in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205140801	Children, now I'm tired, and you don't get any more,/mother is in the kitchen, now she has to pull./Therefore she gets this wallet,/lift once where it is heavy!/Christmas lasts a long time, costs a lot of money. I remember when I was little, and we danced around the tree and sang this song by Peter Faber from 1848 that I thought how good it was that as a future woman I should not be financially dependent on a man and how many coins he now chose to put in the wallet. Unfortunately, however, that childhood thought is not quite right in today's Denmark. The idea that legislation and politicians should follow today's view of gender roles and social and family structures is unfortunately a bit wrong. Despite the liberation of women, the struggle for a welfare society and other rebellions, we have continued in our legislation to set a framework for becoming economically dependent on our partner today. After the changes made in 2015, the mutual dependent still applies to cohabitants and married couples receiving cash benefits. Pensioners and early retirement pensioners are also, in a sense, subject to a mutual dependent, both as a roommate and as a married couple. But here we have recently been softening up in the Folketing how hard the pensioners and the early retirement pensionists are to be hit. Specifically, we increase the amount of the deduction from the calculated income of the spouse or collector of a national pensioner who does not receive a social pension from half the income of the spouse or collector up to a ceiling of DKK 307.700. of the income of the spouse or collector. And the amount of deduction for the calculated income of an early retirement spouse or collector who does not receive a social pension is increased by DKr 13,000. from DKK 236,728. today at DKK 249,728, and the amount of the deduction for a spouse or collector to an early retirement pensionist under the old scheme, in which the spouse or collector does not receive a social pension, is changed from half of his or her income up to a ceiling of DKK 307,700. of its revenue without a ceiling. It is, of course, an improvement, and that is why we support it in the Enhedslisten. But it's only one step on the way. In fact, many people are not aware of the fact that in Denmark we have pensioners and sick people who have received an early retirement pension because of serious illness and who cannot work, yet do not have the financial autonomy that we so often celebrate, but are made financially dependent on their partner or their spouse with whom they live. In the same way, the recipients of cash benefits are made dependent on the spouse with whom they live, which can be seen as an expression of the fact that unemployment has become an individual problem, and not a structural problem, which among other things is: are affected by business cycles and other parts. Therefore, I would like to thank you very much behind the citizens' proposal and also congratulate you on the excellent number of supporters, not only because you have raised a huge awareness of mutual dependants and put it on the agenda and brought it into the Parliamentary Chamber, but also because you have opened up a reflection and a debate about loneliness, about independence and how little some citizens actually have to do well with. You have opened one of our most taboo topics today, loneliness, and put it in a political context. Has loneliness increased as a consequence of today's policy? Can we, from a political point of view, do anything to combat loneliness? Yes, of course we can. And here I think it has been fruitful to follow the debate and see how many of you have been brave and have told your stories about your struggle with loneliness. Several have reported that mutual dependants are involved because it is a challenge in everyday life, where it is financially difficult to get the ends to meet, and because despite what your partner says, you feel that you are unequal in your relationship with each other and that you become a strain on the relationship. And then there are also several of you who have told that the rules of mutual dependents are tightening your legs so that you even dare to start a love adventure. You have drawn attention to the fact that there are people in Denmark who are quite unjustly suffering material deprivation. For some, the benefits are already so low that much more is possible than survival, and saving up to old age or unforeseen costs is not an option. Several try this degrading begging walk to the municipality to try to see if they can get some money, but run the risk of being refused, and that the carpet goes away under the family. In the Enhedslisten, we support the basic position of the citizens' proposal and support it. We look forward to a good discussion of the subject in committee. And now I'm out of time, so I'm gonna stop here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141323	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments that need to be made. The first person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted room from Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141331	Thank you for that President-in-Office. I understand from Enhedslisten's rapporteur that this is an important matter for the Enhedslisten. I just don't understand why the Enhedslisten didn't have it in the finance negotiations. The Danish People's Party was involved in the financial law negotiations in 2018, i.e. to increase the base deduction in the set-off system. We got it through, and we raised the bottom allowance from DKK 60,000. to DKK 100,000, and it managed to get it set up to DKK 122,000. We had the rate pool abolished so that there was no longer the percentage regulation where it is cut off on transfer income. Why has the Enhedslisten not been involved in the financial law negotiations? There is not a word on this subject in the Finance Act, and if it has been so important for Enhedslisten, it must have been appropriate to have included it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141415	Thank you for the question and thank you for the criticism. The Enhedslisten, in relation to the understanding paper, has taken the general view on whether benefits are, early retirement pensions and the other parts. There are some settlements, like Mr. Bent Bøgsted is well aware because the Danish People's Party is involved in some of the settlements, and we are not in the Enhedslisten. To the Finance Act we have tried to see how, with the conciliation that is in place and with the agreement that is in place, we can try as best we can within the rules that are and where we cannot change it, because there are some others who are in some conciliation, to go in and do what we can. Among other things, it has. the right to be clarified. We have proposed that we simply turn up compared to social workers in the municipalities so that people who are sick should not be on cash benefits but can be searched either for work, early retirement or other parts. That would be a step in the right direction, but I agree with the rapporteur that it would of course not be a goal, and here it is also about what a negotiating reserve the government has set up for us to negotiate. Here, after all, the amount is one third of what has been negotiated in relation to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141524	I hope that Enhedslisten will be able to hear for himself how it sounds, because the Danish People's Party is not involved in the early retirement reform and the flex job reform. Nor are we involved in any settlement on a national pension, and yet we managed to change the set-off system. Enhedslisten could have done the same if Enhedslisten had been part of a Finance Act. It is said that it is included in the understanding paper "yes," but it is not financial law. It's a statement of intent. The Enhedslisten could have taken it into the financial law negotiations and told the government: we need to get something through in this area, otherwise there is no financial law. The Danish People's Party took it to the Left in 2018 and got it through. It is not certain that the Left was ready for it, but it came through in good cooperation. The Enhedslisten could do the same here, but it just didn't happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141614	Thank you again to the rapporteur for the question. Unfortunately, one lot can't get 100 percent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. It is the case that the government we have now did not have a negotiating reserve in which 12 billion has been set up and negotiated. kr. On the contrary, the proposal was initially less than 3 billion. kr., and it is fortunate that many of the agreements we make are also between the Finance Laws, where there is a budget of almost 1,000 billion. kr., and where we can also look at what we will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141651	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141654	I am almost sorry that I am going to take this step forward, but now we have to take Mrs Velasquez's speech as a rapporteur, and it was a glowing speech for this to be done. The first question I would like to ask is whether the Enhedslisten intends to vote in favour or against if one imagines that this proposal was put to the vote now. That is one question. The second question is where the proposal was at this stage in the budget negotiations, since it means so much to the Enhedslisten. After all, we are talking about an expenditure of over 15 billion. kr. That is the second question. The third question is • one thing is the mutual dependants • what Enhedslisten thinks about the reduction that exists when people move in with the, what can you call it, economies of scale it provides. I do not know whether you can call it "great" when there are two people moving together, but the proven answer is that you are two about expenses. Is that a principle that Enhedslisten can accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141748	Thank you for the question. Just as seriously as we take it that there must be good funding I know that Mr. Karsten Hønge has followed the debate on the Finance Law and therefore knows that it is important for us in the Enhedslisten where the money should come from. I also think that the issues raised in the citizens' proposal are just as important, and that is why we cannot, of course, just vote in favour as the proposal now stands. There is no legal clarification, there is no funding, there is no plan for when and how it should be done. But we take the concern of these citizens seriously, and I actually find that too, Mr President. Karsten Hønge and several other rapporteurs do, that is to say we have to get that work started in committee and have it mapped out, among other things. as Mr. Karsten Hønge has done with one of his questions. But it is clear that when there is no funding, when there is no plan for how, we cannot simply issue a blank cheque and vote in favour. But we support the intention of the proposal. Compared to the other thing with...
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141846	It will be in the next round as the time will be exceeded. So that is the question put to the next question, Mr President. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141853	Yes, I would just like to give Mrs Victoria Velasquez the opportunity to answer that question. However, I would just like to say that I make it clear that this is a very fine rapporteur's speech, but that we are voting against the proposal. I think it is fine to do so, but I just need to make it clear that you are voting against the proposal. One thing is that the proposers do not provide funding, but Enhedslisten could deliver that. But the Enhedslisten says that this is a good proposal, but that you do not have the 15 billion. kr., so you don't do anything. But I just want to hear about the fact that Enhedslisten certainly does not accept this smaller reduction in it when people move in together, that it provides a relief in the household, which makes it possible to have a smaller reduction, which for early retirementists today is 15%. and for old-age pensioners, 20 per cent. I don't want to be smart about where it's supposed to be, but I guess it's around there. What do you say?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205141935	I am actually surprised that the rapporteur makes the speech that the rapporteur chooses to make here. For the rapporteur has also spoken about this, and we have also spoken about it in other places, paying attention to the fact that there are some problems here that we need to address. If we were to reject all citizens' proposals that are not precise in the legal or precise in the financial, we would, of course, drop the whole principle of citizens' proposals. I have talked to the committee secretariat about the need for a good timetable for dealing with this. There are several questions we have not been given an answer to, that is, how much it costs and when the different parts can happen. After all, it is entirely dependent on making a proper proposal and what we would like to ask the government to act on. In relation to the cost, of course, there are some things that you need to have twice if you live in two different places, where you only have to have it once, if you live in one place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142030	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142034	This is interesting. So I can just quietly confirm: the Enhedslisten will vote against this proposal. That's pretty important. Because there are quite a lot of people out there and probably up here in the gallery who think that now the Enhedslisten will vote in favour. That is what the rapporteur said. But the Enhedslisten will vote against because you cannot and will not find that funding. Is it true that that's what I'm hearing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142056	I actually understand that people sometimes get politicians when it is that in this way a motive is shot in the shoes of someone who is not what has been said. What I am saying is that we really want to deal with this, and that is also why we support it. As the rapporteur himself has said, there are some things here where it gets legally mixed up, there is no proposal in relation to funding and very many other parts, and there must also be room for this in a citizens' proposal. This is where we have to take on the task and have it examined. What is this actually about? What laws are being affected? How much money is it gonna cost? Is there an agreement? I'd like some back-up for this. Is there any agreement that we can do some different things? How far can we go here and now, and how can we do that? I think that is only fair and, in fact, it is a way of taking the other parts as seriously as funding, which are the issues outlined here, which are material deprivation, loneliness and other parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142151	But politicians may also be that there are some parties and some politicians who want to do everything, but do not want to finance anything, and then do not just find out whether you are voting for or against. Because that's why we're all asking about it now, because we're confused at a higher level. We do not know whether the Enhedslisten will vote in favour or against. What I heard was that they wanted to vote against, but that in general they think it is all very, very sensible and want to find the money. I think we're all completely confused here, because what does Enhedslisten want? And I understand that people out there are, and I think you should deal with that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142222	I have not said that we will vote against this citizens' proposal. On the contrary, I have said that we support it. What we have said today in relation to the final proposal that we are going to make is that this is really about: what is the funding to be? What should the time course be like? That goes without saying, and I am sure the rapporteur is also well aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142239	The next question is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142243	Now it is a good thing that what we are saying in this Chamber is noted and written down, for the answer to Mr. Karsten Hønge was that Enhedslisten would end up voting against, although the speech was fantastic. Now the answer is to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen saw that Enhedslisten will vote in favour. Fortunately, then, I have a question, because I would like to ask: what will the Enhedslisten actually do in relation to this proposal? It was a fantastic speech, and the politician-led thing can also go on to say that politicians are saying that this is fantastic and that, in the end, we hope that the attention will go a little further because we will end up voting against it because the funding is not there. Because I have not heard that the Enhedslisten has come up with funding that would allow us to vote in favour of this proposal. But what will the Enhedslisten vote on this proposal? That is the really good question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142338	Thank you for clarifying what the rapporteur thinks the other rapporteurs have questioned. What I have said is that we in the Enhedslisten support the basic position in this document, in this citizens' proposal we support it and that we go to the further process of seeing what some things it so specifically affects. This is among other things. (iii) the fact that the members of the family are dependent on cash benefits. Well, it is imprecise in terms of what legal parts it applies. I think we can read from the spirit of what has been written and the argument they use, what they really mean. Similarly, in relation to the economy, some issues have also been raised in the citizens' proposal. How much does it cost when people get divorced and then suddenly they get home help and they shouldn't have it anyway? There are a lot of different economic parts in it. We would like to know what it costs, how we can do it, and also look at the time perspective and how the support should be for it. Then it is clear that it is important for us that the money comes from a real place. If the funding is suddenly to be taken away from someone else who does not have much money, then we cannot support it, and that is the work that needs to start now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142444	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142445	It was a very, very long answer to a precise question, i.e. whether the Enhedslisten will vote for or against this specific proposal, which just in relation to the spouse dependency between folk pensioners and early retirementists costs 12 billion. kr. Then we have not included all the other proposals contained in this proposal. Then the Enhedslisten will vote for or against this proposal, which will cost at least 12 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142517-2	However, the rapporteur himself shows that he is in doubt about what this is about. In the citizens' proposal, they do not ask that they should receive the same benefits as people who are single. It just wants the same service without being offset, and that means that it will not cost 12.3 billion. kr. It is still going to cost a lot of money, I have no doubt about that at all, but it shows precisely that there are no answers to the questions we need to know the final result.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142544	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142549	Thank you for a good speech, and thank you for Enhedslisten's constructive will to find a way here. I think it has been very interesting to follow the debate, also because one might ask: is it not the case that there may in fact be an opening to this? Does the rapporteur also see that perhaps we are in fact enough to try to get it started, so that we can start to put it in place with regard to those situations where it is not worthwhile to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142618	Thank you to the rapporteur for that question. I see several different openings, and I also think it is important that you do not just pour the proposal down the board, as I can hear there are more who still tend to. Then it may well be that I am being pressured into finding funding for something that we do not even know what costs or where we do not exactly have the answers to what needs to be. But I just have to say that I think the least we can do on the basis of this citizens' proposal is to try to clarify the questions that are missing answers to. If this gives rise to new questions, we must ask them so that we can actually get it mapped out and find out what it costs. It has obviously not been possible for the proposers to get answers to those questions either, nor have we received answers to all the questions for today. So I just hope that politics can also be that we have visions, because if we only see everything that can go wrong, then we will get nowhere. I know it may be a tricky path, but sometimes we have to go towards one direction and see how we can get to it. So thank the rapporteur for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142719	Sir. Torsten Gejl? There was no desire for another question. But there is one more question from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142729	In a few weeks' time Parliament will either have to press the green button, which means voting for the citizens' proposal, or on the red button, which means voting against the citizens' proposal. What will the Enhedslisten vote for when that day comes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142756	As things stand now, we will vote on the green button. What is important to us is that a path is laid in relation to how this is to be done. Where is it that legislation needs to be changed? How are we going to find funding and the different parts? Because if we all just vote for the green button without making any preparatory work for it, it will mean that it is the government that has to find out how to do it, and they must have a majority in favour of it. So I also think that we should use the timetable that is now coming and the work that is being done to try to see precisely: are there any openings? Is there any way that we can start this work where we can see that there is a majority for some of them? I hope so. Now I do not know what the position of the Liberal Alliance is yet, but I think there have been some tactics earlier today showing some openings to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142841	It sounded like the rapporteur was saying something wrong. The rapporteur said that as things stand now, the Enhedslisten will press the green Is it correct to understand that this will be done by Enhedslisten, in other words will vote in favour of the citizens' proposal on the green button?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142859	We need to have this dealt with by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which will come up with amendments, and now we need to see what amendments will be supported. There are several of us who are doing a job of mapping out: how much is this going to cost? When should the different parts be implemented? I hope that it will be possible for us to find a good way of doing that. I cannot say that tomorrow we have 20, 30, 15 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142943	There is just one more brief comment. It's for mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142948	Can the rapporteur confirm that the rapporteur said to Mr Seligman a short while ago? Karsten Hønge, that you would not vote for this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205142958	Well, I think it's a little too bad that you're just pouring it down the board and not trying to listen to what I'm saying. It is clear, then, that the way in which funding is going to be is crucial to whether we vote in favour or not. That's the way it is with a lot of things. There may be things that we support, but if funding comes from something bad, we will not support it. Those reservations have to be taken into account, and I think that is only fair to say. We will go to this proposal as well as possible in order to uncover these various issues and see what we can get support for so that we can actually improve some of those conditions. We take seriously the concern raised in this citizens' proposal. So, as things stand now with the citizens' proposal before us, we support the basic idea that I support it, but there is not a specific legislative proposal with the legal part, funding and all the things, and that is why, of course, I take the reservation that, depending on how the final result is going to be, we are leaning to support the proposal, but I have to see what we are going to end up on. I can't just blindly give you a blank cheque like that. That's what I was trying to say to Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143101	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143102	With all due respect, it is precisely because we are listening that we do not understand it. They say that they will vote against and then they say that they will vote in favour. And now we understand that the Enhedslisten will come up with an amendment which might be supported. But that also means, at the same time, that we do not support the original resolution, but that we support our own amendment. Can the rapporteur understand that it is precisely because we are listening to what the rapporteur says that we are asking questions about different positions coming from the platform within five minutes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143135	That is actually very clear. We support the citizens' proposal. We basically think that this is a good idea; we think that is important. After all, the citizens' proposal does not contain a plan for how it should be done, what legal changes should be made and where funding should come from. They themselves write explicitly that they do not know what the economic scope of this agreement is, and therefore it is clear that this work must begin so that we know what the final result will be. It is, of course, part of the tasks we have here in the Danish Parliament, so to put it into practice, so that it can be dealt with legally, and we must of course take a concrete look at what it is that lies as a proposal for financing and the other parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143213	Thank you. And a few brief remarks are still missing. We're going to sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143217	Thank you. I'm confused. In the speech made by the rapporteurs not to the MFs here, but to the 50,000 or more who signed the citizens' bill there was not a single reservation. Now there are reservations, and again: so, will we vote yes to the proposal or no to the proposal if we vote on it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143246	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. I do not know whether the rapporteur was in the Chamber all the time. Because what happened was that my speaking time expired, and the last thing that was missing in the speech, I will use my speaking time to read it out. In the Enhedslisten, we support the basic position of the citizens' proposal and support it. We look forward to the further discussion of the subject. As the authors themselves write, several parts have yet to be elucidated and mapped out. This is, of course, necessary if we are to ask the government to act on this. But if we expect a citizen's proposal to have all legal and economic parts in place at its birth, then the whole concept behind the citizens' proposals will be set in motion. We are also working on a good timetable so that it can be dealt with properly and with the seriousness it deserves. Thank you to the rapporteur for giving me the opportunity to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143339	So the Enhedslisten will vote red... no... to the proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143346	Now I am new to the Folketing, but as far as I understand, we are not going to vote today. We have to say whether we support it or not, and there can be many amendments. This is needed in concrete terms in relation to the legal parts and the economic aspects, so we need to see the final agreement in order to know whether we are backing or not. As it looks right now, we are positive and supportive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143410	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143415	Thank you. It's actually just to get some clarification. Because I heard the rapporteur say that we cannot all just vote green, because then it will require the government to find funding, which is extremely expensive. Isn't it free for Enhedslisten to answer Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's question and say that the intention is to vote green? For there has already been a majority of rapporteurs up to say that the proposal here is very good. I myself have been up to say that there are some gender issues, but I ended by saying that we have to reject the citizens' proposal because it is extremely expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143458	No, I actually think it's taking it seriously. We're not going to vote today. We state whether we are positive or negative about the proposal. I think it has given a lot to hear where there are some places we can open up and where there are other places we can't. Among other things: That the Radical Left can see some of the problems in terms of equality. It is precisely for us to be able to look at, in the further reading, where it is that we have to go in and do it. We are not voting on this specific proposal. We must have the first reading and the second reading and have it in committee and all sorts of things, so the rapporteur is well aware that this is not the end. By taking the citizens' proposal seriously, I hope we will work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143538	Then there are no more brief remarks to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143554	This resolution comes on the basis of a citizen's proposal which, within the prescribed time limit, has obtained the number of statements of support required. It is proposed to remove the mutual dependants of early retirement, old-age pensioners and others affected by the mutual dependency. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that the interdependence is a matter of fairness. You have to support yourself and your loved ones before you go to the neighbor and ask for money. That is our basic position. We fully recognise that it can be frustrating for some citizens to be drawn into their income. In the Conservative People's Party, however, we believe that the most just thing is that those who have the least are given the most. It contributes to mutual dependency. Then, during the debate, there have been comments about cases in which the mutual dependent can stand in the way of making it worthwhile to get to work. We'd like to take a look at that. There have also been comments on equality, and we would also like to look at that. All in all, however, we do not support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143719	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur on the platform is the alternative rapporteur, Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205143732	Thank you, President. The proposal for the removal of mutual dependants is a citizens' proposal which has received 63.372 signatures. It is the citizens' proposal that has received the third most signatures of the eight citizens' proposals, which have received over 50,000 signatures and are therefore to be dealt with in this Chamber. This is only surpassed by the proposal for the abolition of ministerial pensions and the proposal for the Climate Act. It is clear that, when it is we in the Alternative who have taken the initiative to introduce the law on citizens' proposals, well helped by all the parties of the Folketing, we feel of course a special gratitude to all those who engage in democracy and sign important matters so that they end up in this Chamber. For the time being, one of the proposals that have been made as a citizen's proposal has found a majority and has just been financed by the Finance Act, namely the proposal to abolish the education ceiling. Admittedly, it did not find a majority in the House, but as early as two months later a majority in the Danish Parliament emerged in order to abolish the education ceiling, which came as a citizen's proposal. For me, it is quite clear that it was the citizens who set the agenda and the politicians who listened, even though it took a few months of incubation. However, in addition to thanking you out there, who have engaged you in the abolition of the mutual dependent, I would like to call on all politicians in this Chamber to take the citizens' proposals seriously in general. Christiansborg's walls can seem extremely thick for so-called ordinary people, and we get a lot of criticism for being closed. But as Leonard Cohen says, there's a crack in everything, and that's where the light comes in. It is important that citizens' proposals are a crack in Christiansborg's thick walls, where the wishes of the Danes can enter. That is why it pains me a little to see that this proposal is to some extent being poured down the board instead of finding the necessary support on the basis of so many people's calls. The demand of all those who want to abolish the mutual dependent does not disappear simply because we are ignoring it. Behind all the figures that have been mentioned today, there are thousands of living people with living stories who, because of a 1926 law, are left in a situation where they cannot live their lives as they would like. For example: A Facebook Group, called the Total Elimination of Mutual Dependencies, has sent us all a booklet of stories about the consequences for human life when they are affected by the mutual dependent. I cannot read from the stories because they are confidential, but my colleagues in this Chamber can read them. And if there are no further examples of the mutual dependents taking away important opportunities in life, then the stories are flourishing everywhere in the media. Some of the stories that make the most of me are those in which people who love each other have to give up living together because of the mutual dependants, for example. when an early retirement person finds love harder because she or he will become a financial burden if he or she moves with his or her boyfriend, or when two people who love each other have to part because the economy becomes too tight. In other cases, people find that it is not worthwhile to work because their income is set off in the spouse's or girlfriend's pension. I think it is a little cynical that we are leaving so little hope today in relation to a legitimate wish that has such massive support among the people. I am well aware that just abolishing the mutual dependents in relation to pension and early retirement costs 12 billion. kr. I mean, that's four times what we've been negotiating in the Finance Act. But then I feel like I'm asking, "Where are the ideas to get this started?" After all, we hear that the argument is that a few will get more if we abolish the mutual dependent. Well, can't we start with those who have the least? Then it costs less. You could start with those who have been hit by the ceiling on cash benefits. So I am a little disappointed that there is so little sensitivity to this proposal among parties that it is necessary to get support from if this proposal is to go through. However, I am just so pleased that the issue of mutual dependents is being dealt with here in the Assembly, and I see it as the start of a long process in which we must keep up the steam and examine all the details about the abolition of the mutual dependents in order to mature the mood of the people and the mood of politicians here, that we must somehow abolish it here in the long term. But interesting things have also happened today, I think. I think it sounds as if there could be a majority in favour of abolishing that part of the mutual dependency which means that it is not worthwhile to work. I find that interesting. I think that is a really, really good starting point for going ahead in committee and seeing whether we really could not get this going in some way, so this citizen's proposal has really meant something, at least in terms of how it should pay to work. Now work is not the most important thing in life. It is important that work is important, but I think love is more important, so in the alternative, we would like to look at the possibility of achieving it altogether. But we are in any case pleased with the developments which have so far taken place today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144244	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144248	I myself have explained in the SF's speech in which areas SF believes it should take some concrete steps and we have also proposed it where it is possible to reduce partner dependency as it really is. But I'd like to clean it up again. It was a very emotional speech that was made about this, and now it is not the first time we have discussed it, but what does the alternative end up with? Firstly, will you vote in favour or against when this proposal comes to the vote in a few weeks' time? Secondly, what directions would the rapporteur think he could point out in order to find funding for the at least 15 billion? kr., to be found? Thirdly, mention is made here of the advantages of being two together in relation to living together two singles, and whether or not it should be 15%. or the 20%, as I have said sometimes, I am not going to make myself smart, but there is some kind of economic advantage in moving together. What do you say about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144347	It is therefore difficult to remember so many questions at once, but the rapporteur now has the opportunity to come back to it. So, I think there is a button that the rapporteur has forgotten, and that is what we call the yellow button. It is a button that we often use in the alternative if a proposal is difficult to understand and does not seem completely clear and if it is the case that there is no funding at all. So it could be a variant we use here. However, I think it is much more exciting, and I hope that the rapporteur also thinks that we can pursue the possibility that we may in fact be able to abolish the part of mutual dependants which prevents people from making money working. The second question is whether there are some who, because they are experiencing economies of scale, are, in fact, fairly affected by mutual dependencies. I'll have to check that out. I would think that in reality it is far, by far, most of those who experience the advantage that may be one of those who have the least allerelles. And then I don't have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144453	Well, that's quite right, sir. Torsten Gejl says that there is just a yellow button, and it also expects SF to press. But the discussion is interesting in relation to Enhedslisten, who now expects to vote green, but lives on the hope that the rest will vote red, so you can get through on such a bath ticket. And there I can hear that there is, after all, such more consistency in Mr. Torsten Gejl's argument that as it may seem incalculable, one expects to vote yellow. I'll buy that explanation. However, I would like to say that the rapporteur is mixing up some things here. Mutually dependent here, of course, is nothing to do with the large-scale reduction in benefits which can be found in the 15%.; it has nothing to do with each other. We are talking about the advantage that can be of moving in together. It has nothing to do with mutual dependants.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144533	I was sorry to see how Enhedslisten had to be pulled through such a time of political teasing, where one did not focus on the content at all in any way; one only focused on whether the rapporteur was • a new rapporteur who is welcome in the Danish Parliament had come to say some vagueness at some point. I think it is distasteful, and I think it is a pity that we should spend time on it. I am also sorry if I did not understand the question put by the questioner well enough to answer it with economies of scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144605	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144609	Thank you for that, President. I understand the rapporteur of the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl is such that the alternative in this way is very interested in and would actually have voted in favour of this proposal. It's okay, too. There are a lot of good things in the proposal. That is also what I said myself. But there are two questions. If it is so important that the alternative was included in the finance negotiations, then I have found out why the alternative did not take up any of this in the financial negotiations. There has never been any room for manoeuvre before; it was said that there are only 4 billion. kr. to negotiate. In other words, those who had some work to do, whether it was a spouse who was on the labour market or a pensioner who had some work to do, got more home. We raised that from DKK 60,000 to DKK 100,000, and it was raised again from DKK 100,000 to DKK 122,000, and the alternative rapporteur asks: could we just get it started? It's starting. But why didn't the alternative bring anything more along and say: we need something more along that path; that's the way we should go? It was possible to do so in the context of the Finance Act, but it did not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144724	Thank you. That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144725	I would like to congratulate the DF on any result that ensures a little more money between the people who have the least money. I like that every time. As far as the financial law negotiations are concerned, the rapporteur knows very well that as a party with five mandates and with the history that we have been given we are not included in the understanding paper... we do not come to the financial law negotiations and say: we need just 12 billion. kr., when the room we are negotiating is 3 billion. kr. Well, that should be logic for chickens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144801	It wasn't the 12 billion either. kr., we talked about, it was about taking one more step it might be 300-400 million. kr., had been taken to pay for being part of the Finance Act. I am sure the Minister for Finance would have said: well, let us look at the requirements of the Alternative, because they must surely also have suffered here. But you didn't. It was possible to get what is just nothing in the Finance Act to lift it for folk pensioners and early retirement pensioners, nor for cash benefits recipients for that matter; it says something about awaiting that benefit commission. But there's nothing there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144841	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144842	Thank you. I have not been aware of the incredibly interesting opening which I think has arisen today, where, in fact, on the basis of this citizens' proposal, there is an opportunity to cooperate in perhaps ensuring that those people for whom it means a reduction in income are not actually affected by mutual dependants. It's not an idea I actually had before this debate, so it's been very old.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144911	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Ole Birk Olesen asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205144916	Well, this is the finance bill thing. Because it is quite true what the Danish People's Party questioner says here, namely that this is where you find out how to use the economy that is available. After all, that is where the finances of the year will be determined, next year's finances. And if the alternative is not involved in giving priority to 200-300 million. kr. For this purpose, but instead of going down here in Parliament and pretending to be something that you think is important, people are being deceived. If, in fact, the alternative in the financial law negotiations would rather spend money on some other things, it is because you think the other things are much more important than this, and then this has to be another time, and then you can stand down here in the Chamber pretending to be a big, big supporter of a citizens' proposal that you are not willing to give priority to in the financial law negotiations. What is being said is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145016	I see it as a cozy political joke. Firstly, the rapporteur knows very well that the alternative will not be able to raise EUR 0.5 billion. kr., which it may in fact cost to exempt them from whom it is not worthwhile to work. Secondly, the rapporteur himself has been in a majority for many years, and it is not, after all, every single, only thing the rapporteur has argued for in the Chamber, which the rapporteur has also been adamant about in the Finance Act. It's always a priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145045	Well, I got it, sir. Torsten Gejl's speech so that this was a matter of heart that it really was something that mattered. That's what I could hear in the tone and in the words. For example, when we in the Liberal Alliance have gone to a financial bill debate, we had. a desire to do away with something, let us take the registration tax on cars. It had to be completely abolished and it cost 7 billion. kr. We got 200 million. kr. We were happy about that, because with them we could actually achieve quite a lot. So the question is: why does the alternative not do anything just to get a small part of the money to be spent on this purpose if it really is the alternative so much at heart?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145123	I think that if we should have taken all that really matters to our heart, we should have had eight financial laws to spend money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145134	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the alternative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145143	I'd like to invite the Danish Parliament and all of you who are listening at home to a thought experiment. Imagine we had to create a whole new system. Imagine that there was no social security system that could hold hands under people. Imagine that we had the freedom to set up a system from scratch in the way we here in 2019 seem to make sense. Well, imagine we should start over. What would we do? Would we create a system that gave people an economic incentive not to be together? Would we create a system that would put people at a disadvantage if they chose to stay together as families? Would we create a system that would make people wonder if they could afford to try love? No, right? Of course we wouldn't. But that is what has been created. We have a system in which people can potentially benefit from being supported by others instead of being self-sufficient. We have a system in which people are constantly monitored, controlled and evaluated. And we've got a system where people who are in contact with the system see the system more as a opponent than a co-player. This has probably not been the intention of the many laws, regulations and regulations that have come from the Folketing, but step by step we have moved closer to where we are now, with a system created by changing Parliament, a system that has grown bigger and bigger and simply does not work. We, who are here in the Folketing, will have to address that. The responsibility falls on us. We have reached for responsibility ourselves. That is why New Citizens say it clearly: we are opposed to the current system and the mutual obligation created by the system, and that is why it must be removed. So don't we want people to take responsibility for each other? Yes, absolutely. Do we not, then, want to take care of each other in the families? Yes, absolutely. And can we introduce a full lifting of the mutual obligation directly into the current system, as this citizens' proposal wants? No, you can't. The bill would certainly be large, so large that the Ministry of Employment has announced that they need more time with the Ministry of Finance to clarify the economic consequences, both positive and negative. For there are three options: either you can raise the tax and let others pay more, or you can lower the state's spending so that it releases funds, and a third option is to make reforms that make the cake bigger and thus create the economic space to make these changes. In New Citizens we do not like the first solution to raise taxes. It deprives other families of more of their freedom so that politicians can give it to others. It requires more state, less human. That is why we want a combination of the last two. By reducing taxes and taxes and by reducing and eliminating all the unnecessary in the public sector, resources will be released, while growth will increase considerably through tax cuts. In short, the cake is getting bigger. Reform also needs to be done. Reforms to free up funds are necessary. It doesn't have to be that hard. We say this clearly: public services must be for Danish citizens only. It will free up funds while we do not have to worry that people who come here will be an economic burden for Denmark. And when citizens have more money for themselves, they are given both more freedom and more ownership over their own lives and their family lives. We can do that without asking others to pay for it. Because would it not be wonderful if we set up a society in which citizens were not deeply dependent on the goodwill of politicians, every time life takes a turn, and at the same time a society where there was room and surplus to help themselves and each other? Remember, when you think it is the State and the politicians who are responsible for the task, you hand in your freedom and your own authority at the door of the Parliamentary Chamber. That is why we say in New Citizens: let us now have a fight with decades of failed politics, and let us now start putting the citizens ahead of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145705	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205145713	The Liberal Alliance will vote against the motion for a resolution. We are in favour of the principle of supporting one another in the family before asking the public for help. This principle is applied by looking at the spouse who has something left over financially. Can he provide for the spouse who is unable to support himself? If so, it is part of being a family that you support yourself and yours. So that's a good principle. After all, the price of doing this is completely incalculable. Apart from the fact that we are in favour of this at the level of principle, these are at least 12 billion. kr. So really, really much money in a financial law context. It is possible to point out reforms that could free the money, and the Liberal Alliance has pointed out, for other purposes, many reforms that could be carried out, which could free up money to ease the tax burden on people. But I still benefit from seeing the Alternative or Enhedslisten or some of the other parties on the far left find 12 billion. kr. in public finances. It has never succeeded. I've only heard them say they can use that kind of money, not that they can find that kind of money. So I don't believe that. Let me also say that there are some families who have the luxury of one spouse making so much money that the other spouse can go home. It is not the case that the spouse who goes home is on cash benefits, because they simply have too much income for that. But some of the families live up the Strandvejen, and this is where you have the profit to not have both spouses at work. This proposal will mean that up there along Strandvejen, where the Mercedes are queued after the Audies and the Tesla on the roads, you will now be able to go down to the social office and ask for your cash benefits on top of all the money you already have. I find it mysterious that there are people who think that this is a good way to spend the money. We will never vote for such a thing, but it is so evidently the new class struggle here in the Folketing, so that these are the things you want to spend the money that people who go to work as cashier, metal worker and cleaning clerk earn. Well, congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150009	Thank you, and there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150013	Thank you for your speech and for LA's temporary interest in cleaning workers. However, if we are to clear up the teasing aside, one can say that there is a picture that there might well be a future cooperation to free families from mutual obligations if that is the case that it means that they do not lose money working so if there are some situations where mutual obligations actually mean that people refrain from working because it is not worthwhile. Will the rapporteur, like many other parties, be able to take a positive view of perhaps exempting them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150054	I think it sounds like the wrong way to go. Our way to go is to lower the tax on going to work, and if you care that working also in these families is not worthwhile, you should agree with our suggestion that no one should pay tax on the first DKK 7,000 they earn every month. So no one who goes to work has to pay taxes on the first 7,000 kroner they make every month. It would also be helpful to these families to get something extra out of going to work because they are not taxed by the first DKK 7.000.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150125	If it were to go so far as to fail the rapporteur to get it through like this right here around the corner, would it not be possible for LA to vote in favour of abolishing mutual liability where it has the consequence that it is not worth the Danes to work and therefore not pay taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150143-2	I think that we should constantly focus on what the situation is like, so that it pays to work for as many people as possible and preferably for all people. If a thorough analysis from the Ministry of Employment and Taxation tells us that this is the right way to go over all kinds of other roads, then we are open to it. But it requires someone to say that the right way to go is to do something about the mutual commitment in selected cases. Until then, we believe that the best way to go is to lower the tax for people who go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150217	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150220	Thank you. We are approaching Christmas, of course, and the teasers may be a little busy, but Mr. Ole Birk Olesen really that a couple who live in a beach road villa with an expensive Mercedes, perhaps two expensive cars, and where the wife or husband goes home, while the other has a very large income with home, should make themselves available for cash assistance and thus down to the job center and make themselves available and sent out for activation in cleaning jobs or in Netto, or where they are now sent in activation for work testing? I don't suppose that was seriously meant by Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Must be a bit of a joke right here for Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150305	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150306	Well, that cannot be ruled out, and we have seen examples of how we can avoid the fact that we have to be available for the labour market, with some standard applications sometimes a week. The Danish Employers' Association often asks people certain questions, including whether they are actually looking for work, whether they are available for work, etc., and there are people who are actually not available for the labour market, but still receive cash assistance without being sanctioned. So you could imagine finding out on Strandvejen. They have good lawyers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150346	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150350	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the cashier and the metal worker, and then I just want to hear whether the rapporteur recognises that security actually means something to employees, that is to say it is actually important to know that if you lose your job and become unemployed or if you are affected by an accident at work and become ill or otherwise, there is no social deroute, but you still have financial security. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150420	I do not recognise that if you lose your job, you have to have the same economic basis as before you lost your job. There has to be a difference between being at work and not being at work. I know that Enhedslisten has such ideas that people will go to work, whether it pays off or not. I don't have that show. When you introduced all these systems in the 1960s and 1970s, you had the idea in broad circles that people would just go to work automatically. Now we have spent almost a few decades wiping out that performance and trying to do it in such a way that it pays better to go to work, but I am aware that Enhedslisten has not quite followed time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150505	Does the questioner wish to make a second comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150507	Then it is funny that, despite the fact that Denmark relatively compared to other countries is among those with the highest social benefits, we also have the highest productivity and one of the highest employment rates. Perhaps it is the rapporteur who has not quite followed. But I am just thinking that we know that for many people there is security in knowing that if you are affected by unemployment or if you are affected by illness, you actually have the opportunity to obtain an income. And cash benefits, for example, have been a percentage; you have not been overcompensated in relation to your work. Perhaps the rapporteur does not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150545	Compared with other countries in the Western world, we have not particularly high productivity in Denmark, but we have a high level of employment, as the questioner says, and this is because we have developed a tradition in Denmark that a very large proportion of women also women who have children are in work. It is thanks to these care arrangements that we have, but it is also thanks to the fact that it is difficult for families to make things run around the country with the world's second highest tax burden, without there being two going to work. So, our high tax burden makes it difficult for families to keep a home even if they want to for periods, they find it difficult in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150629	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. We are now through the rapporteur's line and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150649	The debate is open. The first one we get on the platform is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205150717	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the opportunity to make a comment on the motion by the Danish People's Party. By the end of the 2019-20 parliamentary year, that is, the year we are in, the Danish People's Party wants to impose on the government a bill that makes it optional for public non-governmental claimants, such as: the municipalities, DSB and others, to take over responsibility for their debts. This is an extension of the agreement entered into in the debt-to-debt conciliation circle that municipal-owned utilities should be able to opt for private recovery with the possibility of passing on the collection costs to debtors instead of public recovery through the Debt Board, which is, of course, responsible for it today. This is Bill L 64, and it has been tabled on 15 November 2019. According to the Danish People's Party, the reason for the proposal is that among other non-governmental claimants, including the municipalities in particular, there is a desire to take responsibility for recovering their claims themselves. It is the opinion of the Danish People's Party that the proposal will provide for the possibility of recovering more debts until the new recovery system is fully operational, and that since the acquisition in 2017, the municipalities have effectively recovered their preferential claims, i.e.: municipal property taxes and other claims owed on the immovable property. The examination of the acute IT problems of the tax administration in the field of recovery has given us a real picture of the most acute problems we are facing here. The recovery of effective public recovery is, of course, an essential and high priority, not only for me, but for the entire government, and I hope it is also for the whole Folketing. That is why we need to put together a comprehensive and realistic plan to get the debt recovery back on track. The recovery plan will last for many years, and it will also address the new debt created, linking public creditors to the new IT system and, above all, cleaning up the old system. The status is that the new recovery system is largely completed with all essential functionalities for recovering debt, and the system is now in use by the Debt Board. Already connected approx. 80 public creditors of the system, including DSB, mentioned in the motion for a resolution. The Ministry of Taxation is also in close dialogue with KL and the municipalities to get the municipalities prepared and connected to the new recovery system within the next few years. This is a comprehensive and very complex work which requires the municipalities and their suppliers to give priority to the necessary resources for work. In this respect, it is very important to ensure that the data quality of the claims sent for recovery complies with the regulatory requirements. At the same time, this is the prerequisite for the effective recovery of the demands of the municipalities. The Debt Board has two of the most effective recovery tools in the form of offsetting during recovery and wage retention. Both are based on a comprehensive IT support with integrations between several tax administration systems. These recovery tools will not be applicable to the municipalities and other non-governmental claimants. In addition, the recovery of other municipal arrears is subject to other rules and processes which are not comparable to those applicable to the preferential requirements, i.e.: the property taxes. Thus, the possibilities for recovery of their other arrears by the municipalities will be considerably limited by the transfer of the recovery task. That's why the government can't support this proposal. Having said that, however, I basically agree with the intentions behind the proposal, because it is absolutely essential that we get the collection of public debt up in gear and that it is strengthened so that the provision of debt during recovery can be reduced. In this context, I would just like to point out that public creditors, including the municipalities, already have quite a wide range of opportunities to strengthen their collection of claims, including outsourcing the collection task to private operators, as long as the tasks do not involve the exercise of authority. Thus, the claimants may have private operators carry out, for example, the calculation of claims, the dispatch of reminders, telephone calls or the conclusion of settlement arrangements prior to the actual recovery of the debt. I would very much like to call on the public creditors, including the municipalities, to consider whether they can do more at the collection stage to ensure that citizens and companies pay their debts to the public sector. The government is also prepared to call KL for a discussion on this in a continuing mutual commitment between the tax administration and the municipalities. To conclude, we expect to present a comprehensive plan for the recovery of the collection and recovery areas in the spring. look at measures to prevent debt and to further simplify the rules. This is all something that we will be discussing in the broad circle of agreements, because all parties are involved. And I also expect many of the elements highlighted by the Danish People's Party in their proposals to be elements that we will be turning around in the discussions we will have this spring. However, as I said, the government cannot support the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151337	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151341	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. I think we can agree on this and I actually think that most Danes agree that it is not sustainable that we can just see that the debt is rising and rising. I think the figure is up to 125 billion. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. Of course, it is not sustainable that we as Danes should sit and watch that the debt just rises and rises, because of course it goes beyond the social contract we have. The Minister is, of course, right that the most effective tool is wage retention, but there is no such function. Well, it doesn't work. There is, as far as I am aware, one of the 98 municipalities connected to this system, so the possibility of using the most efficient tool is not there, and that is why I am proposing with this resolution that the municipalities should be allowed not to choose to say that they want to do it themselves. I find it difficult to see why such a provision could not be put into play, because if it can help relieve the tax administration, it is surely a quite good and sensible solution that can make people pay more off their debts. Why not say yes to such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151446-2	As I said, the Debt Authority today has these two very, very effective instruments for recovery, namely offsetting and keeping wages. It's in the new system and it's running in the new system. As we have also discussed in the contract circle about this, the challenge, as I also said here, is to connect, for example, the municipalities and other public creditors, as it is called the bodies on which the citizens have debts. It's a huge task. I am ready to look at new ways of reducing public debt, and I am actually looking forward to the discussions we are going to have. These are discussions that are not new, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is also a discussion that has been going on for several years in this area of agreement. But we are going to have discussions on how we can work out a strategy together so that we can reduce this debt, because it is unsustainable, and it is untenable that it develops as it does, and that is why we need to focus more on it, and there will certainly be some of the kicks we get in it, too, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær says here that we will be able to use in those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151557-2	In any case, I would like to thank you for those statements; we can then talk about it there. I noticed that the Minister said in his opening speech that it could take a few years not a few months, within this year or during 2020, but a few years to connect the municipalities. As I have already said, it is one municipality which is linked to one type of debt, and this suggests that there is a fairly long prospect of using the most effective method of recovery, namely wage retention. And then the question is what to do in the intervening period, and of course there may be more tools, such as: more manual recovery, which I also think could be positive. But why not give the municipalities the opportunity that they themselves can take over if they want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151634-2	I think it's important to stick to the fact that there's a core now, a system that works and that runs and where the effective tools, i.e. wage retention and set-off, are tools that are in the box of this system. It's not something anyone else can get. However, if we are to have an effective recovery system, I think it is important that we are careful to cut the ties, whether you want to or whether the questioner wants to. I think that's important. That is why I think it is important to stick to the main strategy. One can easily and I would very much like to be involved in this, and the government has already signalled it, discussing what we can do further, because there is no doubt that this needs to be speeded up, and those who are responsible for being connected must, as I said, also pay more attention to the fact that this is the time for this to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151725	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no more brief comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur on the floor is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205151739	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has been tabled by the Danish People's Party, as mentioned, and thank you for it. It is a desire to impose a bill on the government which makes it optional for public non-governmental creditors, such as: the municipalities, DSB and others; to take over responsibility for their debts. Basically, the Social Democratic Party agrees with the good intention that the collection of public debt should be strengthened so as to reduce the rise in debt during recovery. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen the debt recovery far from working as it should, and that is among other things. due to problems encountered in the IT system EFI. Today, citizens and companies in Denmark have debts to the public sector amounting to about 122 billion. kr., and debt grows. There is a market value, i.e. a value where it is estimated that about 20 billion. kr. Of this money can be recovered. We can get really, very much well-being for that money and, of course, the situation is completely untenable. It is also important for the Social Democrats to emphasise that the recovery of public recovery is one of the main priorities of the government. However, if we are to succeed, and that must be the case, then we also need a long-term and holistic plan to get our debt recovery back on track. And all other things being equal, it must be preferable that the already complicated recovery of debt recovery into the public sector should, as a starting point, be brought together with one state authority, and in this case it is the Debt Board. In addition, public creditors, including municipalities, already have good opportunities to strengthen their collection of claims and to outsource the collection tasks to private operators, as long as the tasks do not include the exercise of authority. I also believe, as the Minister said, that it is important for the municipalities to consider whether they can do more at the collection stage to ensure that citizens and companies pay their debts to the public. In addition, it should also be mentioned that what is really important is that the tax minister will present a comprehensive plan for the recovery of the collection and recovery areas in the spring, where among other things. to look at measures to prevent debt and to further simplify the rules. This is an effort that I look very much forward to, and I am quite sure that we need to use new tools. For example, we need to look at how we can prevent this debt from arising at all, and we also need to look at how we can combine it with active social policy, education policy and employment policy. That is why we do not think that the time has come to make a few changes to the rules, and that is why the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution here at this stage. And I should also like to welcome the Radical Left and say that it is also true of the Radical Left that they cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152051	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152055	Thank you for the floor. I know that the rapporteur is aware of the fact that the municipalities already have the opportunity to collect, among other things. I am sorry, and indeed I have had a huge success with it. As far as I remember from some articles I have read, Roskilde has mentioned that they have actually recovered 90 per cent. of all debts in this area. They say they actually want to be allowed to recover more of the municipal debt themselves. I am just wondering whether the rapporteur is not impressed by the fact that there are actually some tasks in the municipalities today and that they are brilliantly successful in doing so. This is contrary to what is said, namely that it is someone who is responsible, and it is the state which cannot find out, and where the debt is now well over 120 billion. kr. Does this not lead the rapporteur to reflect a little about the fact that when the municipalities actually have huge success and want the task, it might well be that they should be given the opportunity to have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152146	It certainly makes an impression and debt is unsustainable, as has been said. Something has to be done. New paths must also be found. However, I also note that there is a new recovery system, PSRM, which is close to being fully developed and where the claimants must be associated, among other things. the municipalities as well. I heard the rapporteur quite rightly say at an earlier stage that there is still a long way to go. But that's the way we're going. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that the best and most rational thing, also from the perspective of the future, will be that we have, as a starting point, one state authority in charge of debt recovery, and that it is precisely the Debt Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152229	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152230	I guess it's a little easy to say that you're close to being finished. In other words, we have received a note from the Committee on Taxation and I read it as if there are some of the parts that are not expected to be finished at all. Then, of course, you can ask what it is close to. Well, I actually noticed that the rapporteur said in his speech that it was important that only one had the task and that it was the state. I am a little surprised, then, that the Social Democrats have actually agreed that municipal utilities should now be allowed to have exactly the same model. They may choose to say that they would like to use private ones to recover it. So what's doing it? It is thought that it is the state that should do it, and private supplies should nevertheless be allowed. The municipalities aren't allowed. Municipal supplies may be allowed, but then the municipalities must not be allowed to do this themselves. Isn't that a little difficult?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152313	It is also the case, as I said, that there are already private creditors who have the opportunity to go out with the inventory of claims, the dispatch of reminders, telephone calls, the setting-up of payment arrangements and settlement arrangements, etc. prior to recovery. Finally, I would like to say that it is just really important to conclude that the debt is unsustainable and that something needs to be done. Of course, we have to look at a debt of more than 120 billion. kr. I don't want to be able to do it. And the debt that can be taken home must of course be taken home for the benefit of the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152401	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152411	Today we are addressing the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, B 18. It is a proposal that is in line with another legislative proposal that we are dealing with, namely L 64, in which we give utilities the opportunity to take advantage of, for example. of private debt collection companies to recover debts. This proposal goes so little further than that and says it must also apply to other public non-governmental creditors, such as: municipalities or DSB. We in the Left have fundamental sympathy for the proposal. For there is no doubt that we in the Left welcome regulatory simplifications and measures that enable public creditors to recover the money that people owe them in the most effective way. However, there is also one but the first priority in this area right now must be the recovery of the entire tax administration, including the debt area. And we can honestly fear that this proposal can help shake the bag a little too much and help prevent the effective reconstruction of the tax authorities, and of course we cannot help it. Having said that, I think it is essential to point out to the municipalities that the state has largely failed them by taking away a task from them and saying that it could be better done, and then shown that it could not be solved better anyway. Fortunately, a new system has now taken some steps to get this task done better and more effectively in the future, so that the municipalities too can recover the debt that people have to them. In relation to the recovery of the tax administration and debt recovery, we are afraid that if 98 different systems with 98 different ways of recovering debt are operated, then we risk that it will be a little bit complicated to find a head and tail in which rules apply when and that this will simply lead to an obstruction of the recovery of the tax authorities. And that's not what we think we need right now. This does not mean, of course, that we in the Left are prepared for the authorities to have the right tools to deal with this debt challenge, and we also believe that they should have the best tools. But the key to that is that we are central to the recovery of the tax authorities. So, on this basis, I can inform you that the Left will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. However, I would like to say that in this way we are responsive to providing the municipalities with more tools, better tools, to recover the debt. And we are always open to a discussion and a political discussion on how to do it. And if a single KL comes and says that they might be interested in this proposal, we are happy to discuss it, although we may fear that it may have some consequences for the reconstruction of the tax administration. So, basically, we think it is a sympathetic proposal, but we dare not run the risk of making the difficult reconstruction of our tax authorities that we are facing difficult. So, although we are in favour, today we have to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152757	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152759	Thanks for the speech. However, I find it a little difficult to understand the logic of this. They say no to the proposal because of the recovery of the tax administration, but it is precisely to restore the tax administration that it might now be possible to relieve them by saying that the municipalities could do the job instead. The Left itself has said that they support L 64, the second proposal in which the municipal utilities are allowed to do so. It could be a good model, and it's the same model we put down here. And then suddenly it's a problem for the IRS. It must be assumed that it must be a greater problem for the recovery of the tax administration that 98 municipalities must be connected to than if they are not connected to them. I assume that there is more work to be done in connection than there is the fact that perhaps 20 of the municipalities say they want to do it themselves. I find it a little difficult to understand the logic of how it should help the tax administration, to say that everyone should simply be connected and that it should happen now, and then we spend all the resources on it. Why not allow the municipalities to recover and then the tax administration could focus on developing the new system?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152856	Firstly, I would like to thank the author of the motion for a resolution and also the question. After all, this is also about prioritising where we put our resources, and we believe in the fact that the resources, the time, the energy are best spent on making the new system work, getting the municipalities connected and thus contributing to the recovery of the tax administration and the entire debt area. That is why we have weighed up the pros and cons of this resolution, and there are both advantages and disadvantages, and we fear that the disadvantages exceed the benefits. It is because we want to use the energy to restore the tax administration by ensuring that the new system works and the municipalities have to be connected to. However, I would like to emphasise, as I also tried to do in my speech, that we are open to discussion, and we need to provide the municipalities with more tools and, in particular, in the phase leading up to recovery itself, because there may be good sense in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205152956	I am just wondering why one is positive about L 64, where the municipal-owned utilities can be allowed to recover it, because it is not a problem for the tax administration to use the resources at a disadvantage, but if one extends it to the fact that it is perhaps Arriva which, as a private company, comes and says that they actually want to recover it themselves, then it is suddenly a skewed use of resources in the tax administration. I think it seems a little special. But is it not fundamentally ideologically positive for the Left, which is a liberal party, to allow a few private individuals to recover? After all, it can hardly get worse than it is today when debt just rises and rises. Could it not be common sense to use it in some of the places where it actually works with private people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153036	Yes, in the Left we are great ideological supporters of the interaction between the private sector and the public sector. Unlike many other parties in the Folketing, we are convinced that this can lead to a higher level of service and a better use of tax dollars. If we then have found that the benefits do not outweigh the disadvantages here, it is because we are faced with a huge task of restoring the tax administration, including the whole area of debt. Here, then, we will give priority to our resources in order to restore the debt area centrally, to make the new system work and to get the municipalities connected. That is what we believe deep down is the best solution in terms of restoring the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153115	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153132	Thank you. With the draft law, the proposers want to allow non-governmental claimants to take over responsibility for the recovery of their debts. This will apply to new debts and the decision to take over recovery will apply three years at a time. As a starting point, SF believes that we should be wary of giving private debt collection companies the possibility of debt recovery. With this proposal, we can risk a situation in which the debtors are discriminated against, depending on the municipality in which they live. If you are from Skanderborg Municipality, you may be less expensive than one from Tønder Municipality, because in the last municipality you may be able to pay for private actors' assistance with the debt recovery task. In the event that there are further delays in relation to the new recovery system, the SF would like to cooperate on a solution, but as it looks at the moment, the SF cannot immediately support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153224	Thank you. No one has asked for a brief comment, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153245	The Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution which will extend the system of private collection or recovery to all non-governmental claimants, as it is called. We cannot support the proposal because of the private debt collection part. As such, we cannot support the resolution either, but we are certainly in favour of looking at the possibility for municipalities to recover more money. We can see, in relation to property taxes, how good the municipalities are at making the recovery. After all, we could also see how the recovery before the reform of the structure in 2005 actually worked when it was in the municipalities and how it has developed disastrously with the disappearance of thousands of jobs when SKAT was established and some IT systems were introduced that did not work at all. And we can then see that when the municipalities get some of the task back, it works. So looking at it at all we think is sensible. We also share the Danish People's Party's concern about the huge public waste mass. We simply have to do something about this, and we were therefore also included in the agreement to strengthen public debt recovery, and we are, in fact, always going in with open minds and receiving proposals on how to do something better here, because it is simply not working for tax morality and for the sense of justice in tax matters that debt to the public simply increases and increases. Now we have gone through the ceiling so that the amount owed to citizens and businesses is now over 120 billion. kr. It is a doubling in a few years, and it shows how disastrous it has been that our tax administration has been saved to pieces and mistreated and destroyed for many, many years. Fortunately, we have now reached a time when nearly 2 billion are being added. kr. To restore the tax administration, among other things: also with the conclusion of the financial agreement that has just been made. So now we are on the right track to have abused our tax administration for years. After all, that's good. This proposal will, on the basis of L 64, extend the system provided for in L 64, that municipal utilities should be able to choose private debt collection rather than public recovery. Now is not the time for me to read from that agreement, but that agreement offers that possibility. First of all, we must manage all the debts which are purely spaghetti, so it can be said, in relation to what is not under control, i.e. whether the debts are legally enforceable and whether they contain the right data to enable them to be recovered. At the time when things have sort of been sorted out and you have an IT system that is up and running, you can look at the possibility of using private debt collection. There we have to say that we think that with L 64, which extends the possibility for municipal utilities, we are too early in relation to what is in the agreement we have concluded, and therefore we cannot support L 64 either. On the other hand, we would also say in this context that the fact that we were told over so long in the Treasury under the previous government that IT systems were under control, that there was a timetable, that it was running and that the budgets would keep in relation to the recovery system, has also effectively shut down the discussion that we really wanted in the Enhedslisten, that more people could be hired for manual recovery, i.e. hands, live people, until the IT systems get up and running. But because we have had all sorts of fairy tales about how well things went over in the Treasury, that discussion has been closed down, and then we think it is a little absurd that what then comes on the table now, because we have not got the truth about what it really looked like under the previous government, is more private recovery, instead of hiring several years' work for recovery in the Debt Authority, that is, within the tax administration. So that's how we think it's wrong. We cannot therefore support the proposal here, but we agree that it is necessary and sensible to look at how the municipalities can carry out a greater part of the task here, and when there are negotiations coming in next year, preferably early next year, then the role of the municipalities in this, at least from the point of view of Enhedslisten, is one of the things we would also like to see drilled out, and we would like to see whether we cannot do things in a more sensible way there. So in this way, we would say that the part of the proposal which deals with precisely that seems appropriate to us when we start some negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153729	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153731	First of all, I want to thank you for your speech. I am, in effect, pleased to hear that we agree on the issue. I would also agree with the rapporteur that, in such a way, more manual resources would also be a good part of the solution. This doesn't mean that you can do other things too, and I think we have to take a broad look at how we make this work. I understand that there may be some ideological objections to private life, but if it is the municipalities we allow to do this, it doesn't have to involve a debt collection company. In other words, the municipalities are economically rather heavy; it is a large store, one must say, and the individual municipalities have many employees. So if the problem was the debt collection companies and if they were told that the municipalities could handle it, then perhaps we could agree on it half way. Because the municipalities are so large financially that they do not need to involve some private people, because they just have it inhouse, you might say. So could it be a solution if it was because one ideologically opposed that it was a private debt collection company that made money from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153825	With the knowledge that I have of the local economy, I believe that the municipalities will not be interested in this at all, and one could then say that such legislation could be adopted, because it will not be used. But we think it is wrong to open up the private sector to this area. And it is also about the fact that we think there is a legal certainty in this. When you make recovery, but in reality also collection, and when it comes to contacting citizens in this area, we feel best that it is in the public sector rather than that it should lie outside with perhaps several different private debt collection companies, which must then be monitored by the municipality in order to ensure that they comply with the rules and guidelines in this area. So we believe that the task is most cost-effective and most appropriate in terms of legal certainty, and this is really true in relation to the municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205153926	I understand that answer, and I actually asked just to test where we might be able to meet each other. For a municipality is also public, so there is probably the same legal certainty in it, I would say if it is because you are afraid that it is private companies and various private companies and what they can do about it. But if it is because you want it to be public, you could also say that it could relieve the State Debt Board if the municipalities were allowed to do so, so that both are public. After all, the municipalities are closer to the citizens and may also know a little about the background that it may be due to social problems and that in other cases it may be because they are fraudsters. And the municipalities may also know, because they have a different knowledge of the citizens, where they have to intervene, in terms of whether it should be agreements or whether they should push them. Could it not just be that we cut away the private part, but said that the municipalities were allowed to stand for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154003	I think that this is really worth looking at, because when we talk about recovery, we are talking about individual payment agreements, and that means that this is, to a large extent, about being close to the citizen and concluding a concrete individual agreement with the individual citizen on how we, as a community, ensure that the money that is due comes into the box, but that it is, of course, done in such a way that the citizen can also pay. And it has to be said that the municipalities are much closer to the citizens. I must also say, with the knowledge that you get as a tax rapporteur to see how things are going at state level, that the municipalities have much closer governance and are also much closer to the citizens. So there's a lot to argue that the municipalities will be really good at doing this job. And that is one of the things we need to discuss in more detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154055	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154110	Thank you for the motion for a resolution which we can support. We think it is a very sensible idea to allow others to recover their own debts in order to ensure that there is a motivation to do so in the best possible way. It is important that it is not a requirement that you should do so, but that it is an opportunity that you can give to, among other things. municipalities. I understand, of course, the argument that we must now allow the tax administration to operate and that there is so much chaos in the tax administration that it is no use now that we are starting to rock the boat and set something in motion which means that there will be no peace over in the tax administration. I would also respect that principle if, every week, the tax administration itself does not have three or four new legislative proposals in this Chamber with other things that need to be changed. So I'm thinking that from one thing to the next, one thing must be possible to implement. We will probably not be able to continue to treat tax administration for years as such a vulnerable organisation in which we cannot demand any change. Against this background, therefore, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154223	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154240	In the alternative, we say 'yes' to effective recovery tools, but we say 'no' to the proposal here. The public creditors already have the opportunity to strengthen their collection requirements. They can, for example: outsource the collection tasks where this does not involve the exercise of authority. However, we need a general recovery of effective public recovery, which is why I am delighted that the government is taking the initiative for a comprehensive and realistic plan on how to make debt recovery work. Fortunately, the new debt recovery system is well on the way, and among other things. DSB is connected. However, the discrimination that this proposal could give between municipalities is not good and, at the same time, the individual citizen's overview can also disappear because there may be different recoveries from different places. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154339	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154346	Thank you. I actually sat down and saw Robin Hood here the other day and it was amazing. The Sheriff of Nottingham puts up a note about people who owe money in taxes. And then I got the idea when I read this proposal, if that's what we were out in, but I'm confident it's not from where it's coming. I think that's a good suggestion from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær and Dansk Folkeparti. If it is the tactics of DF and we also have reduced taxes and reduced the public sector, we are heading in the right place. I think we should move much more and close to the citizens. This is true in many areas of the public sector, and it is true in this area too. I believe that the municipalities are much more effective in this. They are close to the citizens; they also know the citizens who do not have the means to pay, because many of them have their own system. So they'll be able to solve much better than I think the state can. So we think it is a positive proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154444	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to the next in the rapporteur's line, which is the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154452	Thank you. And thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which we will be voting for. We think this is a good proposal and we find it difficult to understand why we should be against it. We haven't been told here from the platform... at least nothing we can understand and remember... why some people are opposed to this. So, it is about the municipalities being forced to take advantage of the state recovery when they have some debt they have to collect. And it does not work at the moment, so it is particularly important for them to be allowed to choose something else at the moment. But even when the state recovery is going to work, why should the municipalities not have the opportunity to do so themselves, if that is what they wanted, or to get some private people to do so? A number of people have been asked about this today. Neither the Minister nor the Social Democrat rapporteur nor the Left rapporteur gave an answer, which I am able to remember, and that is because there was no answer, so there were words in the answer, but there was no content in the answer, and therefore there was nothing to remember. The only answer I remember is what was from Enhedslisten, and it is as we know it from Enhedslisten: you are against because you think the public should do everything. At the moment some people come and suggest that private people can take over a task, you are against it, because that is not the way to the big bright goal on the horizon, where the state takes care of everything in our society, which is Enhedslisten's utopia. And that is why they are against any outsourcing, any privatisation, and so they are against this proposal. We are in favour of it and we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154627	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the rapporteur's line is now over, and we must conclude with the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205154637	Thank you. And thank you for the debate and, in particular, thank you to the Conservative, New Civil and Liberal Alliance for supporting this proposal. I can see that we have to do something in this extraordinary situation, because the issue dates back to 2015, when the old IT system, EFI, was dropped, and since then we have just seen that the debt has exploded. I guess it's now over 125 billion. kr. and still rising, and it will just continue to do so for many years to come. And the Danes can't just keep watching that, because it's just not fair that some Danes pay what they have to pay, and then others don't. It is simply bad for tax morality, but it is also bad for the social contract that we have, where you can disagree about the tax • some think you pay too much, and some think you pay too little in tax • but where we all pay what we have to pay. This is, of course, an important part of the social contract we have. And now the debt is about 125 billion. kr., which we have to do something about here in the Folketing. And that is why we are proposing that one of the options is that there may clearly be other solutions, too, which could supplement the idea of allowing non-governmental claimants themselves to stand for this. Well, it can't really get any worse, because nothing of the state is being recovered right now. So why not let them cooperate with private companies or • if it is a large municipality, which itself has financial power for it • let themselves stand for it? This is a 'can' clause; it is not the case that we force the municipalities to do so. You can do it yourself if you ask for it. And there are, in fact, several advantages to it. Firstly, it will help relieve the Debt Authority today, so that they may be able to use the gunpowder and resources to develop new systems and actually make it work on time too. Now it has been postponed again, in fact since this motion for a resolution was tabled. And secondly, it can actually have a positive effect that you get some competition in the field, because if the state is not good enough, what it obviously is not now • we all hope it will be • well then there is the pressure ball that you can choose some private ones where it might work better. In fact, I believe that, as was also mentioned by the Minister, if, with the tools you have as a state, including wage retention, you get the system working, then many will choose the state quite naturally. But we're in a situation where it doesn't work. Then why not let them stand for it themselves? There is also the advantage of this if you leave the municipalities responsible for this, among other things. The Enhedslisten also mentioned that the municipalities are thus much closer to the citizens. Well, they know the debtor's situation far better than the state does. You may know that it is someone who generally has social problems or may be exposed in other ways. Perhaps they can then take the initiatives that make sense in relation to it. But it may also be, they know that this is one that typically cheats and scammers, and then you can use some other tools. In other words, the municipalities are closer to the citizens and may be better able to make a payment scheme or whatever it may be. Therefore, I just think that with that argument, it would be super good for the municipalities to have a greater role. And then there is evidence that it works when the municipalities have it. Well, they've been given the task of recovering the ground debt. And I believe that in Roskilde Municipality 95 per cent have been recovered. of all debts. They have brilliant success in recovering the debt themselves. So I do not understand why you have something ideological against it, so that they should not be allowed to do so in the future. I think it would be obvious that we gave them the same freedom of choice that we are actually now giving to municipal utilities. You may well be allowed to do so, but why not extend this opportunity to others? I think that would be quite obvious. Because, as I said, as a society, we cannot just sit around and watch the debt just rise to over 125 billion now. kr., and that the Danes must have the experience that some will pay and others will be allowed to avoid it. That is simply not right, and that is why I think it would be quite obvious that we went this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155014	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155033	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155050	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. In social democracy, we put welfare first. We want dignified care for the elderly, we want health care with proper time for patients, we want good day care and schools for our children. That is why the money must also keep up when we are growing older and more children in the years to come. We can afford that if we do not spend the money on tax cuts, and the bill we are discussing here today must be seen as part of the financing of the Finance Act. With the 2020 Finance Act, the Danes will feel that a new government has come, which precisely prioritises welfare and the green transition. And as we promised before the elections, we will keep the money going when, fortunately, there are more children and older people. With the 2020 Finance Act, we guarantee the means to employ a thousand more nurses. We will introduce minimum standards for our children, strengthen efforts for people who live with mental disorders, and, unlike the previous government, we will invest in education. And then we take the first steps towards a more green future. In concrete terms, today's draft law is about maintaining taxation on the free telephone. The previous government abolished the tax on free telephone with effect from 2020. However, the tax exemption mainly benefits employees with higher wages, and therefore maintaining the tax on free telephone will not only help to finance an increase in welfare from next year. This will also help to counteract an increased income gap in Denmark. The proposal here therefore has a social balance and a good social profile. In concrete terms, the proposal is not considered to have any significant effect on labour supply or GDP, but it is estimated that the retention will reduce the income differences measured by the Gini coefficient by approx. 0,02% In addition, however, the draft law will also continue the fiscal principle that remuneration should be taxed in the same way. This applies regardless of whether the remuneration is paid in cash or in other ways, such as: staff benefits. Tax freedom would break with this fiscal principle. The Social Democratic Party therefore supports the bill, which also applies to the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155327	Thank you. And there are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155332	This is primarily a tax on working Danes. It's about people getting up in the morning leaving early before sunrise, going to work for approx. 8 hours and goes back home. And in their spare time, they are also available for someone to call them • customers, boss etc. etc. Well, that phone can also be used to send a text message to your daughter about when to come home from her friend, and you can also receive a text from your father who would like to know when to come home for Christmas. But the main thing about that phone is that it is a working tool. I really think that the Social Democratic Party is going into too little shoes when the Social Democratic Party is • because this phone can also be used to send a text message to friends and family • simply tax it with a huge amount of money when the primary purpose of having that phone is for it to serve one in the work function.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155441	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. Let us just agree that the current tax rules for free telephones continue unchanged. It will therefore not increase the Danish tax payment compared to today. If e.g. a mobile phone is used exclusively for work purposes, there will be no taxation. This also applies even if individual calls of a private nature are made. If the work cell phone is taken home because it is necessary for the performance of the work, then there is no taxation. However, by maintaining that tax relief here we will have a skewed tax relief that goes to the very best paid. Let me just say as an example: In Hørsholm has 40%. of employees free of charge, while in Lolland it is 8%. For employees with an annual income of less than 300,000, it is less than 5% who have free telephones, among the highest paid it is 84 per cent, and free telephones are common among the highest paid groups. It's information from AE, the Workers' Industry Council I have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155556	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155556-2	It is clear, then, that it is the highest paid, who usually gets a free telephone from the employer; it is they who can afford to pay the tax. People who have a low income cannot afford to pay the tax that we would have liked to have abolished, but which you now think should be collected because you need to spend more money on people on cash benefits. And we also need more money in one place and the other place and the third place. You don't really care about people who go to work. There is nothing in your Finance Act that helps people who go to work there are only things in your Finance Act that take money from people who go to work. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155635	Thank you. And the next one for a brief comment: no, sorry. The next one is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155640	I really need to reply to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance Yes, I think there are some of these tax cuts that we simply cannot afford, and this is an example. Openly and honestly, we spend the money on welfare; we spend the money on people. And we spend the money on those who go to work every day. I am very pleased that we are now targeting the money towards those areas that mean a great deal to most people, namely core welfare. Instead of top tax concessions and cheaper luxury cars, which the Liberal Alliance otherwise talked about in previous years, it is now people. They are children in day care institutions; they are more educators; they are more nurses; it is a better primary school; it is action against social dumping; that is what matters to most people. That is what is now being financed; that is what is at issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155735	Now is the time for the next brief remark. And this is sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155740	I simply have to address that by saying that you spend the money on the basics. The government has chosen to give 1 billion. kr. to Somalia. This means that Danes who go to work cannot keep the system of getting a tax discount on their phones that they use. You spend 140 million. kr. on a program called the "Naboskabsprogram" where money is given to Ukraine and Georgia. Is that what you call basic core welfare? You spend 140 million. kr. a year. Don't stand on the platform and say that you only spend money on basic welfare, which benefits people in Denmark, because you spend the money on everything else. It is now said that this is not an increase in taxes, because it has certainly been adopted, but it has not yet entered into force. If that is the premise, then the government and the support parties cannot say that minimum standards are now being introduced, because even until 2025, before we reach something that can be equivalent to minimum standards. So you have to stop saying you do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155851	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155852	Everything is not just done with a single fingertips, nor is everything done with a single financial law such as the one now presented for 2020, but we are taking a really, very important step in the right direction. And in relation to the legislative proposal we are discussing here, the current tax rules for free telephones continue unchanged. It will therefore not increase the Danish tax payment compared to today. We are not solving everything in our welfare societies with this financial law, but considerable funds are being devoted to core welfare. We are doing what we promised in the election campaign; we are giving priority to welfare and the green transition. This is about people for whom core welfare is important. These are several educators in the day institutions; they are not minimum standards in the first chops, but they come from years to come. It is primary school; it is more nurses; it is action in relation to social dumping; it is all that matters to most people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205155958	The questioner for another remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160000	This is quite a matter of principle. It is quite a matter of principle whether you can say that you have adopted something when you have adopted it in the Folketing or only when it has actually been introduced. It has also been said that there will be more nurses and how many there will be. It has also been said that more money is coming to primary school. And it's over years. Then you have to start being honest and then you can only say that you have introduced it once it has been fully introduced. Because you cannot just take that premise when you talk about things that were decided by the previous government but that have not been implemented yet. Because the decision has been made in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160041	We're honest. We're doing exactly what we promised in the election campaign, with this finance bill, and among other things. With this bill that we are debating now, too. It might be interesting to ask New Citizens what it is then that New Citizens will roll back. Is it that we should be able to keep up with demographic developments in the municipalities where we are growing older and more children? We give the municipalities a boost to their core welfare. Is that what the New Citizen wants to roll back? I visited Varde Municipality the other day. The Varde Municipality will receive next year, in 2020, between 20 and 30 million. kr. more to a boost of their core welfare. They are happy about that out there. I should like to say that to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160125	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160132	The bourgeois parties had decided to abolish the tax on an employer's telephone. The taxable amount is DKr 2,800. a year and we decided to abolish taxation for three reasons. Firstly, we are in favour of lower taxes in Denmark and we would like lower taxes on the working people who have an employer-paid telephone. Secondly, we decided to abolish the tax because DKr 2,800. is more than what a cheap telephone subscription costs... you are taxed by more than you really get... and I just looked it up here on the Internet and saw that you see, for example. can receive a subscription from Oister for 149 DKK. a month. It's going to be something less than $2,800. a year. Then we have a third reason and it is that we simply think that it is very difficult administratively that one should sit and have that point on one's tax return. We are in favour of more simple taxes. So I understand that the Socialists are not in favour of having lower taxes, but can the Socialists not recognise any of the other arguments that are that we want to help people who are in work, that we want to abolish bureaucracy and that DKK 2,800. a year is actually more than what an employer-paid phone can be worth?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160245	The government would also like to counteract increased bureacracy, as we do on other agendas, but in concrete terms, this bill is about the continuation of the existing tax rules on free telephone. If we implemented the tax relief that the bourgeois people had planned, it would have a socially skewed profile, but with this we will be financing our Finance Act and we will be financing a welfare promise. I mentioned earlier that among employees with an annual income of less than DKr 300,000. It is less than 5 per cent who have a free telephone; among the top-paid, it is 84 per cent who have a free telephone; and among those in the a-boxes, i.e. those who are members of Business, the Leaders, the Economists, it is 50-60 per cent who have a free telephone. At the other end of the scale you will find the members of the NNF, i.e. the Food League, FOA, BUPL, 3F, and here there are less than 5%. by members who have free telephone. So we're doing this with an open mind to prioritize welfare, to counteract increased inequality. This is the right direction for most people in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160402	The Minister for Finance has said, as far as I can see, that there will be 5%. by the Danes who will experience higher taxes. Can the Socialists confirm that there are substantially more than 5% of people who have an employer-paid telephone, and that this does not meet the promises made to the Danes that it will only be a small minority who will experience higher taxes if we have a social democratic government in relation to the fact that we do not have a social democratic government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160429	Much less than 5%. by the Danes will experience seeing a higher tax on the pay slip as a result of the agreement on the Finance Act for 2020. And, as I have repeated several times, this proposal on the free telephone means that the tax rules applicable to free telephones remain unchanged. It will therefore not increase the Danish tax payment compared to today. And we're doing this with an open mind, we're happy with the priorities we're implementing, also with this bill. We create funding for a boost in our welfare. It is to the satisfaction of more children, we have more children, and it is to the satisfaction of more elderly people, people are getting older, fortunately we are lifting the municipalities' finances with money for core welfare; I mentioned the example from Varde, where they get 20-30 million. kr. more to core welfare. This is the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160522	Before moving on, I would just like to remind colleagues that the first question must take one minute and the answer must take one minute. The next question must take 1⁄2 minutes and the answer takes 1⁄2 minutes. When I stand up, it is a signal that time has passed, because I would hate to break into your committed and important speeches, but for the sake of our entire staff, who must be present as long as you speak, I would like to appeal to you to try to keep up with time. The next one is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160557	Thank you. After all, I am burdened with having been a tax rapporteur since 2011 and remember that I was rapporteur on a draft law on the abolition of multimedia taxation, for which the old Socialist government, under Helle Thorning-Schmidt, was the banner leader. The argument for abolition was that it was, after all, the taxation of a working tool, so people had to, for example. not taxed by having a computer they brought home. It was not a matter of one's taxation of goods, but the argument was that it was a working tool. Now it is said that it is now crucial, as the rapporteur said in his speech, that the remuneration of various things ■ whether they come out in payrolls or as an employer's phone ■ should be taxed equally. That is the exact opposite argument, because it now fits the occasion. Can the rapporteur just confirm that this is not about taxing free telephones? It's about wanting to finance a finance bill. After all, the arguments have been made, depending on how they fit. In 2011, when some of it was abolished, it was because it was a working tool, but now a phone is not a working tool, which I actually think most Danes can see it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160659	We're implementing this bill with an open mind, with an open forehead. We do not want to sidestep tax cuts with skewed social profiles, and there have been, as I have documented several times. Around this, whether it is unreasonable to tax a working tool, I would say that if, for example, a mobile phone is used exclusively for work purposes, there will be no taxation. This also applies even if individual calls of a private nature are made. And if a work cell phone is taken home because it is necessary for the work to be done, then there will be no taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160739	Let me give you an example of how crazy this has really become. If you get an iPad made available by the employer where you have access to call via FaceTime, you can check your mail, you might be able to check a company app, then there is no tax on whether you use it privately or not. If you get an iPhone with you home, where you can also access your email, you can call FaceTime, and you can exactly the same thing that is just a sim card in, then there must be a high tax. Can the rapporteur not see that it will be a little special if you have as a main argument that it should be taxed equally if the iPad is without taxation, but iPhone is with taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160819	The crux of this is that by not implementing the tax relief that is wanted by the bourgeois, no Danes are going to change their tax conditions, but we are getting funding for our increase in welfare. It might be interesting to ask the Danish People's Party what it is then that the Danish People's Party will roll back. Is it the education ceiling, or is it that we need more money in the municipalities for the older fellow citizens, of whom we have more, and where the pressure on the municipalities is enormous? We are raising the economy of the municipalities so that we can also have dignified care for the elderly. Is that what the Danish People's Party wants to roll back?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160858	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205160901	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is talking a lot about distortion in society and how this does not change anything about the distortion, and I am a little confused because there are about half a million employees who are currently getting their mobile phones paid by their employer. This reply from the Ministry of Finance, which came yesterday, says that more than 50 per cent. of those people, for example. don't pay top tax. The tax we are talking about today is a flat tax, which means that it is not affected by income. So you have to pay tax on the 2,800 kroner. a year, no matter what you make. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur will agree that it is the low-paid people who are in practice most affected by the proposal supported by the rapporteur today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161001	No, well, this particular bill counteracts bias, counteracts inequality in our society. And let me say again that the current tax rules for free telephones continue unchanged. And if we did this relief, it would just have a socially skewed profile. If the rapporteur has heard my list, it is less than 5%. of employees with an annual income of less than DKr 300,000 who have free telephone. In other words, among the highest paid, the figure is 84 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161037	I do not really feel that the rapporteur hears what I say when I say that it is over 50%. by the Danes who don't pay top tax that gets hit by this. Do we agree that it is the people among those who have free mobile phones that will hit the hardest, that is, as it will cost the most in crowns and ears?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161105	Well, the current tax rules for free phones continue unchanged with this proposal... so nobody gets hit. And again it is interesting, as I argue, that we will finance core welfare in the municipalities, because there is pressure on the municipalities. We get more educators, we get a better primary school, we get more nurses. So what is it that the Left Party does not want? What is it that the Left Party wants to roll back from these welfare vows? That might be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161140	It won't be in this round. There's no one else who's been challenged by sir. Troels Ravn's presentation, so we thank Mr. Troels Ravn and welcome to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161204	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry if I start sighing a little during this speech... I don't know how permissible it is. That fg. President Sighing shall not be prohibited). I'm glad to hear that, because I'm not so happy today. Now it is going to be more expensive to be a Dane, and it must be more difficult to operate, at least if it is up to the government. With the bill we are discussing here, the government is rerolling the previous government's decision to remove the tax on employer-paid mobile phones. This means that about half a million people have to be taxed harder; half a million ordinary Danes who stand up every day and go to work and who already contribute to our society both through tax, innovation and inspiration. We in the Left find that very unfortunate. But it doesn't stop here. The companies in which the employees work must also be penalised. With the proposal, companies that today sell products and services for the benefit of the local community and the state treasury must devote more time to administration and control and less to innovation and the working environment. We in the Left also find that very regrettable. So, on the one hand, the ordinary working citizen is hit by another tax and, on the other hand, the small job-creating company is hit by bureaucratic rules from the state. We in the Left will not support that. And it is actually surprising that the Social Democratic Party will introduce taxes for ordinary Danes. It is only 2 months since the Minister of Taxation confirmed that the government, and I quote, will ensure that ordinary employees do not have to face higher taxes on their pay slips on the Social Democratic watch. That promise lasted only under two months. Because it is the case that tax on mobile phones is shown precisely on the pay slip, and it is indeed the case that ordinary working citizens get their mobile phones paid by their employer. They are ordinary people who go to work every day and are given the opportunity by their employer to answer a call or an email when they get home. It is simply not just a tax on ordinary citizens and bureaucratic trouble for businesses it is a tax on mobility and flexibility. We live at a time when new technologies form a flexible labour market. Most people wouldn't think that a cell phone is actually an extra good one. It has become a necessity which creates important opportunities and freedom for the flexible labour market and modern man. It gives the employee the freedom to be updated on the move. It gives the single mother the freedom to pick up the children earlier and answer the last e-mails when the children are put in the evening. It gives parents the freedom to work at home when the children have a fever. That freedom the government will tax. To be quite clear in the spit, we in the Left certainly cannot support the bill. In the Left, we do not want to throw extra taxes on the payroll of ordinary working citizens. We do not want to impose more bureaucratic red tape on our small businesses and we do not want to tax mobility and flexibility. So the Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161525	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, the first is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161532	Thank you for your But I'm a little puzzled about it. It was in 2017 that this was decided, and it was adopted in 2018. Why was it not decided to introduce it from 2019? Now there is a parliamentary election, and boom, then you don't introduce it. Why was it not introduced in 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161555	That is what is sometimes so sad when a conciliation is not broad, because then it is precisely that something like this can happen. That is also why our former President sometimes talked about cooperation across the middle actually being very good for such a party as ourselves, because then there could be forward-looking solutions. That's what we wanted there to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161616	That's not what I asked. I asked why you didn't, when you decided in 2017 and you adopted it in 2018, have a deadline that was said that you would implement it from 2019. Then it would have already come into force before a choice was made and before a new government was to introduce a new tax. So the question is why you didn't implement it from 2019 when you decided in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161639	We fully agree that it could have been right, very nice if the funding had been found at that time. Unfortunately, it was not, because then we would not have been in this very sad situation that we are facing today, so it could have been nice and pleasant, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161654	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161655	Thank you. The rapporteur from the Left, unfortunately, speaks against better knowledge, just as the rapporteur's party chairman, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, speaks against better knowledge when he places an ad in the media today, which says that it will be more expensive to be a Dane with higher taxes and taxes on everything from home purchases to work mobile phones. It is the case that the existing tax rules for free telephones continue unchanged. There are no Danes who, with this bill, will be taxed harder than today. The rapporteur and the rapporteur's chairman speak against better knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161740	Now it's something that's Ergo, it's not the richest, it's not a stoned treasure, it's nothing. So I'm so incomprehensible when I'm standing up here today, I have to admit, I am. 'Cause it's... 'cause it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161817	But it will no longer be right for the rapporteur to repeat his postulate. In other words, the tax rules applicable to free telephones remain unchanged. There are no Danes who are being taxed harder on this bill. It might be tempting to ask whether the rapporteur dares to take a trip to Detector with his claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161838	When something is adopted, when you are promised something and then it suddenly just gets taken from you again, then it gets more expensive. If the rapporteur is told that you get a financial gain, that you get more in salary, that you get something, and then suddenly you say that you don't, then suddenly it becomes more expensive. So I simply cannot understand the rapporteur's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161903	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161904	Thank you. I think that this is a rather boring debate, but I would really like to lead the discussion on the issue of freedom that the rapporteur spent a great deal of time on, that is, the freedom of the single mother to answer an e-mail at home and to use her mobile phone on the go. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this can easily be done without being taxed under this legislation? It's only if you use the phone privately that this tax hits. It's not if you just send a work email from home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205161937	It is true if you only just send a work email, but the limits of when you send one of these are very blurred. Because when exactly are you gonna take it out? Nowadays, a lot of people use the work phone. I did it in my previous job, too. I just got this job. There I used the telephone I had received from my employer, both privately and in terms of work, and many Danes do, because that is the way it goes. This is the way our technology is going, and it creates freedom and air for all of us, and that is fantastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162012	Well, then, when we get a phone like that from our work and use it privately, it's also very fair that we have to pay taxes on it, at least I think. Otherwise, we would have to pay a lot of private expenses. It is a staff benefit which ensures that we do not have to pay a subscription or buy a new phone, because we have now got one of the jobs. I just don't see why this can get the Left so much into the red field. I think it is very fair to remove this tax rebate and then spend some more money on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162044	Now it is a tax on a kind of work tool, one of the only working tools that is actually taxed. And as has also been said quite rightly by the Danish People's Party in the past, you will not be taxed by the iPad you may be made available. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162102	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162104	It is just in relation to the rapporteur's remarks that it should be such ordinary people who benefit from this scheme. If you look at the figures that we have received questions asked in the Tax Committee and answer them, you can see the distribution of revenue. The money is being spent on this scheme that the previous government wanted. Well, you can see that they're 10%. The richest get 40%. of all the money this scheme costs. It seems to me to be a very socially biased scheme. Is it not the case that, in this way, the figures speak their very clear language of saying that this is a system which is very socially wrong and that, therefore, we will have a more socially just system by abolishing this system and using the money for some sensible things? It could be to improve psychiatry or to introduce for example. a boost to the day-care area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162200	Thank you for the question. You're right that the numbers speak for themselves in the way that the Ministry of Finance came up with some really nice figures yesterday, which told me that over half a million Danes are being hit by this tax. More than half of them are not top tax payers. They don't pay top taxes. This is a flat treasure. So I would like to ask the rapporteur a question and ask: who are the most affected, then, those who pay top tax or those who do not pay top tax? Well, where is it most expensive for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162231	But with all due respect, that is a rather absurd way of raising the figures. Because if the figure presented here by the rapporteur should make sense, then the proportion of top tax payers in Denmark should be about 50%. of the population, and it is not. So there is a strong over-representation of people who pay top tax, who benefit from this scheme, in relation to the ordinary people who benefit from this scheme. That is also what the figures show when you can see that 40%. of what this scheme costs goes to the 10%. The richest. That is why it is socially biased, and that is why it must be abolished, and that is what we are doing now, and then we are spending the money on something sensible. We strengthen the psychiatry, we strengthen the day care area, we strengthen the hospitals with 1,000 more nurses. That is what we are using the money for, and that is why it is good and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162313	I'll be right back: over 50 percent. half a million don't pay top tax. The Danes do not pay top tax, and therefore it becomes most expensive for those people. You go in and tax a working tool, modern technology that gives freedom at home. You just don't follow in time. Everyone has a cell phone today, at least it's very close; many have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162341	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162344	Thank you. I think that in my question I will follow a little along the same lines as the questions that have been asked. The rapporteur says that it is ordinary people who are affected by this proposal, but now you could, and I have done so, dive into the figures and see what it says. You can see that for those people who have an income of DKK 300,000. A year, it's 5 percent who have access to a free phone. Looking at the richest percent, it's 87 percent who have the right to a free phone. This means that there is a much higher chance that you have the right to a free telephone if you are one of the richest in our society. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that what the rapporteur says is not true, namely that it affects ordinary people. It is clear that this has been what the previous government was trying to do with enthusiasm, namely to sneak in some top tax concessions. This is then one of those that is now being removed, because the government would rather spend the money on welfare, psychiatry, educators and many other things. I would ask the rapporteur to confirm this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162441	Over half a million Danes are affected by this proposal. You are now inside and want to make it more expensive to be a Dane. Over 50%. Of these half a million Danes, they don't pay top taxes. There you can go in and discuss where the limit is and whether it is above or below half a million, but I think it is at least below that. We have students who have cell phones. We have quite ordinary teachers who have mobile phones. We have nurses who have cell phones. A lot of Danes have cell phones. If the questioner will not call them quite ordinary Danes, I do not know what the questioner will call them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162530	It doesn't make it any more right to keep saying the same thing. Now the rapporteur says that nurses are ordinary people. I think they are. But if we dig into the geographical area and see where people have this free phone, that is, where they get this tax relief that you have given, you can see that it is 40%. If we look at Lolland and close to where I live, it is only 8% of employees in Hørsholm who will benefit from a free telephone. I don't know, I think I know, but the rapporteur may be able to help me, but aren't there nurses in Lolland who have an ordinary job, but who wouldn't get anything out of this free-phone system anyway? It is just to say once again that it is clear that it would surely be a tax relief that would benefit the most prosperous in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162612	Now I'm North Jyde if we're going to discuss where we come from and there's a lot of North Jyders who have to keep paying this tax. I think it is sad that mobility will suffer. I find it sad that you cannot see which way society is moving. It is mobility, and it is a working tool that will continue to be taxed. It just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162636	Thank you very much to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162644	Thank you. As also mentioned in a brief remark earlier, I am, of course, burdened with having been rapporteur since 2011, when we were discussing a proposal on the abolition of multimedia taxation in return for introducing what is externally referred to as the smartphone tax, which is what we are discussing today, that is to say the tax on free telephone. I think it is a little fun to think back to the bill from then on, because the justification in 2011 was that multimedia taxation would be abolished because it was a tax on a working tool. You didn't look at whether there was any distribution profile in it, no, but it didn't make sense for the Danes to be taxed by a laptop you brought home, because it was kind of good that we became more digital, that people were more mobile, and that supported their work. Since then, there has been a discussion as to whether it was reasonable to have a tax on the telephone, and I am basically in agreement when the Socialists say that we should tax values that are made available instead of wages. But, in fact, we went away from that back in 2011, and is it something that is replacing pay today, if it is really more to be seen as a working tool? I also think that it is possible to discuss whether that is the premise at all. Because I certainly think that we who sit in here in Parliament and that's how I think it's for many other people in the business world don't think of it as a staff benefit that's instead of our salary. I think it is an important tool today. I know that as a member of parliament I use my phone far more than I use my computer because I can sit and read committee documents and agendas on it, write with people and read things, and I do it at night, and I do it at weekends. So, is it such an employee benefit that we have our phones in here in the Folketing? I don't think any of us think so. I think we think it is a working tool, and that is the discussion we should have rather than the distributional one. I also think that, in relation to the discussion about multimedia taxation, one should consider whether it makes any sense at all to say to people that if they have a computer or an iPad made available, which they also use privately, it is without taxation, but that if they get an iPhone, which is also a small computer and on which you can do exactly the same things, then taxation is on. I guess that's the discussion we should be having, too, in relation to where we want this society to go. Because is it really not good that we can be mobile in our labour market, that we can be available, that we can solve things while on the move and not have to go back to the desktop computer in the office? I think that telephones are an incredibly important tool for flexibility, and that is why I do not think it is a good idea to have taxation on them, and that is why we really think it is a good idea to stand by the financial agreement which made it abolished from 1 January 2020 and therefore we cannot support this proposal. However, I would also like to say that when we sit here and represent the people, we should be careful what we say in such a discussion. We have, of course, been given a telephone, and we are actually being taxed on it immediately. But hey, then the Danish Parliament has decided that we should be compensated for that. So we who are sitting in here are not taxed by free telephone, because we have decided ourselves that we should not have it, because it is precisely for members of parliament it is a working tool. But if you work in the private sector, it is not a working tool, and then you have to be taxed on it. Well, I use my phone to call my wife or kids. So why should we be compensated in the Folketing because it is a working tool, while for everyone else it should not be a working tool and then they should be taxed on it? So in those words, I'm gonna say I can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205162956	There are two short remarks, and the first is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163003	First of all, I very much agree with the rapporteur that the conditions of the Members of Parliament must, of course, be normalised, and we are working on that here too. But in view of the fact that getting a phone isn't supposed to be an employee benefit, I really find it hard to understand the argument. When you get a brand-new iPhone 11, for example, which you also use in private, it doesn't matter that you don't have to buy one yourself. That's a pretty big staff item. It's a super hot phone, which you can use privately and have some great benefits from. Does the rapporteur not also recognise that it is a kind of employee benefit when you are given a free telephone?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163042	Yes, but couldn't you turn it around and say that you can get a super delicious laptop and that you can get super hot iPad? They are also used in private, and do they not also recognise that this is a staff benefit? With the agreement that SF has entered into, iPadden is tax-free, and if you get a laptop, there is no taxation on it, but if it is an iPhone, that is the phone, there is taxation on it, and that does not result in symmetry in tax legislation. After all, we want people to bring home an iPad so you can be mobile in the labour market and answer an email, but if it's just by phone, you answer an email or you use it privately, it's a problem. I think it's kind of a bias that you say it's just the phone that's the problem, but that iPadden isn't a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163121	I am willing to discuss that too. When you are given some things at work that you can use privately, I think it is fair enough that you are taxed by it. That is a very good principle, and I would also just like to remind you that this is not something you do to bother someone. This is something we do because we think it is essential to strengthen welfare, and therefore, of course, it will also cost some money. I think that this is both solidarity funding and that it is a roll-back of a tax rebate which was particularly beneficial to the richest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163155	I have no doubt that no one in here is doing anything to bother anyone. I don't think any of us should be blamed for that, but the arguments didn't really add up. Because they say that you are also willing to look at whether an iPad should be taxed. However, SF was itself included in the 2011 Finance Act which removed the tax on iPads because it was said that it was a problem because it was precisely a working tool. So you have yourself removed the old multimedia tax and introduced this new tax on free telephone because you thought it was a problem that it was a working tool. After all, a number of years have passed and, I believe, it has become even more a working tool in society with the telephone. So if you had to stick to your original argument, there shouldn't be taxation on the phone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163232	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163233	Thank you. We can agree that it is unreasonable to tax a working tool. But does the rapporteur not also agree that, if, for example, there is a need for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work? A mobile phone is used exclusively for work, so will not be taxed, even if the mobile phone is taken home and individual calls of a private nature are made? Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163305	You can do that. You can also leave it at work if you want to, but that doesn't change the fact that there is the big difference. Because if you bring an iPhone home, you are not allowed to use it privately, but you have an iPad with you home that you can also use for Facetime, you can write facebook messages for people you can write emails, or you can access the company's apps, if they have such a few. I think it is strange that we accept that a portable computer is an important tool of work. I think that all of us in this Parliament can nod to recognize that we are probably using the phone even more than the other tools. But it is not a working tool, no, it must be taxed, because it is certainly a problem. At least that is the logic, and I disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163346	Thank you for your answer. I think it is fine that we agree that when a mobile phone is used exclusively for work, as a working tool, then there is no taxation. Can the rapporteur also agree with me that the tax rules applicable to free telephones are being maintained unchanged today and that, if the tax relief proposed by the bourgeoisie were to be implemented, it would have an imbalance, a clear social imbalance? Will the rapporteur also agree with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163420	That was a little in line with the questions put to the Left, and I was actually hoping that I would get it as well. I mean, you have to be careful what arguments you use. Because when you look at the property valuations, we had made an agreement that put a tax relief on the property owners in view. Now they don't get it because the whole system is being postponed. The Socialists are then in favour of saying: 'Oh, we have put something in the perspective of the citizens, so they should not pay, because it will then become more expensive for them, even though in principle it is not something they are feeling now.' But when it comes to this area, you try to convince the Danes that it is a bill that we have passed, but that it has not been able to enter into force and that the Danes do not feel anything. Can one not hear for oneself that there are perhaps some things that are not connected with the argument, where one uses it according to what it is for a matter one is discussing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163459	Thank you very much, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no more brief comments, and I welcome Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163515	Thank you. I'll make sure to be ready in good time next time, I hadn't thought that Radical Left wasn't here. As has already been mentioned in the debate, the SF, together with the government, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, have concluded an agreement on the Financial Act for 2020, and it is a Finance Act that we are very proud of in many ways. First and foremost, it gives priority to the next generation, it ensures that our children are given the best conditions, it ensures that young people are calmed down, and then it also gives priority to the green transition, and in order to give priority to a whole lot of these things, we have downgraded some tax rebates that the previous government has given to some special groups. For example: We want to maintain the taxation of free telephone and the Internet, which is a socially biased tax reduction. Moreover, I would also like to comment on something that was mentioned earlier from up here by Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, where you compared this tax to a phone subscription from Oyster. I do not think that is a fair comparison to make. Because when you get free telephones, it is not just a subscription that you do not have to pay; it is actually a brand new phone. For example, you get... If an iPhone 11 Pro is handed over, you will not be able to buy an iPhone 11 Pro yourself, which currently costs DKK 8,400, at least according to Apple's website. It is, after all, a certain amount of staff that I see, and that is why I think it is quite fair that we should tax it here. That is why the SF also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163656	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163701	Thank you. I have a small business myself where we drive a bus. I have a couple of student assistants, and in case I gave them a cell phone that cost 500 kroner. A year? Why should they be punished for having a red majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163735	But they should not necessarily do so only if they choose to use the phone privately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163741	If they now choose to use the phone privately, they will be taxed by DKr 2,800. a year, which is much more than the phone is worth. Why do they have to be taxed on more than the phone is worth? Why should they be punished for having a red majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163801	It would also be relatively complicated if you had to set the tax on free phones completely according to what the phone cost. And it's also difficult, given what kind of subscription you would otherwise have had in private. So you have to set a fixed rate. I think that this is a very fair level, and I also believe that many of those who are given a free telephone will receive a very good telephone. And if you are in the situation that it is economically not worth using it privately, then you can simply not and then get your own phone. You don't get punished in any way. It is a free choice, and if you end up paying more, it is simply because you have chosen to use it privately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163842	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163844	Now, as members of parliament, we have both a computer and an iPad and an iPhone made available. In fact, I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur consider it to be three benefits which replace pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163900	In fact, I think it can be viewed as such. I mean, I understand that this is not part of the agreement we have made on the Finance Act now, but I am actually willing to discuss it. However, I think that there may be some other challenges with computers, for example, than there are with telephones. There are lots of people who easily have two phones and take them around. It's a little more difficult with something like a computer. However, I could in fact be open to looking at the taxation of employee benefits more broadly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205163927	I do not suppose that we should assume that it is after how easy it is to carry things around when it comes to whether or not such a staff item should be taxed. Maybe it doesn't seem like such a good idea. But it's just a little funny: Well, back in 2011, SF was in on it. In fact, it was a SF treasure minister, Holger K. Nielsen, as far as I remember, who sat on the chair I had him in Question Time at least when he was Minister and who was the banner leader for the removal of the tax on a work tool, that is, by the computer and by the iPad. And now you sit there and say that you want something else. I mean, why hasn't it been included in a finance agreement? Well, I think it's weird that the phone is not a working tool, but the iPad is a work force.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164006	Much has happened since 2011. SF has e.g. I have another tax rapporteur, and I am completely open to looking at the taxation of employee benefits in general. And I think this is a really, really sensible place to take action to ensure that we get some more money for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164024	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin, and welcome to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten ▪ De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164047	Among the many tax reductions adopted by the previous government during the last government period, there was also the removal of tax on free telephone, etc. from 2020 onwards. And it was not because there was a lack of tax reductions; it can only be seen that the previous government, together with the Danish People's Party, agreed tax reductions which would cost nearly 22 billion. kr. This is also one of the reasons why we have seen a decline in welfare which has been starved and that we have seen an increase in inequality. Fortunately, it is also the case that the electorate in the elections wanted a new majority, which wants a break with the inequality-building policy and which wants us to see a strengthened welfare. We need a better psychiatry. We need a boost in the day institutions. We need more money for primary school. We need a new direction for Denmark. And to finance it, we also need to roll back some of the antisocial and biased tax reductions to find the money to raise the community to a greater extent. The bill we are debating today is, after all, an expiry of the financial law agreement that has just been concluded, and the removal of tax on the freephone is a tax reduction that has never made much sense. What would the big social gain be by making employer-paid telephones and the Internet tax-free? We're having a really hard time watching it. Then, of course, you can have the attitude of some bourgeois parties, perhaps everyone, that any tax relief is a good tax relief because it is generally believed that taxes are too high in Denmark. In the Enhedslisten we simply disagree. Since Anders Fogh Rasmussen stepped in in the early 00s, tax relief has been granted for about 50 billion. kr., the highest marginal tax has been lowered by 6-7 per cent, and you could go on. The price for the many tax cuts has been that the money has had to be found in public welfare, which has had an historically large and brutal slowing down. The priorities of the Enhedslisten are clear: we would simply rather spend the money on raising welfare rather than giving tax reductions, which in addition mainly benefit the wealthiest in crowns and ears. A tax relief on the free telephone and the Internet is a skewed tax relief. After all, we can look at the answers from the Treasury that almost 40%. of what the scheme would cost if it were introduced would be given to the 10%. the richest in Denmark. Almost 60%. of the money would go to the 20%. The richest. So, no, it is not the hard-working employees that they are the most who benefit from this. It's the specialist consultant, it's the chief consultant, and it's the state-authorized accountant who's gonna benefit from this, and we just think it's stupid to spend over 0.5 billion. kr. a year padding well-paid Danes' pockets even more by giving this tax relief. We are, of course, voting in favour of this proposal because it is sensible and because it is part of the financial law agreement for 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164417	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164419	Yeah, you can just have your own private phone if you want to avoid this monster tax on having an employer-paid phone. We heard that earlier in the debate. How does Rune Lund relate to the aspect that people who could have just had one phone with the resource consumption associated with having one phone are now told by you reds that they just have to buy one more so they have two phones?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164449	I don't want people buying one or two phones. Most employer-paid telephones are relatively expensive phones, so you can easily do so, that you just have the employer-paid phone and then pay the tax that you should pay because it is an employee-good. And then you can be happy, because you pay a lot of money, but you also get a lot, typically a expensive phone and the corresponding subscription paid. So, in reality, it is a rather favourable arrangement that we have with the rate set for how high the payment should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164530	How does Mr. Rune Lund, how expensive are most employer-paid phones? In fact, I don't think it's the standard out there that you walk around with Apple phones that are employer-paid. I think that android phones are something more popular than they are here in the Folketing, for example. But still: If a telephone is made available, which does not add up to a value of DKK 2,400. Every year, you just have to buy another phone. Why is that good? Why is it good that people have to walk around with two phones in their pockets? Why is it good for the earth's climate and the consumption of natural resources that you should have two phones rather than one phone?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164617	Well, this bill doesn't force people to buy two phones. In relation to the rate that has been set, I would say that we cannot have a differentiated rate, depending on whether you have a Nokia 3310, or whether you have the latest iPhone. Because what happens next month when prices change again? Should we adjust the rates then? You're gonna have to make a bet that works across. And then it's clear that if an employer had to choose to be greasy I think that's what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's words may be that you are not fully compensated, but in that case you have the opportunity to buy your own phone. But I think we can agree on that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, that there's nothing in this bill that forces someone to buy phone number two.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164702	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164703	I have a company myself, and I have one of them. some student assistants who sometimes help with the telephone shift when they are not at work, so our customers can call in, and then they should very much like to have an employee on the phone, also in the evenings e.g.. Is it reasonable that student assistants who receive a cheap telephone and a working tool should be taxed at DKr 2,800? a year, because they have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164739	In other words, we have to operate with a rate, because otherwise it will be completely strange and incalculable, and then you would have to make differentiated rates depending on the mobile phone you had. If we do that, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov may in fact be suggesting that this rate be reduced so that we are absolutely sure that no matter how cheap a telephone the employer may buy, you will not be able to pay more than that as an employee, so the consequence will be that there will be someone who gets an employer-paid phone, who gets a very expensive phone and who will be very overcompensated by such a change, which would also be socially wrong. I think it is important to stick to the fact that when we look at the distribution effect of what the blue parties have adopted, including Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's party... it's fucked up. It is a tax reduction, which is such a camouflaged top tax reduction, which mainly goes to the richest 10%. And now that we think that the richest should bear a greater share of the burden and are again about to pay a little more to the community, also to lift the welfare and ensure the green transition, well then this is an obvious place to grab hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164847	But my student assistants are not among the richest in society, and therefore I cannot understand why Enhedslisten is in favour of taxing 2,800 DKK. a year. The Enhedslisten admits here in fact that one is in favour of a tax which is actually very, very skewed. You tax people who don't get a lot of money at $2,800. a year, even if they get something worth less than that. All those who have the expensive phones, such as us in the Folketing, are also only taxed by 2,800 DKK. a year, even though the phone we have is worth much more than that. Why is Enhedslisten in favour of such a socially unfair tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205164924	Well, in that case, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov mentions, of course, if it is an economic problem, you can choose to have your own phone next door. It is just important, because then you will avoid the financial loss that we are talking about here. The consequence of what Rasmus Jarlov says is that, in addition to referring to this system as if it were practically socially just, which it is not at all, because it is quite the opposite, and the figures speak clearly here: to set the limit, as I can hear indirectly, is that, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov's proposal would be to make a socially biased arrangement here, wouldn't it? Because there will be some who will be violently overcompensated, and it will typically be people at the heavy end of grades, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165010	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party is growing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165023	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party is both a party in growth and a party in favour of growth, including economic growth, and this is not something that is supported by the legislative proposal we are discussing here. First of all, I think it is petty that an employer-paid telephone should be taxed. I have a small business myself. We have among other things. some student assistants employed who sometimes fit the phone so our customers can reach us even when we're not in the office. It is therefore necessary for them to have such a working tool and, of course, we pay the bill for them. If we give them a phone that's paid by us and a cheap phone subscription, then they'll be taxed by 2,800 kroner. a year. We simply think this is unfair, firstly because it is a working tool; it is necessary for them to get it, and secondly because DKr 2,800. a year is more than the value they get. Then, of course, you can choose, as the left has pointed out in this debate, just not to take that phone and let the employer pay the phone bills. That brings me to two things. Firstly, it means that employees have to have two phones instead of one phone. It is not very good for the environment and the climate to ensure that we all have to run around with two phones instead of just having one phone. Secondly, this leads to quite a lot of administrative trouble in companies, because you have to sit and explain in detail how your phone bills are divided between private and work-related calls. Whether you choose to have the system where you pay the phone and then it can only be used for work-related calls, and then you have to explain that it is the case, or you choose the other model, where the employees just have their own private phone and then the employer gets reimbursement of the calls that are work-related, it is very, very difficult administrative. Therefore, it is simply petty that you cannot just leave people with an employer-paid phone without you getting hurt in the back, that they get a small advantage that they can also use in their private lives. We do not think that pettyness is acceptable to the tax system. We think it is wrong to bring so much trouble down on both companies and employees, and we are therefore very sorry that the new red majority punishes ordinary working Danes with a tax that goes beyond a lot of people who definitely do not belong to the richest part of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165310	Thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. This did not lead to any brief comments, and I would therefore like to welcome Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165328	We support this proposal because it reduces income inequality and maintains the principle that remuneration is taxed, whether in cash or in the form of a free telephone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165346	Thank you very much to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for a brief and clear speech. There were no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. No, we don't. Then we'll take the next rapporteur, and that's sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165407	We are dealing here with an extremely petty bill by the government and the Red Block. We know them when we see such legislative proposals: it is not a matter of keeping a little more of the money they have earned, but of finding any source you can find for taxation under people who make an effort in society. Because these people are making the effort to support themselves and their children and, by the way, they are also paying a lot of taxes to this society, they have to pay even more. These are ordinary people. After all, they are also ordinary people, although on the left you don't think it's craftsmen, they're teachers, they're doctors, they're all sorts of people who can benefit from having an employer-paid phone. And we do not feel that as soon as a group is mentioned, as for example. accountants or lawyers, then it is a bad word and therefore those people must not be allowed to keep more of the money they have earned. In fact, we think that everyone who goes to work in Denmark deserves to keep a little more. The employer-paid telephone is an indispensable tool, and most people know that if you could get rid of such a phone, you would actually like to, but you accept it, despite the fact that it means that you also have to be available to customers and managers, even though you have kept your evening off and have gone home to the family. You pick up the phone when you get a call, and you know that that phone is more a load than it is for private use. It is true that sometimes you also use the phone privately because you don't want to carry two phones around in your pocket, and that is why you now have to pay this tax which we were in the process of abolishing, but which the red majority wants to extend, and we think that is really, really a pity. We're voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165613	Thank you. Nor did it challenge people to brief remarks. And we have come to the tax minister or, as it was said in the old days, the honorable tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205165624	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you very much for the debate and for what one might call a predominantly positive reception of the draft law. As most people have realized, Denmark has a new government and we have a new political majority and together we want to put welfare first. We do this by strengthening young people's education, strengthening help for mentally vulnerable and sick people, restoring confidence in our tax system, and at the same time strengthening the framework for an ambitious green transformation of Denmark, which offers Danish business opportunities for even more growth and prosperity, and which ensures that Denmark takes a stronger international responsibility for the joint fight against the violent climate challenges that we face. That was the mandate that the electorate gave to the government and the parties, who have just made an agreement on next year's Finance Act, in the elections. And, of course, there is good reason to be proud of the financial agreement that has been concluded. It sets a new direction for Denmark, it is fairer, and it also reflects the fact that we are committed to contributing to and, above all, to being responsible for helping to play an active role in resolving some of the challenges that we face as a country and which, as part of active international cooperation, we must both help to solve, but which we are currently facing. That is why, with this bill, we choose to maintain the tax on free telephone. This gives us the opportunity to give a different priority to this, we say frankly and openly. We are strengthening our efforts, as I said, among other things. mentally ill and mentally vulnerable. A very special effort is needed here, and we are now starting this work here with the Financial Law Agreement for 2020. As I said, with this bill, we are proposing to maintain the current taxation of free telephones and the Internet. By maintaining the tax on employee benefits in the form of free telephone and Internet, we are dropping a skewed tax relief, and instead, as I said, we are spending the money on things and issues that the majority gives priority to. It is important for me to stress that, as I said, we are not introducing a new tax on the telephone. Nor is it a question of taxing the use of a working tool, which may well be perceived when we have listened to the debate here. No, we maintain the taxation of employer-paid telephones and the Internet, which are at the private disposal of the individual. That's what's at the heart of it. The current rules, which we propose to continue, already take into account the fact that there should be no taxation of telephone and internet, which is used exclusively for work purposes. With the bill, we are also taking very concrete steps towards reducing income differences in Danish society. At the same time, the proposal follows the principle that wages should be taxed equally, regardless of whether they are paid in cash or in employee benefits, for example in the form of a free telephone. And, of course, in order for the administration of business and government to continue unchanged, it is also important that the legislative proposal be adopted before the tax exemption would have entered into force on 1 January 2020. Therefore, it has been necessary to send the bill in a shortened 5-day hearing at the same time as the submission. I note that there has been a little debate on the consultation deadline, where the short consultation period has been criticised, and I would, of course, agree that this is by no means an entirely optimal consultation process, as has been the case here. However, as I have said, this is a continuation of the existing rules, which are relatively simple, and we have considered that the need to ensure that the administration remains unchanged was the chief concern. I am pleased that, after all, we have received a lot of consultation answers so that they could be sent to the Committee on Taxation, together with the consultation form, in a reasonable time before this first reading of the draft law, and this has, of course, been done because of the relatively short consultation process. Let me conclude by thanking you for a good debate. Of course, we answer all possible questions in the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee and I look forward to continuing constructive consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170057	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170101	This is a very clear example of why there is a lot of administrative trouble for companies and citizens in Denmark. It is because there is a pettiness here in the Folketing that makes it impossible to let people have something like an employer-paid telephone without having to come after them fiscally. It is the case that you are taxed by DKr 2,800. a year to have access to an employer's phone privately, as well as using it as a working tool. This is in many cases a much higher value than what the phone really is worth for private use, since you can get phone subscriptions and a phone that is less than DKr 2,800. Worth a year. That is why it is unreasonable to be taxed by so much. You may well feel that you choose not to, but that means you have to have two phones, which means that you have to have a detailed account of how much you have of calls in private and how much you have that is work-related. It brings huge administrative trouble around. Couldn't we just let people have the employer-paid phone and not be so petty about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170221	Well, actually, this rule is pretty simple. It is basically very, very simple: if the mobile phone is used exclusively in terms of work, there will be no taxation. It's a very simple rule. That's why I think it's only going to get complicated when you're doing this mixing things up. I have very much respect for and spoken to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov about his company, but basically it's very simple. If sir... Rasmus Jarlov tells his employees this, there's no problem. Period.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170259	Well, it's true that the rule is very simple. It is just not simple to manage, because it is not easy to keep detailed accounts of how many of your calls are private and how many are work-related. If my employees choose not to accept an employer-paid phone and I have to refund their phone bills, they must sit and explain whether each call has been work-related or whether it has been private and then submit a statement, and afterwards we can pay. So it is not simple; it is extremely difficult if people have two phones. It's much simpler that they just get to use their employer-paid phone privately, and that's why it's a shame that the government is showing this pettyness and pushing it down on both companies and employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170345	But again: The scheme is very simple in its starting point. In other words, in the case of work-related, work-related use, there is no tax. And for many years there has been a grey area and a discussion about the grey area, which means that even if individual calls of a private nature are made, they fall under the same rule. Basically, the system is very simple. This is basically about continuing with the rules that apply today, because that is what we think is right, and then we spend the money on other things: removing training savings and ensuring more research, which also benefits the business community and which, moreover, they are very pleased about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170434	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170435	Now the Minister and I were so lucky that we were also here yesterday, when we debated a very good proposal from the Danish People's Party and talked about a simplistic committee and that we wanted to make things easier. I remember the Minister saying that there should be a strong dialogue with business about what should be simplified, what should be facilitated, what should be done etc., but I could not see what the specific objective was. Now the minister says that this rule is super simple to administer. Can the Minister tell me how much you can use your phone privately before you cross the border? Often you are on Facebook too, and it may be for purely work-related reasons - when, how much and how little can you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170527-2	If in doubt, you can call the tax authorities. There is a very firm practice in this area and that should not be a problem. So you can call and get an answer if that's what you want. The point is that if the phone is used for work purposes, then it is clear that if you take it home and make a few private calls, then there is no problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170555	Now I've almost just been an employee. I have had several different jobs and all the times I have had two mobile phones, which I do not think promotes the green transition that the Minister would like to have. The first time I worked at the former SKAT, and there it was a bit awkward, in case those who called there also called me privately. So maybe it made sense that I had two phones. The second time it was some nice, dear students, but I chose to have two phones anyway. It wasn't so good, but I kept doing it. My employer couldn't really figure out when something was private and when something wasn't. And there are a lot of employers who can't do that. Can't we just make the rules a little clearer in this area? Couldn't it be easier if we just abolished this tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170636-2	We do not want to do that, and we do not want to do so because we want to give different priority to it. We will give priority to the green transition; we will give priority to the efforts of the mentally ill and mentally vulnerable. We will increase efforts in our hospitals and in the community welfare. You can see that in great adverts today that the Left Party also wants to do so. It's kind of awkward to find out where the money's supposed to come from. Here we have said that we are maintaining a tax. We are not setting up a tax; we are maintaining a tax. And then we spend the money to strengthen our basic welfare. We think this is a fine and proper priority, which helps to make our society stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170717	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170719	The Minister mentions in his speech that he is proud and pleased with the Finance Act, which, after all, contains the point that, in the future, private use of free telephone should also be taxed. And it's fair enough that you're happy about it. I just want to ask the tax minister if he is also proud and happy that those who sit in the Folketing will not be subject to this tax? Well, using the phone is tax-free for us who sit in here because it is a work tool, but for everyone else something else applies. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that they should be taxed on the private use of free telephone? So, as a minister, do we not think that we should perhaps make legislation which also applies to the legislature itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170754-2	I think it is quite fair that we can discuss remuneration and arrangements, the remuneration of ministers and members of parliament, etc. I think that is quite fine; I understand that, and that is something I am hearing at the moment. But it is not true that Members of Parliament are not taxed. We do. Then there's a cost supplement. That's right. But it is not true that we are not taxed on the free telephone. You can see this from your payroll or payroll, which you get from the Modernisation Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170824	It is true that it appears on the payroll of Members of Parliament that you are taxed by free telephone. In return, we receive a tax-free supplement, which includes: This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of telephones. Why, then, should a tax-free supplement be made available to cover the costs of a telephone already provided by the employer, who is the Folketing? I just think that if it is so important and quite reasonable for people to be taxed by free telephone, then perhaps you could have written a letter of intent in the Finance Act that you would try to have a discussion with the parties of the Folketing to change it, so that the Folketing was subject to the same rules as the people. So, I think there are many people sitting there wondering why it is so important for the Social Democratic Party that you get tax free telephones for ordinary Danes, whereas for us in the Folketing there should be no taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170908	Well, there's taxation. But there is also a cost supplement. We agree on that. And that is something that needs to be discussed. I think it is quite fine to take that discussion and I also understand that it is going on. What comes out of it is up to the Folketing. I think it is quite fair that that discussion should be taken. But it is just not right to say that members of parliament are not taxed. They are taxed on equal terms with others.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170934	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170936	What's the climate accounting on this action that's gonna make more people walk around with two phones?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170944	We can easily answer or try to answer that in the Tax Committee, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205170951	I guess you've found that out in the negotiations. I know that some of the parties in particular say that they are very concerned that the consequences for the climate must be calculated in all parts of the legal system, and here we are dealing with something that clearly has a major impact on the climate. We can hear that people are being encouraged to have two phones instead of one. So I guess it's calculated, and I actually just want the number.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171014	We are happy to answer that in the Committee on Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171017	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments in this round. No one else has asked to speak either, so the negotiations are closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation, where a lot of questions can also be answered, as the Minister's speech shows. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171046	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171110	Thank you. The bill that we are discussing here today must be seen as part of the 2020 Finance Act, where the government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have agreed to extend the special scheme for lower electricity charges for charging electric vehicles, a Finance Act where we put nuclear welfare and green conversion first. Specifically, the low electricity charging scheme is extended for 2 years up to and including 2021, and the extension should be seen in the context of the fact that the Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars in 2020 is expected to make recommendations for the design of car taxation in the longer term. Under current rules, the system of low electricity tax for commercial charging of electric cars, etc. expires. By the end of 2019, the general electricity charge will apply to all charges. For an electric car that runs 13,000 km annually, corresponding to the average annual service for a petrol car, the proposal here will result in a tax reduction by 2020 of approx. 2,750 kr. including VAT, with which the tax payment will amount to approx. 12-13 kr. annual. For comparison, an average newly registered petrol car is paid up to DKK 5,750. in petrol tax, including VAT, thus reducing the total cost of owning an electric vehicle and thus promoting the sale of electric and plugin hybrid vehicles. With the bill, we want to promote the green transition and the incentive for citizens to choose electric cars by reducing the total cost of using an electric car. The Social Democratic Party therefore naturally supports the bill, which also applies to the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171302	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171306	We also support this bill. We think it makes sense, but we really wanted it to be wider than this. Why do you have to have a subscription with Clever or E.on or some of the other electricity suppliers to get this discount on your electricity for the electric car? Why can't you get that discount if you leave your own plug at home in the carport without having to worry about a subscription with some of these professional providers?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171335	That sounds like a plausible question which I would like to take part in the further work in committee. I'd like to take that with me. Thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171352	The questioner? Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171353	I would actually have asked the same question, but it is fair enough that you cannot answer it now. So I'm actually gonna try to ask you something else. The rapporteur says that the reduction in the rate of flow, if bought through a business activity, is equivalent to a tax relief of DKr 2,700. Would the rapporteur not just confirm that the vast majority of those who have electric cars today are typically Tesla owners who are in the top income decibels, i.e. those who have the most money in advance? The reason why I am asking about this is that, in connection with the previous proposal, one could understand that it was the distributional consequences that were absolutely crucial in these financing proposals and the things that were spent on. Isn't it true that with an action like this it is mainly those with most money and those who drive electric cars who get the 2,700 DKK. More in your pocket?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171439	Yes, but with the bill here we want to promote the green transition and the incentive for citizens to choose electric cars, and we do so by reducing the total cost of using electric cars. We think it is right that we should continue with the low electricity charging scheme for 2 years up to 2021 and then look at what the Eldrup Commission will make of recommendations in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171511	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171512	The question was not really answered there. I have also read the bill, and I agree that it may be a good move, but it is just to test the policy of the Socialists, who say that they are very concerned about this balance, that tax cuts should not be given to those who have a lot of money and that those who have to pay should be those who have a lot of money. Here there is then a tax relief of DKK 2,700, which mainly benefits those who have a lot of money and who can afford to buy a Tesla. Because it's mainly Teslas that drive around out there like electric cars. So can the Socialist rapporteur just confirm that this is a tax relief of DKK 2,700, which goes mainly to those who already have the most?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171548	There is no doubt that our Finance Act will strengthen both core welfare and the green transition, and we think it is sensible to encourage citizens to buy an electric car, which is why we also have this bill. We put core welfare and green transition first with our Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171614	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171626	Thank you. I might as well say this first as last time: this bill is a proposal that the Left likes. We do so because the bill extends the special scheme for commercial charging of electric cars to the low electricity tax of 0.4 cents per annum. kWh. In the Left, we are pleased with schemes that make it easier and cheaper to operate in Denmark and which also promote green conversion. As most people in this House know, the Left in its time extended the special arrangements. We did so only in 2017, when we were in government. In this light, of course, we are pleased that the Social Democratic Government has chosen to continue the scheme for two more years until 31 December 2021. We are happy because electric cars are part of the green transition, whether private car or commercial vehicles. By having a low charge on the charging of electric cars, we ensure that the total cost of having electric cars is lower, thereby promoting the use of electric cars. That's good. In addition to continuing the lower tax on electric cars, the bill also aims to introduce a standard rate of tax on petrol mixed with 9.8%. Biofuels. It is only about two weeks since we first dealt in this Chamber with a legislative proposal that increases the incorporation of biofuels from 1 January 2020, and this means that the oil industry must introduce gasoline into 10 percentage points of biofuels, E10, into the market. And with this bill, we are introducing a standard rate that makes it administratively easier to pay for energy and CO2 It is always good to facilitate administration, so of course we are also in favour of that. Our only concern about this bill is about funding. The extension of the special scheme gives a small amount of revenue to the Treasury of 30 million. kr. in 2020 and 50 million; kr. in 2021. We are concerned that the money fits, and that is why we would like to know how the government finances the bill, in other words where the money is to come from. However, if funding is not in place, we in the Left are in favour of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171844	Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. There are no brief comments. So we're gonna go over to sir's. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205171851	Thank you. I think I can be relatively brief, because I agree with the other rapporteurs that it is quite reasonable to extend the system for the commercial charging of electric cars so that they can keep this low rate of 0.4 cents. The scheme will be extended for two years, which makes good sense, because then we will be on the other side of this Green Transport Commission. But, by the way, I'd like to, just like Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned in a brief remark, saying that I might also think that you should have a look at why the low rate should be dependent on you doing it via a company. So, if you choose to charge in your garage privately, why should you have a higher rate than if you make a business deal? If it is a question of promoting the green transition, it is not a question of charging via a company. I guess what matters is that you have an electric car that's charging. That is why we think it might be possible to examine why it is only the low rate you get if it is through a company agreement, and not if you just load up in your own garage. But I do think that this is, after all, an extension of a system that is known, and that is positive, but I would like it to be extended, namely to examine whether it could be extended. We have no comment to make on the second part about stricter requirements for the incorporation of biofuels, where there are some schemes that make it easier to manage. That is quite positive. I have promised on behalf of the new citizens, who could not be here because of some negotiations, to say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172008	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments here either. Does anyone wish to be rapporteur on the Radical Left? No, they sent a greeting. I'm sorry. The next one is sir. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172022	Thank you for the floor. The bill is part of the many measures to ensure the green transition. One step on the road is to make it easier for the Danes to choose an electric car. The ideal is a tax exemption for electric cars, but SF welcomes every small step on the road. That is why we support a lower electricity tax on electric cars and a standard rate of taxation. However, in committee, the SF would like to look at the proposal to adjust the electric cartridge system and the fact that fossil fuels can be used for heat production. Subject to that part of the bill, the SF shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172101	Thank you for that, sir. Carl Valentin. And a warm welcome to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten ▪ De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172108	This bill is made up of two different parts. It consists of an extension of the low electricity charge for the charging of electric cars outside their own homes. After all, a lower electricity tax is being paid today when the chargers set up are being used than the normal electricity tax. We support an extension to promote electric cars, and this is also part of the financial law that has just been agreed. The second part is about changing the charges for a higher incorporation requirement for biofuels. We do not support a higher inclusion requirement. There will be a higher mixing requirement, because you have to comply with some EU rules in 2020 and only in 2020. Then you increase the mixing requirement in order to comply with the EU rules in 2020 and only in 2020. But higher incorporation does not produce a better environmental or climate effect, actually on the contrary, because biofuels in terms of the incorporation requirement make the climate effect worse because there is a negative environmental and climate effect by using the biofuels in petrol. In addition, it also increases particle contamination because there is not the same clean combustion. Furthermore, there is also a third aspect which is, of course, about taking food out of the mouths of poor people around third world countries in connection with biofuels. So we would really like to have this bill split up, because of course we want to vote in favour of the part relating to the Finance Act, but we do not want to support that part of the bill which is the result of a higher incorporation requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172320	Thank you. Welcome, sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172333	The Conservative People's Party can also support the bill. We see it as a step towards having a tax system that favours green technologies. We would, of course, like to support that, since we are at least as concerned about reducing our CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172358	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Welcome to Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172410	In the alternative, we are pleased that we have had an extension of the tax system on electricity for passenger cars, buses and lorries. It is important that there is stability in the electric car market. That is because electricity prices are fixed and we know them two years in the future. We have seen in the past how the system of driving back and forth with the conditions of the electric cars has destroyed the electric car market. We need a shift from cars powered by fossil fuel to electric cars at this point in time electric cars are our best bet. I would have liked the reduced tax to last until we have a permanent solution, but we expect the Eldrup Commission, which is to deliver a concrete strategy on how to promote the green transition in our transport sector, to complete their work so that those things will collapse. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172511	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. I don't see anyone from New Citizen in the hall. Then we'll go over to mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172521	We also support the bill, which might as well have been drafted by ourselves, except that it would then have been a broader and larger legislative proposal. However, if we are to have a green transition in Denmark, we have to get used to the idea that we cannot have the world's most expensive power for consumers because there is so much tax, VAT and taxes on it. There are several reasons why the Norwegians are so diligently driving around in electric cars. One is that they have completely exempted electric cars from registration tax. Another is that you can drive in different places with electric cars that you cannot with ordinary cars. And a third reason is that electricity in Norway costs only a quarter for the consumer compared to Denmark. When you want to charge an electric car with a large battery from 0 per cent. 100 per cent. in Denmark, it costs over 200 DKK, but in Norway it costs only 50 DKK. This, of course, makes a difference in the desire to buy electric cars. This bill extends the tax exemption on the electricity you charge when you are a customer of professional electricity suppliers for electric cars. That's what you should do. But it should be the same if you leave at home in your own carport with a plug that you just got an electrician to set up and who has not involved any professional electricity supplier for electric cars. Why shouldn't that power be exempted? I hope there is some sensible answer to the fact that it is difficult to keep track of whether you use the power at home for the electric car, or whether you use it for any other hedge trimmer, or whatever you might use it for. But could you not think of a way that people can put something up on the plug they use for the electric car, so what they set up measures how much power they use for the electric car and that it is only used for the electric car? That must be possible, otherwise there is only the other way to go, and I certainly think we should do that, namely just to lower the electricity tax in general for everyone, whether they use the power for cars or mixers or what they use it for. That's the way we're going. We cannot have a green transition of Denmark to the consumption of energy via power produced by our wind turbines if we maintain that we must have such high taxes on our electricity. So let's take this as a first step towards lowering and gladly eliminating the high taxes on electricity in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172811	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205172821	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for the broad support for the bill. It is true, as the debate has also shown a little that this is a legislative proposal which is an extension, but some of the issues raised here today are also issues that we will have to address sooner or later, if we still do so, I hope that I can agree on the importance of Denmark taking the lead in the green transition. However, as I have said, the government, together with the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, has concluded the financial agreement for 2020, which shows that the majority want the green transition. And as part of that transformation, the government and the majority have a goal that there will be more green cars on the roads. It is not only good for the environment, it is good for future generations too. It is good for the sustainability of our society. We will make a contribution to that now, and we will also secure funding with this proposal. That is why, of course, I am pleased that we have come together in a majority, which ensures calm on car taxes for electric cars and other low-carbon cars, towards the follow-up to the recommendations on the reorganisation of car taxes by the Green Conversion Commission. After all, as several speakers have said, the Commission is expected to make its recommendations by 2020. What is at the heart of the matter is, of course, that, with the Financial Act, we are maintaining the level of green car tax on the sensible 2019 rules next year, in other words by 2020. This applies both to the registration fee and to the electricity for charging. So when the Danes have to choose whether to buy an electric car or a conventional car, both the price of the car itself and the running costs that are charging the electric car with electricity are, of course, essential. It's self-evident. This bill extends the special scheme for the commercial charging of electric cars. In the context of the cancellation of the planned increase in registration tax on green cars, which the government will shortly be proposing, the proposal will create good opportunities for the use of electric cars in Denmark and more green cars on the Danish roads. It is proposed that the current special scheme with low charge on electric car charging should be extended for two years, i.e. until 31 December 2021. And as it has also been advanced, I think it was Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, who mentioned it, is it with pride in his voice that we can then say that for an average driver it will mean a saving of approx. 2,700 kr. in 2020, compared to if you had otherwise paid the full tax. The proposal therefore reduces the total cost of using an electric car and thus helps to turn electric cars into a green alternative to conventional cars. The proposed extension of two years must of course be seen in the light of the fact that, as I have said, the Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars is expected to make recommendations in the course of 2020 on the design of the car tax system in the slightly longer term. The bill also contains some technical changes to energy taxes and CO2 Today there is a demand for incorporation of approx. 5% biofuels in petrol for which special standard rates are laid down in the tax laws. By 2020, the incorporation requirement increases to approx. 10% Biofuels, and it is therefore proposed to adapt the Danish rules on energy taxes and also for CO2 It has been a wish of the industry to lay down administratively simple rules for the calculation of the tax, which is thus met with this proposal. Thank you very much for the debate here today and thank you for the broad support for the proposal. It is clear that, of course, we would like to make ourselves available to committee and to any questions that might be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173248	No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173300	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173326	Thank you for the floor. The government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have ensured with the 2020 Finance Act a significant boost to our common welfare and the green transition next year. We are proud of this in the Social Democratic Party. We're gonna do this with an open mind, with our forehead lifted. The legislative proposal here today has to be seen in relation to the Finance Act, which increases a number of charges in order to finance the good participation in the 2030 Finance Act and to take steps towards reducing products that we would like to have less quantities of in our society, in particular carry bags, disposable services and cigarettes. The Government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative agree that more plastic should be recycled and that plastic pollution should be reduced as too much plastic goes into nature. At the same time, it will strengthen the green transition, and that is why we are introducing a threefold increase in the charges for carrier bags and one-off services for packaging. The packaging fee has not been regulated since 1998 and today amounts to DKK 22. per kg for plastic bags and DKK 10 per kg for paper bags etc. and DKK 19,20. excluding VAT per person kg for one-time service. With a triple rate of taxation, the price is estimated to increase by approx. 1 kr. per carry bag and with approx. 30% on one-time service. The tax increase is estimated to reduce the consumption of carrier bags by approx. 40%, including a reduction in the amount of plastic waste of approx. 3,000 tonnes by 2020. Similarly, the consumption of disposable services is estimated to decrease by approx. 30% equivalent to 2,600 tonnes per year. Similarly, the parties want fewer people to die from smoking and fewer young people to start smoking. It is therefore necessary to introduce measures to limit smoking. According to research, higher prices are the most effective means of reducing smoking among children and young people, which is why the parties agree to increase taxes on cigarettes and tobacco in two stages, which means that the average price of a package of cigarettes in April 2020 will rise to approx. 55 kr. and further to approx. 60 kr. in January 2022. In order to avoid increased consumption of other tobacco products, the other tobacco taxes on smoking tobacco, cigars, etc. are increased. and smoke-free tobacco accordingly. The tax increases mean that the price of cigarettes increases by approx. 50%, which is estimated to result in a fall in consumption of just under 20%, taking into account the fact that the proposal leads to an increase in cross-border trade in the products covered. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173625	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173628	Thank you. During the election campaign, there was a lot of discussion about raising cigarette prices, where Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the current prime minister from the rapporteur's party, was out to say that she wanted higher prices for cigarettes for young people, but that one had to have a differentiated price so that older people were not affected by the understanding that it was well known that this would hit socially wrong. And now it was a social democratic government that put forward this bill before there was a financial agreement, so it was not the case that there was influence from other parties. So I would just like to ask: where did it go, that is to say, this provision for elderly people not to be affected by what they wanted to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173708-2	It is quite true that this proposal was advanced in the election campaign and it has proved impossible to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173718	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173719	You knew that so well back then. So would the rapporteur not just confirm that it was a once-in-a-lifetime electoral bluff? It was well known that making two differentiated taxes would be quite difficult. But what could have been done, on the other hand, was so that pensioners could have been compensated for it. So you could have raised the green check or done something else. Why hasn't it been done in this bill or in the Finance Act? Because it is quite inequitable because it is typically those who have the lowest incomes and, in fact, the lowest education courses that are the most smoking. And they're the ones who're going to pay the higher cigarette prices. So why have they not been compensated for, among other things? by an opportunity that could be the green check?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173755	This is a bill that helps to underpin the common thread of our Finance Act, precisely that we are lifting the core welfare and that there is social balance. We find funding for the necessary measures, also in terms of health and also in relation to our older fellow citizens, and also in relation to demographic developments, where, fortunately, we are becoming more children and more elderly. And the municipalities must have an economy so that they can strengthen their core welfare. That's the red thread. As I told you earlier today, I visited Varde Municipality the other day. In such a municipality as Varde Municipality you get 20-30 million. kr. more annually for nuclear welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173839	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173841	I'm a little puzzled about the green effect of this bill. What is the sustainability effect of adopting these tax increases? In other words, how much will consumption fall on one-off services, how much will consumption fall on carrier bags because of doubling the tax? And now I understand that the tax will be tripled. What's the effect of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173907	We clearly want to go in and behavior-regulate in relation to this plastic that we want less consumption of. So that's why we raise prices, including on plastic bags. It is about behaviour, it is about the environment, it is about climate, and it is also about health. And then we do, of course, that we find funding for good investment in our children, in our elderly, in our health care. And the money's gotta take care of it. No one has a money tree, nor over in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205173944	I think that the questioner will do very well at the end, because it is precisely a question of generating revenue and not of having a green transition. Well, if it's the green that's in focus, I just want to know what effect it will have in terms of sustainability. Then it has to have some effect in terms of our consuming something less. And what does this proposal mean in relation to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174006	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174007	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we estimate that this will result in lower consumption for the benefit of our environment. And, as I said earlier, we are also doing this in order to find funding in relation to the good investments in welfare for our children, nurses, more educators. It also benefits our business community, because companies also benefit from a good primary school for young people, that they can take up youth education, that they can get jobs and find a foothold in the labour market. And then it's like...
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174046	Thank you! Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174050	There are so many things in life that are unhealthy if you do it too much. And we all do something that is unhealthy if we do it too much, even running a lot. If you run too much, it is unhealthy in the long run; they simply get worn knees off it and get more in the hospital and have to have new knees at some point etc. Others take a glass of alcohol every now and then, and perhaps a glass too much, and then there are those who eat too much chocolate and chips etc. Is the truth not that the Socialists are attacking the smokers directly because the smokers know that they do not constitute a majority in society? All the other vices have so many, but those who smoke know you're a minority, so you can come after them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174137-2	I mean, it's true that cigarette prices are going to rise. In the first place, they are increased to $5 (U.S.). and later to 60 kr. Again: We do this consciously and with an open mind. We would also like to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. This we know is important; research and experience from other countries shows us that the price is important to young people starting with smoking. At the same time, we have maintained a social balance by adding the price level initially to DKK 55. and then 60 kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174218	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174218-2	Well, it's ridiculous to call it a social balance. The fact that you increase the price of smoking a pack of cigarettes by 50% is not a social balance. We know that most of those who smoke cigarettes come from some income classes that are not the highest in society. But let me ask you something else: every week Polish craftsmen travel back and forth between Denmark and Poland. Down there, I think a pack of cigarettes costs about 23-24 kroner. Or something like that. How many cigarettes do the Social Democrat rapporteur think they will take across the border next time they come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174300	As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, this will have an impact on cross-border trade. First of all, it will also have an impact in relation to fewer children and young people starting to smoke. It will also encourage other groups in the population not to smoke. This has a clear health objective, and at the same time there is a social balance by keeping the price increases of DKK 55 first. And then 60 kroner. Then we'll get funding to do all these good things for our welfare community, which I've listed several times today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174335	Thank you. Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174337	Thank you. After all, the proposal here is estimated to reduce the overall amount of waste with considerable uncertainty, as it is said by about 6,000 tonnes per year. One of the things we sometimes forget when we talk about waste amounts is that we use waste for something. After all, we burn it off at our very, very well-functioning waste stations around the country, where it becomes district heating. So these 6,000 tonnes are going to be missing from our garbage accounts. Is that something that the rapporteur has given us?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174413	But it is quite true that we estimate that the tax increase here is estimated to reduce the consumption of carrier bags by approx. 40% and will result in a reduction in the amount of plastic waste of approximately 3,000 tonnes according to the figures I have received in 2020. And the consumption of one-off services is estimated to decrease by approximately 30%. annual. For me, that is the essential point here, while at the same time, with these tax increases, we are creating funding so that we can increase our welfare in relation to the core welfare areas in the municipalities, in other words, more nurses, efforts to combat social dumping, green conversion, and so on. That's the most important thing for me in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174502	I should just like to remind you that you have to press ahead, because then I know up here that you would like to have another brief comment. Kathrine Ollldag Oh, sorry). It's fine, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174510	It is good to hear that the rapporteur also recognizes how little a green influence this might actually have on our nature. One of the things I heard the Social Democrats talk a lot about when this proposal was first put forward was that plastic is lying around in the wild and how this proposal should help to reduce our consumption of plastic. It has a revenue objective, of course, and that is also why we support it. Of course, it also has an impact on our behavior, but there's, after all, a minimal green effect of this. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174555	Well, we have obvious and definite ambitions for the green and green transition. So, let me just mention, in relation to the Finance Act, that in the years 2020-2029 there will be EUR 25 billion. kr. in a green fund. And compared to the bill here: We need less plastic, we need fewer plastic bags. That is why we are raising prices. This is important for our environment, and then we create funding for all the good things in the welfare field.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174628	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205174640	This bill contains a number of tax increases. First of all, on carrier bags and one-off services, where the government is proposing to double taxes, and now we are talking about a threefold increase with the financial law that has just been concluded. The purpose of the tax increases is to minimise the consumption of plastics and the quantities of waste. That is what we in the Left fully support. Nor do we in the Left have a problem with fixing taxes if it can contribute to a green transition. Of course, without becoming more expensive to be a Dane or weakening our competitiveness. The problem with this bill is that it doesn't contribute to the green transition. The charges will be imposed equally, whether they are products made from new or recycled materials. The charges do not therefore provide incentives to strengthen recycling or circular economy. In other words, they are flat taxes, not green taxes. Worse still, the bill actually slows down the development of environmentally sound products. One-off service and carrier bags made of more environmentally friendly materials are more often heavier than new plastic, and as the charge is calculated by weight, the unit price for more sustainable products becomes more expensive. We think that is quite wrong. Looks like the government isn't preoccupied with reducing plastic consumption with this bill. They are concerned with creating revenue for the Treasury, and we are against that. Even the legal notes show that the tax base for one-off services is estimated to be the same, i.e. no lower consumption. And in the case of carry bags, consumption is already falling because we expect to introduce a ban on the supply of free carry bags. So it is not an additional tax that helps to reduce consumption here either. In fact, the government itself admits that it is clear from the comments on the consultation answers, and I quote: The revenue from the increase in the charges for carrier bags and one-off services is intended to finance public welfare in general. So it's nothing with a green switch. Nor shall it be established a phase-in period. I think it is highly questionable that a tax doubling should already take effect in a few weeks' time. It shows so much that the government is not concerned that the business community should have the opportunity to adjust to more environmentally sound solutions, but is concerned only with quickly creating revenue for the Treasury. So, to sum up, we believe that the charges are the only ones that make it more expensive to be a Dane. We are against this. Then there is the last part of the bill which aims to raise the tobacco tax. Again, we are concerned that the bill alone is about getting as much revenue as possible. With the way the tax increases are screwed together, with an increase of DKK 5 first. And then 5 kroner. In fact, it ensures that the increase gives maximum tax revenue and minimal health impact. In the Left, we are concerned that fewer people should start smoking. We find it particularly worrying that more young people are starting to smoke. That is why the Left has also said what we also voted for, namely that a package of cigarettes should be raised by DKK 20. in one chop to 60 kr. According to experts, this price increase has the greatest health effect. So we're wondering if the government really cares about getting fewer smokers. To be honest, I actually think that the government is more concerned with playing revenue bingo, and with this tax the government seems to get full record: full funding for a red finance bill. After all, however, I should like to remind you that the Left is a pragmatic party. Therefore, we can accept that the tobacco tax looks as it does in the proposal. We in the Left can do that because little after all is better than nothing. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister to divide up the bill so that we can vote in favour of the part concerning tobacco taxes and against the part relating to taxes on one-off services and carrier bags. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175042	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175045	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur, although I do not agree at all with her on the issue of charges for the sake of charges and that it is becoming more expensive to be a Dane. At the same time, the rapporteur then says that the Left would have raised the taxes on cigarettes even more. How is it that this is connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175115	These are two different charges. One is about taxes in relation to the green switch-over, at least that is the purpose, but it really is not, because it does not contribute to the green switch-over. In fact, it does the opposite because you distort it and make it less advantageous to use recycled materials. That is why I say that it is taxes for the sake of taxes, and we in the Left are against that. The second is the tobacco tax, and that is something quite different. It is not at all about the green transition, it is about health. Here the Left voted that we thought a package of cigarettes should cost DKK 60, and with this proposal it is proposed to raise taxes on cigarettes, and that is why we naturally support that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175153	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175154	We are now being told that taxes are due and that, at the same time, the Left would raise the tax on cigarettes even higher. I have gradually understood that for the Left it is a mantra to say that being a Dane is becoming more expensive. However, since the rapporteur is critical of the other tax increases, which must clearly go to the welfare promise, can the rapporteur tell me which of these welfare promises the Left will roll back if they are given power as they have heeded? For example, is it... investment in a better primary school? Is it in relation to demographic development, in other words, that we should have money for the elderly and children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175235	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175236	I recognise that there are also good things in the government's Finance Act, but there are also things that we do not support, and at least we do not want to make it more expensive to be a Dane. We think it is quite wrong to finance it, and it is quite clear from this proposal that we are raising just a few taxes in order to increase public welfare. That's what it says. We want to contribute to raising taxes in relation to the green transition, but it must be neutral because it must not be more expensive to be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175308	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175309	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say about the cigarette tax that it is now in the Finance Act that the price is fortunately up to DKK 60, and that is wonderful. In relation to plastic bags and one-off services: does Mrs Marie Bjerre not recognise that the fact that there are increased prices for it helps to raise awareness of the problem by using so many disposable products, whether they are service or plastic bags, and that it can therefore be culturally changing, so that it can also be contaminated with other packaging products?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175344	Thank you. Yes, I recognise that price regulation here can have an effect, but we have already dealt with this in the Chamber. Nearly two weeks ago we were dealing with a bill to introduce a ban on the free delivery of carrier bags of all types of materials, plastic, paper, textiles. And we are in the Left for that because we believe it has an effect on the green transition. At least we cannot see this bill having any effect on the green transition, that is to say it should also help to reduce consumption, and there is nothing about that in the comments. The reason why the consumption of carrier bags is decreasing is, of course, that one among other things. is introducing this ban on the free supply of plastic bags and then, by the way, because the industry has been very good at providing information. Compared to the one-off service part, there doesn't seem to be a decrease in consumption, and there it's quite questionable because you have a flat charge that's the same, regardless of what material the disposable service is made of... whether it's made of clean, virgin plastic or recycled plastic. So this does not at all transform into more sustainable, one-off services that we would like to have. So it's actually the opposite of being green.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175454	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205175501	The bill deals with several different elements, and I will start with the part that is about carrying bags. It is clear from the draft law that the tax must be doubled, but I assume that it is a threefold increase that we are talking about, because that is what the draft budget says. The charge is a weight-based charge, which means that it is the weight of the bag that determines how much charge should be. I would like to begin by just commenting on the fact that we had an election campaign, where we were told by the Socialists that we could be sure that it was not quite ordinary Danes who were going to get tax increases, it was only the 5%. The richest. I just want to say that I know that it is quite ordinary Danes who buy bags when they shop down in Brugsen or in REMA 1000 or in Netto, or whatever they do. So it's another promise that didn't keep. But I would also like to criticise this draft law for not being targeted, because it also affects bags of recycled plastics, for example. And bags of recycled plastic are typically heavier than regular new plastic bags. So you're left with this not supporting a circular use of materials: it doesn't give any incentive to make recycled plastic bags and then use them instead. Then it is also the case that if you look at what you need instead of plastic bags, it could be a fabric bag and it is duty-free. But the Danish EPA has come up with an analysis that says you need a fabric bag several thousand times before it is environmentally better than a plastic bag. So I also think it was actually quite liberating that the radical rapporteur said in a brief remark that this had a minimal green effect. This isn't about the environment at all; it's about funding. And you could just say that honestly. Then there is a lot about one-off services, which will also have tripled the tax with the financial bill, and here it is also a tax that is weight-based. And it's kind of the same problem, because a lot of biodegradable disposable services have actually been developed, so something that may have been made of bamboo or palm leaves or other things, that is things that in principle, not because I recommend it, can be thrown into nature, and then they actually perish by themselves, but it typically weighs more than that of plastic. So they are hit proportionately harder by a tripling of the tax, so it is not exactly something that promotes a green transition when the one-off service, which is actually green and is not a problem, should not be taxed just a little, but that the tax should be tripled. I think that is completely ridiculous. So just following on from yesterday's debate on all the crappy charges, I would say that if you get a cardboard plate like that that you get with a sausage on down in the sausage cart, there is a tax on it and it is then tripled. But if the plate has a length or diameter of over 33 cm, there is no charge, because then it is a dish. Let me predict that when we go down to the sausage cart in a little bit, we're gonna get little sausage in giant barrels, because then there's not a triple tax. It's lawless. You go down and buy one-time things, for example. a burger wrapping at McDonald's or Burger King, then it is not charged. But the sausage tray is an environmental mess, people shouldn't have them! We have to stop them. If you take sticks or straws, there is no charge on them, but drinks are a piggy. They have to be tripled in the tax. Popsicles that sit up in an ice cream and that you keep on, there's no charge on. But if you get the same amount of ice in a cup, where the same stick helps to sit and eat, then the charge is tripled on this stick. It is somewhat sloppy that we now have a triple, and again we are left with a feeling that this has no environmental impact. It's about money. Because while you are sitting and doubling the tax, the European Union has a one-off plastic directive, which means that in 2021 we will actually have a ban on the disposable plastic service, that is to say plastic cutlery, which means that the vast majority of the products that you want us to use less are actually banned. So after that time we just have a charge left on the biodegradable, i.e. on bamboo products or plates made of palm leaves. After all, it seems a bit desperate to find funding, which does not even make sense because it is regulated in a different way. I would say that if you could at last make such a certification scheme, so if something was compostable, there was a lower tax or no tax on it, and then there was a higher tax on what was made by, for example, what was created by. plastic materials. But it's not really in this. It's gonna get the same. So it is not about the environment; it is about the Danes simply having to pay higher taxes and taxes. Then there is the increase in the tax on tobacco and cigarettes, which is also increasing a great deal. This will result in massive border trade. The bill itself says that it will double in the case of cigarettes, and then not even a single penny from other products has been included. I mean, when people drive to the border and buy cigarettes, there should be a chance that they also bought a soda or beer or some candy with them. But then there's an effect on zero. It will also increase illegal trade. We have seen this with the candy tax, which is high in Denmark, but zero in Sweden and Germany. So there's a lot of illegal trade. So when we make higher taxes on cigarettes in Denmark, there will be more illegal trade. But most importantly, this affects the elderly, who smoke, proportionately harder. This is typically the case with taxes: they hit the hardest on those who have the lowest incomes, and it is, of course, older, or people who do not have much money, as you also know, typically more often smoke. So it is a breach of the Socialists' promise that they would make a differentiated tax, and now it did not come. Moreover, as far as the other points in the draft budget are concerned, it has been said that we should have more equality in Denmark, but if we look at the similarity in the cigarette section, then it corresponds to an increase in the Gini coefficient of 0.2. That doesn't sound like much, but it's equivalent to reducing the top tax by 3 percentage points. It has the same inequality-building effect. So this is something that is quite inequitable, so it sounds a little hollow when it was the argument behind the bill. Well, I'll say that the Danish People's Party cannot so surprisingly support the bill, and I have promised to say from New Citizens that they cannot support the bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180103	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180111	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur does not support the proposal, but I think that there is a passage in the Finance Act on one-off services that we are going to discuss, in other words how biodegradable services are to be treated in relation to plastic services. So there is, of course, an opportunity to go in and see how we can compensate for the unfortunate fact that biodegradable disposable services are being hit twice, precisely because they are heavier than plastics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180147	I take it most of all as a recognition that it is illegal to know that there is a problem; that is, that it is not about the environment, because then it would have been taken into account by the fact that there were materials made from biodegradable bamboo leaves or palm leaves. It would then have been some way out of the way of making an arrangement. You could have done that first. After all, we cannot make a tax that is quite wrong when we want to have an environmentally friendly product and something that can be recycled, and then say that we may look at it later and find a solution. You gotta start with that. After all, the Finance Act clearly recognises that this is one of the issues, and then we should do something about it first.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180226	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180228	Well, now I'm new to this game, but I'm thinking that there are things that need to be further processed. So when this is sent to committee, it is also because it needs to be dealt with further. And with the Finance Act it is not just so finished; it is also a prelude to something that needs to be worked on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180246	It's fair enough that you have a new one. But I myself have been a tax rapporteur for a number of years, and this is not a new issue, so this has been known for many years. We have had people who have approached various tax rapporteurs, among others. Roskilde Festival, who would like to use biodegradable materials, i.e. mugs, which can be found in nature and then disappear by themselves. So this is not a new issue, so it is perhaps a little easy to say that we are looking at it in committee when it is a problem that has been known for several years. Maybe you should take that into account before you come up with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180314	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We move on to Mrs Kathrine Oltldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180325	Thank you. Smoking is a huge problem socio-economically, health policy, and fortunately there is broad agreement in the Folketing that the tax on cigarettes should be increased. I am very pleased and proud that precisely in the 2020 Finance Act we have secured a majority in order to gradually increase the tax, so a package of cigarettes from 1 January 2022 will cost DKK 60. In the Radical Left, we have long been hoping for such a tax increase, and we are very happy to start with it. We are also very pleased that the tax on cigars, ceruts, cigarillos, sloping, sniffing over other smoke-free tobaccos comes with us so that we avoid inappropriate price differences in the price of cigarettes and cigarillo products, which are similar to cigarettes. We have a golden opportunity right now to do something in this area, which will have a real effect on public health and will reduce the number of young smokers. We would very much like to support that. In this proposal we will also have a threefold increase in packaging taxes on paper, plastic and disposable services with the amendments that are on the way if it is adopted. A triple rate of taxation is estimated to reduce the consumption of carrier bags by almost 40% in total. and thus also reduce the amount of waste. It is a step in the right direction. However, I would also like to emphasise, as the debate here has also pointed out, that there are, of course, some details in this which are interesting from the perspective of a green transition. We have the criticism that some types of disposable plastics are biodegradable, but if you take a trip up the helicopter for a moment and look down a little over the overall picture, you will also see that biodegradable disposable services are not necessarily specially CO 2 Bamboo flown into the Third World. Various maize products also have a manufacturing process that emits large amounts of CO2 So it may be that these types of disposable services are more easily lost in nature, but all in all, the goal here is actually to avoid using as much disposable service as we do. That also says, as the rapporteur for the alternative points out, that this reservation is mentioned in the budget paper, but whether we can achieve a fully differentiated objective, I am not so sure. The way we understand our green conversion or pollution is, for example, through. to go for a walk in the woods and see that here it lies and floats with plastic or a can etc., but that is not the big plastic problem in nature. Plastics pollute in the oceans and pollute globally, but in Denmark it is not as big a problem as it is globally. By far the largest quantities of waste we produce in Denmark are brought to our waste facilities and are burned and shipped into our district heating systems. Having said that, there should also be no doubt that in the Radical Left we see this tax as a way of financing other green measures. So once we have created the 2020 Finance Act, which would like to put turbo on the green transition, it is, among other things. financed by levying a charge on disposable and plastic services. In this way, we really think it is very well connected with the green transition, without it necessarily having a direct effect. So we admit one hundred percent that this is about funding a behavior that we would like to have less of. Overall, we support the whole proposal and look forward to further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180724	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180727	With this bill, a sausage tray will triple the tax. But does it make sense for the rapporteur that if the sausage tray comes over 33 cm, it is a dish instead, and then there is no charge? I just noticed yesterday that the rapporteur said that it was also necessary to ensure that there was simpler legislation, and then you are included in an agreement that gives it here. I mean, if you have some burger wrapping, it's free of charge. And as I mentioned, the stick in the food and the straw is free of charge, but the drink web is a mess, and it must have a triple. Kathrine On Saturday I'm sorry, what is it? ) A drink web, i.e. a stick to stir around in a drink, must have a triple of the tax. But the straw, which goes into the same drink and which is made of plastic, is then free of charge. Does the rapporteur himself not think that it might be a bit sloppy to make legislation with such strange rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180812	I fully agree with the rapporteur; the rapporteur is the master of absurd tax examples. I would like to say quite clearly that it may well be that in this committee work it might actually make sense to look at these affiliate types of service that we might also be able to impose taxes. Well, straws are one of the most poisonous things to leave in nature at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180837	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180838	However, it does not actually become a little more absurd when you look at the fact that the European Union has created such a one-time plastic directive, that is, one-time service, which will enter into force in 2021, when plastic cutlery will become illegal. Subsequently, there is a tax on the biodegradable, which is now three times higher and which actually does not cause much damage to nature; then that is what is being taxed and what was actually the aim of it has become illegal. So does the rapporteur not agree that in 2021 there is in principle not really a great need for this tax because there are actually other ways of regulating it? It makes it even more crazier to triple now, because there is no need for it at all in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180919	As I have also mentioned before, we fully admit that this proposal primarily helps to finance other green measures, and that is why our focus is very much on the revenue generated by the charges here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180935	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205180937	It is ironic that we have just had this debate about the fact that we should simplify our tax system and make our taxes more logical, where the Radical Left supported that we should do so, and now we have to adopt a law that does the opposite, namely triples the tax on plastic bags, one-off services, etc., even if it makes no sense whatsoever in terms of pursuing a green policy. It only makes sense because you need some money in the box. But what we agreed on the other day was that instead of imposing charges on such arbitrary things, one should just increase the taxes that make sense. We could have raised VAT; it does not distort it very much. You could have put something more on the bottom tax; it doesn't do much either. We'd be against that, but it's better than what you do here. Why is the Radical Left involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181031	I do not entirely agree with the rapporteur that this is a matter of simplification. After all, this is about setting up a tax that already exists. Then we can talk about the fact that it is, of course, a question of looking at the affiliates that the DF rapporteur also spoke about, because this is perhaps just about simplification in this area. But, for us, this is primarily about funding other green measures, and the examples that the rapporteur mentioned will be something that the Radical Left will support, but which I do not see a majority in favour of in the Danish Parliament for the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181110	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181112	It would be better to go that way. It would be better to take a tax or tax that makes sense and then raise it to a different level, which might make even more sense because it has some effect on this consumption than to invent these things. The Radical Left could just say: we do not want to be involved in this. We know why the red majority is doing this. That's because you can tie the Danes a story on the sleeve that you do it for the sake of the environment, that's why you do it. But that's not true. And the Radical Left is helping to spread such falsehoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181157	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181158	In fact, I think I said quite precisely what the rapporteur has just said, but in a slightly different way: this proposal may have a more symbolic character in its content, but that it helps to finance other green measures, which we in the Radical Left actually believe in a green perspective, make super much more sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181218	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181220	I know that the Radical Left says that they are in favour of a green transition. And if you really want a green transition, then we have to do something about recycling and the circular economy in this country, with which we have so many challenges. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a problem with this flat charge on carrier bags and on service, which is the same for all types of plastic in terms of kilos, whether it is recycled plastic or new plastic? Does the rapporteur not see that there is a problem in this? Because when it is the same kilo, and when we know that it is heavier to make products from more environmentally friendly materials, we do make it actually more expensive to make products from recycled materials or from more environmentally friendly materials. Does the rapporteur not see a problem in the fact that we are obstructing more recycling and circular economy in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181317	On the part of the Radical Left, we see it as obstructing the production of more disposable services, whether made of bamboo or plastic. We would actually like to go where we reduce the total amount of this as far as possible. That is actually the main purpose of our support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181339	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181341	In Denmark we have a big problem with not reusing enough of our plastic. And the problem is that it often does not pay; that it costs as much to use recycled plastic raw material as to make new plastic, and sometimes it is actually even more expensive. And with this bill, we actually make it even less attractive to make recycled plastic materials, because it is often heavier. So with this tax proposal we are obstructing the circular economy and recycling, and that is why I am very interested in whether the Radical Left believes that it is more important to get revenue. Is it more important to get public spending than to do something good for the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181426	I do not really believe that we are preventing recycling. The way we recycle or circulate disposable services today is, in fact, primarily by burning it off and sending it out into our district heating system together with other residual waste. This will also be the case if one-off services become more expensive. It is still a type of plastic or a type of material that will not be recyclable, for example. as hard plastic, because it has been in contact with food, so that would require us to continue sending it out into our district heating system. And by doing so, we are also of the opinion that we would just like to limit this phenomenon overall and, by the way, work towards a change in behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181503	Thank you. There will then be no further comments to the rapporteur and we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181511	Thank you. With this bill, we follow the green direction to which the Danes have given their mandate and to which they expect us to give priority, and then we take children and young people's health seriously and raise tobacco prices. My colleague Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen has long advocated this agenda in relation to tobacco, both as part of a minority in the past, but now also as part of a majority, because although the old government wanted a smoke-free generation by 2030, there has been a very, very long way between the concrete proposals. However, I welcome the fact that, in order to raise tobacco prices, the majority now appears to be quite large. So SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181557	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181559	I would just like to hear from the SF's rapporteur whether one agrees that the increase in the price of cigarettes is incredibly inequitable, in the sense that it is often those who have the lowest incomes that smoke, and it can also typically be socially vulnerable, who have difficulty living without it, and who thus cannot stop like that and that is a huge problem about it here, and that it is perhaps not a mistake that the SF has not tried to take account of it. Because I share the view that young people should not smoke, but this is incredibly unequal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181630	I think that is a good question, because that is the dilemma we face. In other words, we are socialists and we are concerned with inequality, and that applies both to health inequality, but that also applies, of course, to inequality in the economy, and sometimes we have to make a balance, and we have done so here. We think it is important to combat inequality in health and we think it is important to ensure that fewer young people start smoking. Now, when you make an initiative that may have some economic inequality-creating consequences, that means that in future we should have even more focus on pursuing a policy in this country that ensures more equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181701	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181703	Then it is just that I do not understand why it has not been included in the budget negotiations. In order to avoid this inequality-creating effect, you could have raised the green check for example. pensioners. In other words, some measures could have been taken to compensate the groups who were exposed for this. We have done so historically in many areas. After all, the green cheque was established because it wanted to compensate for higher charges in various areas. So when one admits and rightly says that this has a huge effect on inequality, why haven't some things been brought in that de facto compensates, among other things. pensioners who do not have a large amount of money at their disposal? They may have been smoking for many years and may have difficulty stopping. Why, then, have some measures not been taken so that they could have been compensated?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181741	Surely we have fought for a great deal of action in the financial law negotiations, which must increase equality. This has been a crucial demand from the SF, and we have just been debating it here today with tax exemption in relation to employer-paid telephones, where we have tried to do what we can to ensure more equality. Generally speaking, it has been a huge desire for SF in the context of the Finance Act to ensure more equality. Here we then compromise slightly because of public health. But I can actually live with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181811	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181813	Well, that's interesting. So we must increase economic inequality with policy proposals if only it leads to less inequality in health. I can mention several examples of reforms of labour market policy that increase economic inequality in society, but in turn get more in work. The fact that they get to work makes a positive contribution to their health because they have 8 hours where they cannot sit at home drinking alcohol or smoking. So if we just say that we have to get people into work to make them less unhealthy, we can increase inequality through labour market reforms that get them into work, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181859	It has never been the case for the SF that no initiatives should be taken to increase inequality. Of course, there may be some forms of legislation that increase inequality, but where the overall effects of that legislation are positive, and that is why we support it anyway. So I do not think we are breaking any principles here in any way whatsoever. SF always fights against inequality, and that is also why we recognise the argument that comes from the opposition. This may be inequality, but we have to make up for that, and then we have to make sure that we pursue a policy that increases equality. I think that is quite principled.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205181940	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182000	After all, this bill relates to the financial law negotiations that have just been concluded, and it contains various elements of the common category of increasing taxes. After all, levies tend to hit socially at a disadvantage, as they are mostly flat and thus hit low incomes relatively harder. Therefore, it is Enhedslisten's starting point that taxes should have some positive effects, for example. on the environment, public health or the like, before we typically want to support them. If it is about securing money for welfare, we will, as a starting point, always go for progressive taxes on income and wealth. Fortunately, this bill contains some taxes that we can justify raising. The bill will increase the tax on carrier bags, and this will of course result in a revenue that we can use for other measures relating to the green conversion, but it will also result in less waste, less plastic consumption, which could also serve an environmental purpose. Then we will also argue that people with low incomes will be able to substitute relatively easily with another alternative at no high economic cost. The same increase also affects one-off services, and the argument on our part is the same: that it is of course nice to have a birthday in the park, that you should not drag porcelain and glass from the kitchen, but that one-off services are dirty in the public space, which is bad for the environment, and it fills in garbage containers. Therefore, it is also good here to increase the tax, and once again you can very easily substitute by using regular service. We do not think that there is merely symbolic content here. Such a change in taxation can, of course, help to bring about a change in culture, but of course it is also a matter of some tax increases which mean that we will have some money released, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. And, of course, the revenue that comes here must also be used in this context. Then there is the part concerning the increase in the tobacco tax. Here the Finance Act has come out in a different way from what has been proposed in the draft law at least as it was originally presented. Because the bill says that the government will raise the tax by DKK 5. in 2020 and a further 5 DKK. in 2021 and this will lead to a price increase of approx. 50 kroner. for a pack of cigarettes. However, analyses showed that with a price increase of DKK 10. There would be no change in behavior, that is to say, fewer smoking; the increase was too small. On the other hand, it would then be the most economically optimal price increase, i.e. where the state's income grew most. Further tax increases, on the other hand, would reduce revenue, because it will actually have a behavioural effect, compared to more people quitting smoking, and fewer will start. Therefore, we are also pleased in the Enhedslisten that in the 2020 Finance Act we have agreed an increase to DKK 55. in 2020 and 60 DKK. in 2022. It is possible that in the long term it will generate less revenue than what was originally presented here in the bill, but it will in turn change the behaviour, and this has thus been the most important thing for Enhedslisten. That is why we look forward to the legislative proposal being brought into line with the Finance Act, and that will also happen with the amendments that have been tabled. When that happens, the Enhedslisten will of course also vote for this bill, because it is part of the Finance Act, which we are actually very happy and proud of. It is the best financial law that has been concluded for a very, very many years. And in the green area, it is the greenest financial law this country has ever seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182406	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182408	After all, in the last parliamentary term, the Liberal Alliance tried to get a majority in the Folketing to support the idea that we should lower the top tax from 15%. 10%. When you heard Enhedslisten refer to the experiment, there was no doubt that it was simply a smash of the Danish welfare society • it was very, very terrible, because it would increase inequality. Now it turns out that Enhedslisten is now voting for increased cigarette taxes, which increase inequality at a level equivalent to lowering the top tax from 15 to 12%. Is that what we should have proposed? Instead of saying from 15 to 10 per cent. Should we have just proposed from 15 to 12%, and then it would have been quite okay and not have destroyed the welfare society, or what? What is the reason why Enhedslisten thinks it is a great idea to increase inequality in Danish society with increased tobacco taxes, which are equivalent to lowering top tax from 15 to 12%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182508	In this context, I think it is important to emphasise that we have concluded a financial law agreement that will increase equality in society, and it will do so, among other things. because we have some financing elements, like what we have discussed earlier today, about the fact that we now have to tax free telephone • a tax relief, which is a camouflaged top tax reduction, which was agreed before the elections and which we are fortunately now abolishing. So there is no doubt that, overall, the Finance Act increases equality in society. We can also see it by the fact that the increase in public consumption has an income-balancing effect compared with the fact that people with low incomes also have increased consumption opportunities, and this will also increase equality in society. We have also introduced measures which will enable the recipients of cash benefits to be more clearly identified if they have been in the cash assistance system for a long time, so that they can move on to the benefit that they should have been on from the start of the second action which will have an effect on equality. So, in relation to smoking, that is right, and it must be recognised that what we are adopting on smoking here in the context of the Finance Act, in isolation, will have an inequality-building effect here and now for a certain group of people. And if it were up to us, we would have liked it to have been followed up by, for example. That's what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned, namely the raising of the green cheque or other measures that could compensate for it. The Enhedslisten does not have 90 seats in this Parliament, so a Finance Act is also a compromise, but I would say that even without the measures that Enhedslisten would like to see further, in other words beyond the tax increase itself, we can also stand up to the goal of the proposal as it stands, because it will have a health-generating effect and cause fewer young people to smoke, which in the long term will also have a socially fair consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182659	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182701	So if you just relieved the top tax in such a finance bill as you've made here, with the same effect on inequality in society, it would be fine if it had been matched by all the other things you've done in this finance law. For that is the case with the tobacco tax, that is to say, it must increase inequality in society, corresponding to a reduction in top tax from 15 to 12%, but it is okay because it is with all other things. So the top tax must also be lightened along with all the other things, because it also has positive effects, by making people work more, and that is also a positive effect, and then there is more money for those who need money from the tax payment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182741	Thank you. It's late, but we don't use direct charges in here anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182747	I think it is obvious to everyone that lowering the top tax cannot be compared to this, among other things. Because we have to see, and I think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen agrees that lowering the top tax does not have the health-generating effect that an increase in the tax on cigarettes will have. Moreover, I think it is a funny argument that it should have such a health-creating effect if we lower the top tax, because it supposedly should get more people into work, that is to say, it is at least a statement which is also based on the fact that the assumptions contained in the Treasury calculator are solid, and it has to be said that we have repeatedly been shown that these are assumptions which are based on a very thin basis and which have no evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182829	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182831	I think there are many people who have over time been given the impression that Enhedslisten is opposed to increased inequality. That has certainly been said many times. I can, for example. quote Mrs Pernille Skipper from Berlingske on 14 June, where she says: "A government that increases inequality will not be in the mandates of the Enhedslisten. It's a very clear statement. And in Politiken on 5 October, Mrs Pernille Skipper repeats the message and says: "We are not voting for a financial law that increases inequality. ▪ Now the figures came today, and the Finance Act increases inequality. And on that occasion I have a question for the Enhedslisten: when are we going to the parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182915	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205182916	The Finance Act does not increase inequality. The Finance Act increases equality. I think sir... Rasmus Jarlov refers to the calculation of the Gini coefficient that has been read on the Ministry of Finance's website today. It is the case that with the measures contained in the Finance Act, if the increase in excise duties on cigarettes is taken into account, there will be an increase in inequality, as calculated by the Gini coefficient, which is a key objective when we calculate inequality, but which does not include everything either. In fact, we also had the discussion both at the opening debate and at the first reading of the Finance Act. For example, what is not included in that calculation is: the increase in public consumption, which also has an income-balancing effect. It's not in that calculation. There is the residence and gift tax where you now have to pay inheritance tax; if you are the heir to a family-owned company, you now have to pay the inheritance tax that everyone else pays. It's not in that calculation. Nor is the solution to be found for those who have been in the system for a very long time and who will now have a better chance of moving to the right level of benefit. The whole elimination of the possibility of making parents' purchases through the enterprise scheme is also not included in that calculation. You simply cannot calculate everything within the Gini coefficient. With this explanation, it is quite clear that this is a financial law, which in fact also increases equality even if you cannot measure it with the Gini coefficient, but it is because the Gini coefficient cannot measure everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183051	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183053	We understand, then, that when it comes to assessing the financial laws voted for by Enhedslisten, the Gini coefficient cannot be used for anything. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, if he will promise that he will not come and use the Gini coefficient another time as an expression of how economic inequality develops in Denmark, because that is what Enhedslisten always does. That's what Enhedslisten has been doing for years. After assessing bourgeois economic policy, it has been the Gini coefficient that has been repeatedly highlighted. Enhedslisten hypocrite on this point. You go out and pretend that you don't want to increase inequality, and you vote for a financial law that increases inequality, and you make bad excuses and excuses to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183135	We are going to use the Gini coefficient very much, because that is probably the most central figure in the inequality debate. But it is not hypocrisy to say things as they are and to say what we have always said, namely that the Gini coefficient does not cover everything. But can't calculate the Gini coefficient on all measures. You can do that, for example. Not in this Finance Act. It is quite obvious that the increase in public consumption is clearly creating equality. It is quite obvious that the roll-back of the estate and gift tax, so that heirs of family-owned companies now have to pay the same in housing and gift tax as all other people in this country, has a clear equality-building effect. However, this cannot be measured in the Gini coefficient, and that is why it is also a political assessment for us whether or not we should be included in the Finance Act, even if the Gini coefficient, when you consider the tax on cigarettes, shows the wrong thing from our point of view. But equality is being increased in the Finance Act. It's a really good finance bill. It's a socially fair financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183231	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183233	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has always said, historically speaking, at least in the last few years, that we would not be involved in measures that increased inequality, and the rapporteur also confirms that this raises cigarette prices in the draft law actually increases inequality quite considerably. Then it's just that I don't understand when Enhedslisten markets at the same time that you care about socially vulnerable people, that is to say that they need to be helped, and that the elderly should not be burdened with such actions as this... why you haven't gotten it into a finance law. I mean, you have a financial law that pays 125 million. kr. It's got nothing to do with this. Why has it not been fought through that the green cheque was raised, or some other measures that could help socially vulnerable people, those with low incomes or the elderly, who are actually bound to smoke, that is to say, who cannot stop because the price gets higher? Well, why didn't Enhedslisten get it through? Isn't the truth just that it hasn't been the focus, that is, that the focus has been on climate and all sorts of other things? That is fair enough, but then those with the lowest incomes have to pay because the climate is more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183331	I would like to say very clearly that we can fully measure the increase in cigarettes taxes that lies in this draft Finance Bill, even without the measures that Enhedslisten would have preferred to be part of this too, i.e.. a swelling of the green check, targeted smoking cessation courses for the socially vulnerable or some of the other things that we are in favour of and will continue to work for, that is to say, for which we have not stopped working, just because a financial law has been agreed. But we are fully in favour of what has been adopted here, because it has a clear health-enhancing effect, which will prevent more young people from starting to smoke, and this will also, in the long term, produce a socially just effect, that is, because we will have fewer smokers in the future, and that will also apply to those who are socially at risk; at least that is the idea behind this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183419	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183420	Thank you for your answer. I actually heard, I must say frankly, that one really just confirms that this has not been a focus point for the Enhedslisten. One has looked at climate and other things, and then one simply forgot to include in the recitals that there are some socially vulnerable who will be paying the bill for all the good gifts one would like to give out and some pensioners who do not have a high amount of money which will then have an increase that can fill a great deal in their economy. I mean, you just forgot about the various vulnerable groups. I think that is a pity, but I really regard it most of all as an admission that everything else has been focused on the budget law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183451	I can't confirm that. On the other hand, I can say that we have focused in the negotiations precisely on mitigating the social negative effects that will be on some groups by raising cigarette prices. The Enhedslisten does not have 90 mandates, and it is not all our policy that we have achieved. We would have liked to have had more in the Finance Act of this kind. There are also various initiatives which actually strengthen efforts towards socially disadvantaged groups; there are a number of initiatives. We would have liked to have had more, but I also have to say that the proposal itself, as it is here, can be supported because it will have a clear health-enhancing effect, and because overall the Finance Act is the best financial law for really, very many years, including a financial law that overall increases equality in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183539	Thank you, and then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183558	Thank you for the bill, which is, of course, about taxes on, among other things. tobacco and various other excise duties, including: on carry bags. Our starting point here is that we are quite positive about many of these charges because they have a good health and environmental profile. We are in favour of green taxes, but it is also crucial for the Conservative People's Party that it is first of all something that works and, secondly, that we do not increase the overall tax burden in Denmark. That is why we will in any case be tabling an amendment to the effect that the proceeds from these extra taxes will be used to reduce other taxes, and it will be essential for us to vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Although we are in favour of green taxes, we do not want to sit and raise a lot of taxes and then allow the Enhedslisten, Radicals, Alternatives and SF to spend money on, for example, relaxing the immigration policy or a lot of other expenses that we do not support. So I predict that, for that reason, we will eventually vote against the proposal, because I do not think that there will be a majority in favour of the amendment that we are going to table. However, I would like to say that we are in fact in favour of a number of the charges contained in this draft law. During the debate here, however, I have listened a great deal to the speeches that have been made, and I have also taken note today of a response from the Danish Nature Conservation Association, which is quite critical of the way in which plastic tax has been screwed up, and I would like to see that clarified more in the coming weeks before the proposal is finally adopted. Because, as I also said, it is quite essential for us to adopt something that works and not just encourage the use of other materials that are, in fact, less environmentally friendly than the materials on which we impose taxes. I am fully aware that it can be difficult to set up the tax system in such a theoretically perfect way, so that exactly the things that are most harmful to the environment are taxed, and nor will we always leave the perfect thing to be the enemy of the good in our environmental policy and our approach to green taxes and say no to some taxes that tax some materials because of such millimeter justice. Overall, it seems to me sensible to tax plastic because it is a burden on the environment to get it produced. With regard to carrier bags, it also seems reasonable that they cost something more, because then you will be more inclined to recycle them. And in relation to cigarette taxes, this is something we have also proposed ourselves, and we are certainly in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183909	Thank you. There are no comments. We move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205183919	Thank you for the floor. In the alternative, of course, we think it is fine to double the tax on plastic carrier bags and paper and to increase the tax on disposable services. In general, it is a matter of using the least possible disposable products. However, in the negotiations we would like to focus on the biodegradable disposable service and see if we can get a good solution there so that it is not hit twice hard because it is precisely a weight-based charge, and one-off service of e.g.. palm leaves are heavier than disposable plastic service. As far as cigarettes are concerned, we are very pleased that by 2020 we will have the price up to 55 DKK. and in 2022 at 60 DKK. In the ideal world we would have liked to see the price even higher, so there were even more who were prevented from starting smoking, and more people who would stop smoking. But this is a good solution, and it is a very good thing that we have brought all tobacco products with us, because it turns out that there are very many young people who use other tobacco products, for example. chewing tobacco. First of all, we are interested in preventing young people from starting to smoke, and there is the price deterring us from seeing that from other countries. And the reason why it is so important that young people do not start smoking is that there are studies that show that young people starting smoking are on average shortening their life expectancy by 10 years. We would also have liked to see cigarette prices raised in one hurry, but are happy that it will be DKK 15. in the first move in 2020 and that then there is only 5 DKK. We must not get used to the price increases, but that leads us to put an end to them. We are generally in favour of this proposal and support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184123	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184126	That is because the alternative rapporteur is now saying, and I also think I have heard other red rapporteurs say, that it is a little unfortunate about the increase in the one-off service tax that has been produced to be biodegradable and so on, but that is what we are taking in the negotiations, you say. That is what the Alternative's rapporteur said, and I think others have said so. But here's the thing: you've got the financial law negotiations you've gone out of, and that's why you're gonna vote for this bill. You've accepted that you're doing it this way because it gives it and the proceeds that you need for your Finance Act. If you were to lower the tax increase on one-off services that are biodegradable, there would not be as much money as you have negotiated for you to use in your Finance Act. So don't tell the citizens that there's something to do here. You've already accepted this, even though you're now standing on the platform saying it's pretty crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184223	So there is no point in using direct indictment 15 times in a small speech, so please avoid it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184229	Thank you. I stick to what is stated in our draft budget, and it is precisely that we need to look at how we deal with biodegradable plastics. And a financial bill is made up of a lot of things, and everything can't be down in the petites. So there's work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184248	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184250	Yes, but you have agreed to have a certain amount of revenue, a certain number of kroner in the Treasury as a result of you triple the tax on one-off services. And if you do not want to triple it... I would ask the rapporteur to think! ) And if the parties
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184326	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184327	Now there are some big figures we have all the way through on the Finance Act, and there is a presumption of what the various things can give of plus and minus. In this way there will always be a margin. And this might mean something, and then there's something else that's going to mean something else. It's the end number that's the interesting thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184349	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184351	I am just thinking of how it might be that the Alternative rapporteur has not just made sure that in principle there were two rates or a certification scheme. This could be something that was so compostable, something that was degradable and which, of course, is not a problem for the environment. Perhaps we could then make it tax-free, or perhaps, for the sake of revenue, we could say it was half-rate. Why haven't you thought a little more creatively? If you agree that it is a bad idea to triple the tax on a sausage tray made from palm leaves, which is not a problem, why has it not been ensured that a certification scheme or a lower rate is made?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184428	Now, as the rapporteur also says, it is a complex matter where many parameters can be counted, back and forth. And if I could just pick it out of the Finance Act, I would have liked to have worked it through and then put it back in. But that is not the reality when you are negotiating a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184445	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184447	Well, that's the reality when you make political agreements. You're just going into the depths of things like that. A solution is found that hopefully makes sense in reality. But this is how I actually understand the rapporteur's point of view and I would like to change it. This should be taken into account in legislation. It's not a new problem. That's a well-known issue. This has been known for years. So should it not have been taken into account and made either a certification system or a lower rate? Is it not a form of lawlessness that it has not been taken into account from the outset?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184518	I don't want to call it lawless, but I'll admit that in the ideal world this would be completely in place now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184526	Thank you, and then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205184536	Thank you. We are dealing with a bill to raise taxes on cigarettes, shopping bags and on one-off services. The red parties in the Folketing have agreed to do so in the context of the Finance Act negotiations and the money will be spent on some of the headings where the red parties seem to be spending too little money in Denmark. The Liberal Alliance will vote against the law. We are opposed to all tax increases in that law. Let us start with the tobacco tax. We feel that we like taxes which cover the costs to society of a particular activity. In other words, we are in favour of a tax on cigarettes, and the tax must cover the costs of people smoking when they come to health care and must be treated for the diseases caused by their smoking. We think that's really fine. We also think that car taxes are quite fine if they stick to covering the costs to society by driving on the roads, polluting and accidents, etc. But there's something else going on here. You judge what kind of living is in order and which is not in order. There are thousands of ways to live that are unhealthy. And we all grow some of these things. Some run too much, compared to what is healthy running is healthy, but running too much is not healthy. Some drink too much alcohol. Others eat too much gum. Some eat too many chips. Some stick their hands too deep in the fries tray. We all have these vices that are unhealthy. But then you have just identified the smokers to be the scapegoat for your health policy. And we don't understand that. Smokers have to pay the cost of treating them in health care through the taxes on cigarettes. But we should not identify smoking as a separate problem in relation to every other unhealthy behavior. People have a right to smoke if they want to. I recommend my children not to make them certain. Because it's unhealthy. But I also recommend that they be careful not to eat too many chips, because it is also unhealthy. And we don't have a chip fee. We abolished the fat tax a few years ago, both because it was difficult to administer, but also because it was, in any case, wrong that just fat should be separated as something that should have a tax on. Why, for example? No sugar? Then there is the triple charge on carrier bags and on one-off service. That tax increase has been launched with arguments that we have plastic pollution in the world. But it is not carrier bags from Fact or from Rema or from Føtex that float around the oceans down by India and Africa. It's not. I've been down there looking. They pour all the garbage from their trucks directly into the sea in a beautiful mixture of urine and faeces and plastic and food waste and all sorts of stuff they pour directly into the sea. And then the plastic flushes up on the beaches further down, and then they have their problems. And that's because they have a low level of prosperity. They simply cannot afford to sort their garbage, they cannot afford to burn it off. We have to do something about that. But we are not doing anything about that by having a charge on plastic bags in Denmark. And again, it turns out here that it is not really about doing something for the environment. For example, for the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods, the tax on the value of the goods and the tax on the value of the goods. One-off service is completely independent of what kind of one-off service it is: whether it is a one-off service that puts a heavy burden on the environment or a one-off service that puts a little strain on the environment, whether it is one-off service that breaks down itself in nature, so that it never becomes a problem with plastic pollution in nature. After all, we have our plastic in place in Denmark. People put the plastic in their garbage containers, and it is taken to the incineration, where it is recycled or burned off. This is just about getting money in the Treasury, and then you try to convince the Danes that it is because you want to do something for the environment. It is wrong, it is untrue, and it is shameful that you are not honest about things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185037	Thank you. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185040	Thank you. Normally, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is not very concerned about inequality. Yet in this debate he has spent a lot of time asking how we on the left can be involved in something like this, when it has some inequality-building effects. Isn't it a little silly to spend so much time pointing that out? In other words, it is very common for politics to have dilemmas and for things to be compensated for on the one hand and on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185112	Yes, you can say that, but it is just because it is not very clear when the left is criticising our policy for increasing inequality. The inequality that we sometimes think is necessary because it must be worthwhile to work is therefore necessary to get more people into work, because it is not good for a society that too many people are not in employment. So the realization that there are dilemmas could be a little more prominent also by the SF, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185150	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185151	I would like to acknowledge that, and I think that we should do what we can in the debate on the future here in the Folketing to ensure that we make up for things on the one hand and see the nuances. Because I think it is a problem if we start to equate hypocrisy with weighing up arguments. That's what I experienced before. I saw a rapporteur trying to make me appear hypocritical in terms of implementing something that increases inequality. But in reality, I am very concerned about combating inequality. I just think there are arguments for this, both on the one hand and on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185228	It is very good that now on the left you have suddenly gained a more nuanced view of inequality, and that you now think, because you are helping to increase inequality, that it is all more nuanced. However, I do not think it is possible to imagine the rest of us that we are giving you some of the medicines that you have given us when we have had other considerations to take into account, which will also be your agendas, both the agendas of the rapporteur and the left, for the benefit of creating a society that is rich and prosperous, so there is money to take off to finance a public sector and some transfer income, which is the world's most expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185307	Thank you, and then there are no more comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185320	Thank you for that, President, thank you very much for the debate here, and thank you for it, in fact, on a long stretch of very broad support for the proposal here. As everyone knows, Denmark has got a new government, and together the government and the political majority behind the latest financial agreement have wanted to strengthen welfare, strengthen young people's opportunities for education, strengthen help for mentally vulnerable and sick people and, above all, restore confidence in our tax administration, but also strengthen opportunities for an ambitious green transition to Denmark and, above all, to ensure the opportunities for Danish business to grow and prosper even more. It's a good finance bill that's come here. It is a financial law which, on long stretches, helps to ensure that Denmark moves in exactly this direction. We, the Social Democrats and the government, have made it very clear before the elections that we wanted to raise tobacco prices. Too many people die as a result of smoking, and too many young people start smoking. That is why we are now raising the price of tobacco, and we are actually genuinely very fond of it and maybe we can get back to it that there is very broad support here in the Folketing for exactly that and hence for the government's line here. At the same time, the government, together with the parties behind the financial agreement, has clearly stated that we must take action against plastic pollution, that we must reduce the enormous quantities of waste, and that is why we are now raising taxes on carrier bags and one-off services. There is no doubt that plastic pollution and waste quantities must be reduced, and this is what this proposal contributes to. If you want to take responsibility for the climate and the environment, these are areas to be addressed. As stated in the bill, the government's original proposal was to double the packaging tax on carrier bags and one-off services in order to reduce waste volumes. With the Finance Act agreement, this problem has been further highlighted, and it has subsequently been agreed to triple the tax rates. This corresponds to the price of a carry bag rising by approx. 1 kr., and the one-time service will increase by approx. 30% A threefold increase is estimated to further reduce the consumption of carrier bags and one-off services so that, as has also been said, waste amounts are reduced by approximately 6,000 tonnes per year! To be quite honest, I actually think that this is a very good step towards a greener Denmark which, of course, benefits both the environment and the general green transition. The government also played out before the Finance Act negotiations with a desire for a significant tobacco tax increase as part of the government's overall action plan to address the fact that children and young people start smoking at all. The Action Plan contains a large number of initiatives that overall reduce the smoking of Danes. One of the initiatives is an increase in tobacco taxes. As the bill suggests, the government is proposing to increase the tobacco tax corresponding to an average price increase of DKK 10. for a package of 20 cigarettes. An additional tax increase corresponding to an average price increase of DKK 19 has subsequently been agreed under the Finance Act. for a package of cigarettes, which means that in future a package of cigarettes will have an average price of DKK 60. Similar tax increases are proposed for tobacco used for home-rolled cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, cigars and smoke-free tobacco, in order to maintain the price difference between the various tobacco products and also to prevent the Danes from simply buying tobacco products other than cigarettes. With this proposal, beyond a strong desire to improve public health, there is also a significant price signal to which I hope that young people in particular will respond. There is no doubt that smoking is extremely addictive and that it is difficult to quit once you have started, so the best thing is that we can completely prevent young people from even starting to smoke. However, as I said, I would like to thank you for today's debate. In particular, I would like to thank you for the fact that there seems to be a very broad consensus in this Parliament that we should raise the tax on cigarettes. I welcome the receipt of this part of the proposal, and I hope that we will be able to arrange it in committee so that we can ensure that the broad consensus also crystallises when we finally vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185826	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First it's Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185829	Thank you. I am very concerned about the part of the bill which concerns the charges on carrier bags and one-off services, because the increase in these charges is not doing anything to strengthen recycling and the circular economy. The problem with a tripling of the tax is that the tax is calculated in the same way per year. kg, i.e. by weight, and more environmentally friendly materials are heavier, thus increasing the unit price for the more environmentally friendly products. And in the worst case scenario, it is not worth producing more environmentally friendly and using recycled plastics rather than new plastics. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can do anything to make this tax more green, i.e. whether he can put it together in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185921	This is why
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185934	Marie Bjerre, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205185936	In other words, I would like to go into more detail in the committee procedure, what that solution really does to reduce the quantities of waste, because the comments on the legislative proposal state that, in relation to reducing the quantities, the quantities of plastic will be decreasing, already because we are imposing a ban on the free delivery of carrier bags. But what I am really concerned about is that with this increase in taxes there is no incentive to produce sustainable products, because sustainable products are becoming relatively more expensive than new products made from pure new plastics because they measure it per. kg. So that means that a more environmentally friendly disposable plate will be more expensive than a new plastic plate. Is there anything you can do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190020	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190021	The government would very much like to take part in this, including with the Left. I have listened and read that the Left has also made statements about the need for plastic action plans and other things, and we would very much like to take part in this debate. I think you need to see two tracks. We need to bring down the amount of garbage. That's one thing. Secondly, we would very much like, as we have written in the agreement, and as the alternative rapporteur also mentioned, to look at what else can be done to differentiate taxes which can force production towards more sustainable production. We will be discussing this, not least when we are going to have the big discussion about the green transformation of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190105	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190107	I would like to ask the tax minister about the problem that lies in our risk of encouraging less recyclable plastics to be used because it typically weighs more than ordinary plastics. In other words, if we impose a tax on plastics, based on how much it weighs, non-recyclable plastics will be taxed less than recyclable plastics, and this risks working against the purpose of the bill. I know that it is very difficult to have to go in and differentiate between different types of plastic, and we must be very careful that we do not end up where we have very often ended up, namely where we have an extremely complicated tax law, because we have some demarcation problems, and then we are trying to get such a completely millimetre-right solution, and then it ends up being insanely detailed, and there will be different taxes on 100 different types of plastic. So I am aware that there are some dilemmas in it and that it is very difficult to hit the perfect one. But I would like to push the question back to the Treasury and see if there is anything you can do about it without it getting complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190217	We would very much like to take part in a long-term discussion on this, too, and I think that no matter how you turn around and talk about the fact that we need to tackle the climate challenge better, this is among some of the issues we are going to discuss. One of the things we can do about right now is this. And that is why I am very pleased that the Conservative People's Party almost gives total support to this bill. I am well aware that there is also a revenue issue and a financing issue, but I am very pleased about it because I think it confirms me that there is a will in the Folketing to go this way. There is no doubt that this is a great challenge, but here we can do something immediately. And what we then do afterwards, we are very keen to discuss, because I think that whatever discussion we are going to have when we are going to achieve these very ambitious climate objectives, which in the Folketing there is very broad consensus on achieving.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190310	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190311	Well, thank you. And the tax minister should have no doubt that we are not here trying to find hair in the soup, to obstruct it or to be polemical, but that we are genuinely concerned that we have an incentive structure that really encourages the use of more sustainable materials. And I think there is something here that we need to discuss just now. For example, it could be that you have to have a tax per person. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all It will be so relatively simple, and then the plastic bags produced from recyclable plastic will not be taxed harder than traditional plastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190350	This is not an unknown concept for government parties. I think so too, sir. Rasmus Jarlov knows it's not. And that, as Mr. Nor is Rasmus Jarlov asking for a differentiation of the tax an unknown problematic discussion for government parties. And that's why a job has already been started where you're sitting and looking at this. And that's one of the things we're going to follow up on. It is very complicated, but I think that the points you can take should be taken for the sake of the environment. And the ones you can take here are that you can reduce waste volumes quite significantly with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190425	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190427	But it is easy enough for a minister to answer the two previous questions that one is willing to look at things. But why haven't things been looked at? That was to be done before the tax was tripled. Does the Minister not agree that this action provides a negative incentive to create circular economy, if for example: the biodegradable products are taxed harder than those made of plastics? But more importantly: If you have a plastic bag made of recycled plastic, it is heavier than the new, cheap plastic bag. Ergo, it gets a higher tax. Does the Minister not agree that this measure provides a negative incentive to use recycled plastic bags?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190509	We also have a purpose here that is about waste, and that is one of what this proposal also addresses. I think that's the good thing about it. When we discuss environmental and climate policy in this Chamber too, in recent months there has been a historic consensus that we must achieve very ambitious objectives, and that is why this is an important instrument. Reduction of waste amounts is an important instrument, and this is what this proposal contributes to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190538	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190539	Yes, but that's why the Minister could say whether this gives a negative incentive to use recycled plastics. If you look at the amount of waste you throw out, you'll see that it's not the plastic bags, but the contents of the plastic bags that make up most of it. In your household at home, you typically have it in garbage bags. Is it the plastic bag that is the problem, or is it the large amount of garbage you put into the plastic bag? So it is quite a thin argument if it is simply the plastic bag that is the problem for the waste. I guess that's all we're throwing out. There's a problem. But can the Minister confirm that this gives a negative incentive to use recycled plastic bags?
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190610	This helps to alleviate one of the major challenges we face when we talk about our climate, namely the waste heaps. We're gonna raise the tax on a plastic bag with the equivalent of $1, and that's gonna help give these effects. So it is an exercise that we can do, and then it is true that there is also the second discussion. I do not think that these two things are in conflict with each other. These are discussions that every government has had in recent years. Now we're trying to take the first step. This greatly reduces the amount of waste, and then we await the exercise to find an opportunity to differentiate taxes as well. We will look at that afterwards, and it is also in the Financial Law Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190655	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191205190718	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 6 December 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer you to the agenda set out on the Parliament's website.
