ParlaMint-DK_20191129100006	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Susanne Zimmer (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 49 (proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the setting-up of vulnerable councils in all municipalities). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100030	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100055	The debate is open. Minister for Children and Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100105	Thank you. I am now discovering that the alternative rapporteur is back in the Folketing. Welcome back again! First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this debate about better indoor climate in schools. After all, it has been a debate that has rolled over all the years I have been in politics and active in the student and student movement, and I think that this is an agenda that is very close to our hearts. It's also an agenda where you might as well be honest and say that it's really hard to make really big moves in this area at once, simply because it costs the tip of a jet fighter. Sometimes we might as well say things as they are. I remember the times we discussed sewage systems in Denmark. It is not so typical in the field of education, but there it is a little the same. There we are also up to a very large amount of billions as soon as we even mention the word sewers. Actually, it's the same with this. This is a trade, for example. about what the Danish People's Party travels here: that if you go in and look at e.g. Having to have ventilation facilities everywhere, yes, we are over in an investment area where the amounts get really, really large, and I am sure that sometimes this kind of a slightly muddled debate gets because you don't call a spade a spade and say that it's simply a matter of how much things cost. I think we should keep moving forward. It is the case with those things where there is a need for very large investment to make sure that it is a pot being kept to a boil, and that is why I really think there is an independent reason to thank you for taking it up. I think, in fact, that the Danish People's Party, when it tabled the motion for a resolution, knows that we, as a government, cannot support it simply because the amount to be set aside would have to be large and because we have some other priorities in relation to this year's financial law than this. So I actually think the Danish People's Party has known that. However, when I think it is important for us to have the debate, it is simply because I think that the only way to get there at some point, to improve the educational environment is to keep on going and to keep on taking the debate with each other and to keep on sticking to the fact that we have to move it forward. For example, it has. I have to try to dig into that toolbox with what we can do in this area, but it must be taken into account that we should not take it into the hands of the state, so that it is suddenly us who have to stand with that very big bill, because right now we have some other priorities, and we have presented them in our Finance Act. But I'd like to help drive it forward. One of the things that can be done is to tackle those who are facing it today, namely the municipalities, and have them invited around the table and have a talk about how we move out there. In other words, what do we really have to do if we are to go from where we are today and get to what is state of the art elsewhere, either in Denmark or in Norway and Sweden, with which we often compare ourselves, and which one might say may be something longer than we are in this area. So I would like to say from this that I would like to take this initiative so that we start the discussions with the KL on how we can move forward so that we can get something done about the indoor climate. The municipalities have shown that in some areas a great deal has been done both by indoor climates, but also by the working environment, that is to say the educational environment. There has often been this discussion about toilets, which was very disgusting. All other things being equal, it is an essential part of the children's working environment, and if they do not actually even go to the bathroom because it is simply too disgusting, then of course it has a negative impact on their working environment. There, various types of initiatives have been taken around the municipalities.Schools have also done so, where you have come a great deal far in order to make the toilets nicer and more well maintained and get the students involved in making sure that it is okay. Yes, so it is just to say that I would like to sign off on the fact that the debate is being raised, and I would also like to help us try to see whether we can go further together with the municipalities than where we are today. When I say this with the municipalities, it is of course because it is the case today that, in terms of legislation, the municipalities have an obligation to ensure that the educational environment is in order. If we did what is in this motion for a resolution, we would take responsibility in here and the bill for it would also be in here. That might be relevant enough. A good learning environment also means a great deal to learning. The heavy end, moreover, turns down here, because if you already have difficulty learning and sitting in an environment that is not okay, then it does not get any better, you can say. So there are a lot of good reasons for looking at the indoor climate and finding solutions to the problems that are in the individual schools. Now we have talked about it with the money, which is why I think I can say that it is not just to make a bad excuse for why the state does not accept responsibility for it. In fact, I very much like the idea that it is the municipalities that are responsible. So, having said these introductory remarks, I also think it is important to say that when it comes to something as local as the indoor climate, it is a very good idea that it is also at the local administrative level. So even if I had the money to do, I would be concerned about making too much legislation, because I would be in doubt whether the schools that were in the worst state were taken first, and I would be in doubt whether the problems in the schools were also addressed first, which the pupils and teachers see as the greatest problems. So I really like the fact that this kind of problem is also being decided out there. I do not really think there is much more to say about this at first, anything other than I will of course also involve both committees and the other parties of the Danish Parliament, so that we are informed of what I am discussing with the National Association of Municipalities in this context and how we can move forward with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100713	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100717	Thank you, and thank you for your speech, and thank you for your commitment to do something. However, as the Minister also says, we have been talking about this for the last 30 years, and the latest studies indicate that this is actually going the wrong way. The minister says it costs a jet fighter. Yes, it costs about 2 kroner. per child per child, School day. Is that the price of a jet hunter? We spend, depending on the municipality, somewhere between 50,000 DKK. and DKK 90,000. per child per child, years. That would be 500 kroner. per child to do something about this. We had the other day the discussion that the children are not actually getting as much better at reading and arithmetic as we would like, but by ensuring a good indoor climate you actually win 1 year, you win 10%, so over a primary school time you actually get 1 year extra school time on this investment. That is why I do not understand why the Minister is not going to say that this is simply a matter for us. One thing is that the task lies out there, but one could demand that one could go out and look at the indoor climate and say that it should be okay and that the plants that are should also work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100825	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100827	After all, it is all a matter of priorities, and one of the other agendas that the Danish People's Party has also set, and which I also think is very relevant, is the one that is about digitisation, that is to say, that it may be that you have started to learn as much as you can by having your head in the screen instead of in all sorts of other areas. If we are to do something about it, it also costs a great deal of money. And I'd say 2 kroner. per child per child, Today at all primary school students, it's half to a whole billion kroner a year if we had to do something just initially about this one health and safety problem. In addition to that, there are many other things that create a good educational environment, so it is a question of economy and a question of priorities. Yes, I think we should be in line with that, and I am always very interested in things where we can also make some investment perspectives where it is meaningful to the students because they simply learn more on the backs of the things we do. So everything's good about it. But I would also like to say that what we are facing right now is that we have children where there are simply not enough adults around them in nurseries and kindergartens. I think we have some very big inclusion challenges in primary school and all sorts of other things, and that is why it ends up being a question of what we do first of those things, and there we have pointed to the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100937	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129100938	Of course it is always a priority and this task should be solved in the municipalities, of course it does. But what we could do from in here, for example, was... to ensure that the Danish Centre for the Education Environment was given the opportunity to do this supervision. The municipalities should solve this task.I think we agree on this - but when they haven't done it, they shouldn't really have extra money to do it if we just put someone in control. We have the Labour Inspectorate that controls the teacher, but all the children in the class do not have anyone controlling the indoor climate for, so we could not agree to say that we should have some out to ensure that the indoor climate is actually okay, and then the task of solving it could be out in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101016	In fact, I believe that one of the reasons why this has never been done, and I have really discussed this in Parliament many times, is precisely that there is already control because of the teachers and the Labour Inspectorate. In other words, we are back to the priority issue. And from here, just a promise that I would like to participate in discussing it, and I will not rule out any of it yet, but I think we should bring the municipalities around the table and find out how we can move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101040	I do not see any request for further brief comments, so we thank the Minister. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101053	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. I shall come back to why this is one of the things that may actually also help to move some things. It goes without saying that it may not, but it is at least the case today that I very much agree with what the Minister of Education has just said. I cannot, of course, add much substance, but I would like to say that when we are discussing this subject by the Social Democrats, it is of course with recognition that the indoor climate is extremely important for learning, for the educational environment and, incidentally, also for the teachers who work out there and all the things that have been mentioned. We need, I think, to discuss with each other how we can support that we get the right development on track. Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned that there are areas where it has actually gone back, and that is not good enough, and that is why we have to discuss how we can push and what we can do in here to support it. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister gives an undertaking to enter into that dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities and put pressure on them, but also to clarify what we can actually do. It is true that if you had to look at mechanical ventilation, it would have been a requirement in the building regulations, but no longer than until 1995. I think it's about 10%. of the schools, which are considered as being built afterwards, so it is potentially a very large group of schools that would be required, for example. if you made a requirement for mechanical ventilation. This does not mean that all these schools will not have to be renovated and improved over the next few years, and that we should not do anything about it, because it is of course important. I also welcome the fact that very different organisations have entered into it. There are, of course, some of the craft trades that enter into it, because they also know that there are some jobs in it, but there are also Danish school students who have thrown themselves into this debate. Apart from being right that they are entitled to a good educational environment, I think that this also shows that our young schoolchildren actually care about their everyday life. And I think we owe them the seriousness that we are also looking back at what we could actually do. Looking at some of our neighbouring countries, for example. Norway and Sweden, it is true that the last time a similar proposal was made, the Danish Centre for the Education Environment made a report on what the differences really are. The report pointed not so much to legislative differences, but pointed out more that there was a difference of attention and that it was the matter of how high it is placed on the agenda that meant something so how much pressure is out there. The minister mentioned the case of the dirty toilets. After all, there is no doubt that the public agenda-setting debate that took place helped to ensure that we actually cleaned up some schools. I think we owe it to each other to do a great deal to raise this debate to a level so that we actually put pressure on the municipalities. Having said that, it is also a question of principle for us: that is to say, this must be dictated centrally from, or is it one of the areas in which we actually believe that there is some value in the decision being taken closer to the citizens and closer to the schools involved. That is why it is clear that when we know that resources are scarce and when we know that there are many things in the primary school that need to be done better, there is also a point of reason in allowing the local municipality to assess where the shoe is pressing the most now, rather than in three or four areas in here defining something, and it is the other eight areas that have to pay the price because we have made some very square rules. So I would very much like to discuss how we can put pressure on each other and how we can help and exchange experience and make sure that they are better at learning from each other, and you could also say how to make long-term planning to ensure that there is actually a progression in this. That would be beneficial, but I do not think that we should shift responsibility for the task into Christiansborg, both for the sake of the economy, but also because decisions are taken well locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101516	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101533	Good intentions are good, and they have probably been expressed about every year in the last 30 years, when this issue has been discussed here. And that is why I could be concerned that the fact that it is being discussed and brought up is actually enough to put pressure on the municipalities. And it can be said that the resolution is actually about saying to the municipalities: you must have a plan. And it is about saying that the ventilation systems that are there are supposed to work, and it is about saying: should we not send someone out who can say that this indoor climate is simply not good enough? In other words, just as we have the Labour Inspectorate, we have the Centre for the Education Environment, which, to some extent, has some competence, but which should also have it in this area, so that we can actually go in and secure it, in other words put pressure on it, which the rapporteur is also talking about, so that the municipalities actually carry out the task. I therefore agree that they are responsible for this task and must be pressured to carry it out. So how do we do it? And here these could be some tools where you say: we actually have some controls. We say there's some of the stuff that needs to work. After all, the municipalities should not demand more money for this, that is to say their facilities should work and that schools should actually have a decent indoor climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101640	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101642	Thank you. There are many different elements. First of all, with regard to the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, I would like to say that I am actually a little unsure exactly what the Danish People's Party is referring to when they talk about supervisory authorities here. 'Cause they have to, so I'm not sure what you're thinking they're gonna be extended to. So are we in the finish line? And is the situation in the schools okay? No, it's obviously not. The question is whether it is a power that is lacking or whether it is a plan for how it is actually going to happen. And when we are afraid to say here that we are now making an action plan, it is because we simply think it would be inappropriate to move the task, funding and responsibility in here rather than leave it with the municipalities. But yes, it would be very sensible if the municipalities had a plan for the speed at which they could improve the educational environment and how.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101742	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101743	We might be able to discuss how to ensure that the individual municipality has a plan for this, and we might also discuss how to ensure that the Centre for the Education Environment actually acquires a competence for • if the indoor climate is too bad in the class • to say to the municipality: this is something you have to do about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101807	As the Minister also said, we do not rule out anything in advance, and we are really looking forward to the discussion on what sort of handles we can tackle here. What we warn against is moving the task, funding and responsibility to Christiansborg. But we would like to discuss it, and that is why the Minister also gives an undertaking that there will be a discussion with the KL. Of course, it's to ensure that we get a momentum in this area. Because I agree with DF and the questioner that we cannot do nothing and, by the way, just be indifferent to the fact that the educational environment is not good enough. We also need to respect the fact that there are a great many things that municipalities need to improve in schools right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101842	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129101858	Thank you for that, President. Also from here thanks to DF for raising this important and real case. The climate is on the agenda • outdoor climate, cooperation climate and, of course, indoor climate, for which DF raises a flag here. After all, a good indoor climate is crucial for how a good school day and working day are experienced by 500,000 pupils and 50,000 teachers and educators who stay in our schools daily. A good indoor climate also means better concentration and learning and some of the things we have talked about here are really crucial to how we learn. So when the Factory Inspectorate can check out we can see when we read down the case that 25%. of their verification visits in 2018 just pointed out that there were challenges; when another study in 2017 shows that 90 per cent. of 245 classrooms studied have increased the concentration of CO2 responsibilities, as both the Minister and a former rapporteur have talked about, are outside the municipalities, and they are the ones who have to carry out the whole task here. We in the Left recognise that there is a challenge, and so I am also in favour of having to hold a debate on it here in committee, with a view to perhaps producing a report in which the government instructs the municipalities and the KL to shoulder this responsibility. Perhaps, at the same moment in the committee procedure, various interest groups could be called up which could help to point out how we could do this better. So, despite the good intentions of the DF, in the present form of the proposal, we cannot vote in favour of it, but we will vote in favour of it becoming a report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102050	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102052	Thank you. And thank you for the commitment that we can continue working on it. But I would also like to hear about something in this context. After all, the proposal concerns an action plan, and what I hear the rapporteur say is that we want to help put pressure on the municipalities to have a plan: KL must have a plan, the municipalities must have a plan for this. Will it also help to ensure that the plants that are out there are in order, i.e. a system of supervision in relation to the ventilation systems, etc.? In other words, the rapporteur himself says that the Factory Inspectorate has carried out a study in which they say that a great many times when they come out, the working environment is not in order, the indoor climate is not in order. Can we also agree that the Danish Centre for the Education Environment must have the skills they need to go out on behalf of the children to ensure that the indoor climate in the classes is in order?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102146	I think that what DF is pointing out here will be one of the things that should also be looked at in committee. My background is, of course, that I come as a municipal politician and have also been mayor in the past, and one of the things for which I have dealt with both the one government and the other government was precisely that here from the platform and here from the Danish Parliament they imposed on the municipalities all kinds of rules and all sorts of things which made the work they did in the municipalities difficult. So I would also advise, like the previous speakers, that we, as a Parliament, simply force them to spend money on something that we from in here decide. It must be the municipality itself that gives priority to those tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102231	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102233	I myself am now also in a municipal council and, in principle, I also agree that we in the municipalities would like to be allowed to make our own priorities and to do our own job. The problem with this very thing, I just think, is that today's status is that the municipalities have actually got worse over the last few years in order to solve this task. The conditions out there have gotten worse, so there's no sign that the municipalities of themselves are gonna figure out how to lift this and solve this. So if we're not gonna force them, how are we gonna make that happen? Well, I mean, we can't be familiar with the kids to do nothing. So if you do not want to force them, how will the Left help to ensure that the municipalities actually carry out this task, which I think we agree they have?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102316	In connection with the work of the committee, we can try to call together various organizations of interest which can help us to tell the municipalities and the KL that they must have carried out this task. And that is not the only task I think the Minister said that there was another problem as well, and I could point to the third, which is about 45 minutes of movement for children every day, which is something, the schools and municipalities are also not good enough to lift. So there are a number of tasks in relation to how to have a better indoor climate and also a better climate in general at the primary schools. And I would like to discuss that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102352	Then it's Mette Thiesen. Mette Thiesen, I'm gonna drop out. ) Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102416	Thank you. I really need to get used to getting up so fast. In fact, I intend to start by commending the Danish People's Party and then criticize them afterwards. It is good that Dansk Folkeparti raises this question, so we will focus on a very central theme for our children in folk schools. After all, the Labour Inspectorate can be obtained by teachers, school staff, not by pupils or their parents. You can think about that a little bit. It was such a kind of praise. So to the criticism: I am very sorry that the Danish People's Party has not used its position as the party that has been sitting on the Finance Act since 2002 until now, except for the three and a half years Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister. It is really, really a pity that the Danish People's Party did not come out of the holes a little faster, but that right now, when they are not sitting on the Finance Act, they have come out of them. No more criticism. Then I am actually very concerned to emphasise, as others have also said, that it is the municipalities that are school owners. And I am really, really disappointed if it is really true that the indoor climate has not progressed, because this is not the first time we have been discussing this issue. I do not believe that this is a state task. I believe that this is a municipal task and that it is a municipal responsibility. It is a municipal priority and the municipalities must negotiate every year with the government in office about their economic conditions at all times. We all know that. And there I just think that there is a wrong priority, if that is the case, but we can ask the Minister afterwards that it has just got worse and worse with the indoor climate. That is why I would like to make responsibility to the municipalities, and I would also like to say to School and Parents, who are the parents' boards of all the schools, and it is therefore the parents of the children who attend the schools in question that they also have a job in raising this theme, not once, but every time they have a parent board meeting, if nothing happens at a school. In fact, I've been told that you can buy a $100 appliance like this. and set up, and then it measures how the indoor climate is. I don't know if that's true, but we can check that out. I told the chairman of the school and the parents that they can do that. I'd like to help you find the 100 kroner. To him, if he needs it. It's not like it's a manor house. So let's try to get more teams on what it really looks like school for school. And then you could imagine making a Danish map. We have introduced this in the Committee on Social Affairs, where we gather information every year about cases in the Ankestyrelsen, which are lost by municipalities, and then we create a Danish map showing what it looks like for each municipality. At the same time, this means that we have instructed the municipalities to deal with the Danish map for each municipality every year in June at a public council meeting, an open municipal council meeting. It is also a way to focus on how things develop in a municipality. So I think we should do something that really focuses on this year after year. I am very pleased that the Minister has responded positively and would like to help us get something going or that we are talking about what the challenges really are and how we can see that they can be resolved in some appropriate way. However, I think that I would like to maintain that the municipalities are school owners and that the parents' boards sit as parents' representatives on the school board. These are very central positions, and I also think that we should involve them in solving these problems, which are in fact on their table and not on Christiansborg's table. Then I had to breathe my bile faster than I thought. The Danish Centre for the Education Environment should in fact be strengthened. As far as I understand, and I do not know if that is true, but I am thereby questioning that, there are only two employees at the Danish Centre for the Education Environment. Some people are shaking their heads, so I don't think that's right. But it is certainly a theme that I would like to take up, i.e. what opportunities the Danish Centre for the Education Environment has to exercise some sort of supervision and go further than we can as members of parliament in here. After all, we have that centre because it needs to be used for something, and it is about the educational environment. It is therefore obvious that they should also be included in our own deliberations. Maybe we should ask them to come visit. The minister could invite the relevant rapporteurs and the Danish Centre for the Education Environment to a meeting, and then we could talk about what is really of the terms. How could we really see that they could also be properly involved? With all this, I would like to say that we in the Radical Left would like to contribute to a report. We think it is a good idea to do this together, because we can follow it together. I am sure that the Danish School Students Association will be very eager to contribute as well. In any case, I understand that from their chairman. So it's gonna end well eventually.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102936	We hope so. But now we just have to deal with one question first, and it's from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129102942	I'm sure it's gonna end well, too. Mrs Marianne Jelved says it is very early to get on the platform. I think we should try to do something about that in the next elections, and I would be very happy to help with that. Rosen, I'm gonna go with him, and I'm gonna go with the criticism, too. I think we have tried, but we have not succeeded in doing so, I would like to say that in relation to getting something done about this for the last 15-20 years, when we have also been part of the system. But it does not mean that we should not try to do something about it together now. I am also actually hearing Mrs Marianne Jelved's support for us to make a report that puts pressure on us so that something will happen. I very much agree that if we can involve the Danish Centre for the Education Environment somewhat more and ensure that they can actually carry out their task, then I think it will be a very good thing. So it is not because I actually have so many questions for the rapporteur, other than that I would like to confirm that we are, of course, going in and making a good report which puts the pressure that, when we look a few years ahead, we also solve these challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103048	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103049	Thank you. That is quite correctly understood or heard by the rapporteur, because we believe that it is such a central issue that all parties must stand together to lift it here. It is not a matter for a single party, and it has not been. We've always agreed on that, but we just haven't gotten anything in the system so far, that is, how we get on with this. I think that could be a task that we could take on. That is also how I hear the Minister's reply, namely that the Minister is prepared to help clarify matters and find out how we can move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103123	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103135	Thank you. Right now, school day is in progress at all our schools around the country. We are at the end of November and it is very soon December. It's gotten cold outside, and I actually think that by far most students think it's kind of nice to be inside. What is not nice, however, is to think that a large part of the students are in classrooms with CO2 The Danish Labour Inspectorate gave 80 orders in 2017 because of poor indoor climate in the public schools. We talk a lot about children and young people's mental well-being, that more children and young people are not well, and how the school can support their better health. We also talk a lot about the physical well-being of children, for example. how we can get more movement into school day. What we do not talk much about, however, is how the indoor climate in classrooms affects the well-being of students both physically and psychologically. We know from several studies that poor indoor climate can mean that the students thrive less. We know that this can affect their ability to concentrate and we know that it provides a poor learning environment. In fact, we also know that sickness absenteeism is increasing. Students, teachers and educators have several sick days if they go to a school with a poor indoor climate. These are facts that we simply cannot and cannot ignore. It's very serious. Therefore, we in the SF are also happy to see that the Danish People's Party focuses on the subject, and SF fully shares Dansk Folkeparti's intention with the proposal. Because we need to improve the indoor climate in our schools. In the SF we have some comments, questions and additions to the motion for a resolution which we will continue to work on. The resolution states, for example, that the government must be required to draw up an action plan to ensure that the indoor climate in all schools is improved. Here we miss the fact that all links are thought in. We believe that it is the municipalities which, in cooperation with the schools, must draw up the action plans and that we must think in terms of the whole. The proposal also states that statutory supervision of the schools' ventilation systems and ducts must be established. We agree that ventilation and mechanical ventilation are good, but it cannot stand alone. That is why we do not believe that supervision should focus only on ventilation systems and ducts. Organisational considerations, behaviour and educational practices are at least as important if we are to really improve the indoor climate in schools. That's how we can think together. When I read the motion for a resolution, I also wondered why the Education Environment Act was not mentioned in the motion for a resolution at all. Only the teachers' health and safety laws are mentioned. I think it is quite important to see that we in Denmark actually already have legislation in this area. For example, it says: the law states that pupils have the right to a good educational environment, to a minimum educational environmental assessment every three years, and that pupils have the right to choose student representatives to be involved in issues of importance to the educational environment. In the light of what we know about the indoor climate in schools, we must also consider whether the law on the environment for education is actually being observed. In addition to the absence of the Education Environment Act in the resolution, I also lack more concrete descriptions of initiatives to improve the indoor climate. For example, the proposal states that the Danish Centre for the Education Environment should have extended the possibility of supervising schools, but there is no mention of how supervision should be extended. We believe that more staff should be employed for supervision in each region. In addition, I believe that there is an important part that is absent from the resolution, namely funding. How does DF envisage funding initiatives to improve the indoor climate in schools? In the SF we have previously proposed to create a pool of 200 million. kr. Annually for 4 years, the municipalities can apply to borrow money to improve the indoor climate in the public schools. In this way, the municipalities will be able to get started more quickly. The SF is also fighting for this in the financial law negotiations right now. The SF supports the intentions of the motion for a resolution, but we believe that the proposal should continue to be negotiated with the Minister or among the parties in the committee so that together we can have concrete ways of ensuring that the indoor climate in our schools is improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103552	There is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103554	Thank you very much for your speech. Thank you very much for the commitment, as I hear it, and for the great understanding of the challenges that we are also trying to address with this resolution. I would say that when we point out in the motion for a resolution to give the Danish Centre for the Education Environment an additional opportunity to exercise this control, it is actually precisely to do what the rapporteur is calling for, namely to ensure that it can actually be implemented. When we say that we would like to have the ventilation ducts and ventilation systems checked, it is about many plants out there that do not work. It is, in fact, a very low-practical proposal in terms of doing something, and we therefore agree that an action plan has the best function if it is local. If we adjusted and said that this action plan should actually be drawn up in the municipality in cooperation with the schools, that the ventilation facilities should of course work and I imagine that we are quite agreeable on this and that we should ensure that the rules relating to the educational environment are also enforced, would we really agree to make a report that takes these things with us and, in general, actually adopts the resolution that we have before us?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103704	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103705	As I said, we would like to continue to discuss this with the Minister or in committee. In relation to the action plans here, it can be said that in educational environmental legislation there is already that if schools do not live up to those things and have a poor educational environmental assessment, they must draw up a plan of action on how to proceed locally in schools. We can easily help to look at how we are making action plans, but we would like to do so together and in the municipalities, and therefore we would like to spend a little more time negotiating it either in committee or with the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103740	Here you go, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103742	I would just like to say right to the end that there is a requirement. It is quite right that there should be plans and that they should sort this out. But there is something that goes wrong when we see out there that it is actually going the wrong way, i.e. that the bad indoor climate is not going to be a smaller, but is going to be a bigger problem and that it has certainly been over the last few years. That is why I hope that we can also agree that we have to have some sort of sanction option and to have someone who can go out to the municipalities and say that they actually have to comply with the law. They shouldn't have to have any more money for that. It may be that we need to spend a little more money to get someone to go out and tell them, but they should not have more money to do what they already have a duty to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103819	The municipalities can't afford to make these improvements right now. It is both about the general economy of the municipalities, about the construction ceiling and about all sorts of other things. That's why we've proposed this pool where you can borrow some money so we can get this development going in order to ensure better indoor climates in schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103837	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129103845	It is very good that with this proposal we will again focus on the indoor climate of schools. As several people have said, this is not exactly a new case we are dealing with here. The Danish People's Party has justly tabled resolutions to resolve these problems. We ourselves have tabled motions for resolutions on behalf of the Enhedslisten. And we have to say that, despite consultation, many questions and so on. has not really moved in the right direction. I think it would be wrong to cut all the municipalities together, and I have not heard anyone do that either. I would actually like to say that I have been to several conferences on this matter and heard contributions from municipalities, which actually do this job very well, and where there are also many creative ways of working on this. But having said that, we are faced with a national problem, that is quite obvious. The authors themselves refer to studies, yes, several studies, among others. The one made by DTU a few years ago, which shows that 91%. of all classrooms examined actually does not comply with the limit value of 1.000 ppm, i.e. 91 per cent. does not comply with the limit values. If you look at the monitoring report from the DCUM from last year, you will see that it is half of the studied primary schools which exceed the recommended limit values, and what is perhaps remarkable when you look down in the report is that every other actually answers that they do not know whether you exceed the limit value, that is to say you do not know exactly what is going on in the individual school, and that shows that it is quite wrong. I therefore think it has to be said that the documentation is clear and unambiguous: we have to act on it. And I also believe that, as Parliament, we need to do something. I must admit what the Minister and others have said, namely that this is a very important task. It cannot be resolved in one morning. I guess we have to admit that. On the other hand, it requires a systematic approach, which means that I think we need to make decisions in the Folketing in order to get the system going. A national action plan will certainly have to be adopted, but I think that it is primarily a question of committing the municipalities, so that every municipality will actually have an action plan for this. I would also like to say that I believe that we need to tighten up the guidelines for monitoring and maintaining the facilities, and you can say that this sounds like a banality, but when you look at what the indoor climate looks like in the schools in Sweden, you have to say that the fact that they have a different supervision and a different obligation, yes, maybe not another obligation, but at least another practice in relation to their supervision makes the indoor climate far, far better when you go to the Swedish schools. There have been questions here, including by Mr. Jens Joel, in terms of what the legislation really is like in this area, and I may not think that part is crystal clear. I hear from some that there is a significant difference in legislation. It is quite true that, in their recent writing on this matter, the DCUM says that there is no legislation at all. I think I hear something else from other experts, but it was at least one of the things that I think we could dive closer into. Because when they can in Sweden, we can also in this country. So I think we should dive into that. I think it's really important that we strengthen the DCUM. Mrs Marianne Jelved said that there are probably a little more than just assumed in the DCUM. However, I think we need to say that there is a need to strengthen the DCUM so that, with the authority they actually have today in the field of education environment law, they are able to carry out it more effectively and will be able to exercise more frequent and more thorough supervision in schools. All in all, we are very positive about this proposal. We think this is a very good proposal. We think it would be wise for us to try to land this with a joint report. You can listen to what other rapporteurs have said. This makes it quite obvious that a hope of adopting it will be turned off. I also think we have to recognise that there is so much money in this that we need to create a good interaction with the minister and the government, because if we are to realise the good intentions, it requires an economy. So I hope that we will be able to arrive at a good report together, in which we will also move it forward and create some commitments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104359	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104412	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling this resolution to ensure a better indoor climate in schools. It is very good to focus on indoor climate and to have a political ambition to strengthen the indoor climate, because it creates worse conditions for learning, professionalism and well-being if the indoor climate is poor, and this can ultimately lead to a decline in professionalism. This week we have seen the results of the national tests, which show that students have become worse at both reading and mathematics. Of course, those results are worrying. And the results may be reinforced by a poor indoor climate. That is why we are tending to support the motion for a resolution. It is difficult to disagree with the need to draw up a plan of action. That makes sense. We would like an action plan to be presented and discussed in the public school circle. However, I would also like to point out that it is ultimately the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure a good indoor climate in schools. They must continue to have that task. The other two points on statutory supervision of ventilation systems in schools and stronger supervision would like to ask a little more about during the committee procedure, among other things. to become more keen on what the consequence will be of it. However, as I said, we are tending to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104608	This proposal focuses on the indoor climate of schools, and it is, to put it mildly, necessary. I think it has been very clear from many of the speakers here today that something needs to be done about this. I believe that this motion for a resolution, like some of the very good resolutions we have in this Chamber, is pushing a matter forward on the agenda so that something will actually happen faster in this area than would otherwise have been the case. I think that is why the proposal is so commended. I also believe that this proposal needs to be resolved at local level. Instead of paying the bill here from the Folketing, I think it would be better to use some of the mechanisms that some of the rapporteurs here from the platform have mentioned to get the municipalities to take this seriously and get out of the pipe. When we look at the concrete measures in the motion for a resolution, I think that drawing up an action plan to ensure that the indoor climate in all schools improves would be a very good thing to do together with the KL. In my view, and the Minister's estimates may cost 0.5 to 1 billion. kr. to establish statutory supervision of the schools' ventilation systems and ducts, and if we need 0.5-1 billion. kr. Such a rainy Friday morning here in the Folketing, we really, really need to be precise. There I think we should go deeper into looking at what it is that is needed, because it is true that air and oxygen are incredibly, incredibly important, perhaps some of the most important at all, but it is also about light, sound, noise, temperature. There are several things that I think we should look at at at the same time. That is why I am pleased that my colleagues are all setting out to have this looked through properly, given that this resolution has been tabled. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a good idea to give the Danish Centre for the Education Environment more powers, more muscles. We are not going to support the proposal here directly, but we would like to help write a report that will ensure that this proposal gives the momentum that it will be able to in order to solve these problems with the indoor climate in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104832	There is a brief comment on Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104833	Thank you. And thank you for the commitment to help ensure that something happens, because that is the overall agenda for the Danish People's Party in this: that we get pushed to now, so that we don't talk and talk, as we've all been doing for so many years. When the rapporteur talks about an action plan, I agree that an action plan that is more local is probably more relevant, so we would like to adjust to that. Well, the plan from in here could be that now you have to make a local plan. We weren't so ambitious, I don't think it costs between 0.5 and 1 billion. kr. to do inspections on the plants. What we are pointing to here is that there are a lot of places where there are ventilation systems that do not work as they should, and where we really just ask quite awkwardly whether we should send someone out and make sure that they are actually going to work. So it's not about a wild amount. I agree with the second point: if we are to create new ventilation systems everywhere, it costs a great deal. But could it not be supported that we should ensure that those who are there work? And it is true that it is not just the air, but also light, sound and everything else. But if we send out the Danish Centre for the Education Environment and give them increased powers, they will also look at the whole, i.e. when they are there anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104945	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129104949	I actually agree with much of what the rapporteur says, but if we send someone to check the installations and they do not work, then it will be necessary to have them repaired. So it is in connection with what I think we should just find out how to find the money and put it into a larger context, because there will be other costs as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105009	I would just like to mention briefly that several of us, I think, have met people from Bornholm several times, where this has been done to ensure the indoor climate, and what has been spent on resources over there is about something like DKK 2.5. per child per child, School day, 500 kroner. a year, compared to spending somewhere between 50,000 and 90,000 kroner. a year on a single school child. So that it should be all astronomical amounts, I find it hard to see. And is it not reasonable that we should at least ensure that the plants work? One should also have an interest in that out there, but we could put pressure on that to happen if one actually found out that they didn't work. I think sometimes you just don't know it out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105049	Yeah, that's fair. The plan needs to be combined with KL, I'd say. And if it is such a small amount of money, then it would have been fine if DF had somehow assigned some kind of financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105104	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105112	Thank you. I just have to address the fact that there are more people who have mentioned this, that the indoor climate in several of the schools in the country is getting worse, and I can actually explain this because a lot of the primary schools in the municipalities are from the 1960s and 1970s, and they are getting older and older every year, and therefore it is quite natural that it is also getting worse. I come directly from primary school, which is why I am very pleased that we are discussing this here today. This resolution addresses a really, very important issue: the very fact that many of the country's primary schools are suffering from very poor indoor climates. I myself have been in the Danish primary school for over 10 years, and I can confirm that it is very bad in many places. Children must, of course, have proper working conditions, just as we adults must have. It is not okay to have to sit in rooms with elevated CO2 but the means here we cannot agree to, because we do not believe that this is solved by dragging a lot into Christiansborg and knowing that the government should make an action plan. Instead, we believe that we should look at legislation in this area, because in the Law on Working Conditions the one dealing with adults who go to work has sanctions. In the case of the children, there is no one. In other words, we can see that there is a poor indoor climate in a school, for example, and we can also point out that the requirements must be complied with, but we cannot sanction them if they are not met. That's why we see a lot of these old schools, like... have some poor ventilation systems. And I should say, it's not very fun to be in a classroom like that for a whole day. This is a real problem, and that is why we are really open to looking at the legislation in this area. Mrs Marianne Jelved mentioned here that the school board could of course challenge the state of the building, but the problem is that for the moment investments in the building stock must be made by the municipality and major renovations must be adopted in the municipal budget, and thus the decisions are far from those who actually use the schools every day. We believe, of course, that this is another excellent, good argument for putting free schools and primary schools on an equal footing and making all schools self-serving, so that the maintenance and quality of the building stock is carried out by those who use the school, namely the board and the management, and that it is not with the municipal council, because the schools must again be the people's and not the politicians'. We recognise this very, very important issue, but we do not believe that the solution proposed by the Danish People's Party is the right one, and that is why we are voting against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105438	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105440	Thanks for the speech. I note that, on the one hand, New Citizens recognise all these problems with the indoor climate and all the challenges it presents, but, at the same time, I hear that on the other hand they will not be able to solve it and that we must put the tasks to the individual school that they must have more money out there and then they must be able to solve it. I also hear that we are talking about adjusting the legislation. And this legislation is acting, among other things. about giving the Danish Centre for the Education Environment the competences to say that this is not all right; that is to say to ensure that the Danish Centre for the Education Environment in the same way as the Danish Labour Inspectorate can impose, has resources and the opportunity to tell the municipalities in the first place it is the schools, but it is of course also the municipalities that something needs to be done. And then I think that it is also legislation to say that those ventilation systems, although many of them are from the 1960s and 1970s, could still work if they were otherwise checked that they worked. So would it not also be part of the legislation to say that there must, of course, be a control of the facilities that exist to ensure that they also work to the benefit of the indoor climate of the schools we have out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105550	Thank you. Yes, we really want to act on it, but we want to act on it in a proper way. For what is being proposed here is that you do a lot of things in here at Christiansborg; it is being so translated, you can imagine, in a lot of pools and everything else that will go to a lot of projects out in the municipalities that they can seek, and then you can improve the environment around. This is quite simple, and, as the questioner says, it is not really about the need for more supervision. That is something we should like to do for our sake, but it is about the need to be able to act on those supervision, and that is just not permitted by the legislation of the school children at this time. It is there for adults in the Working Environment Act, but it is not there for children. So if you really have to act on this, it is the specific legislation that we have to go in and make some sanctions in, so that when you get out and find out that there are poor ventilation systems or that there is otherwise a bad indoor climate, for example. If we do not do so, then we can impose too high temperatures and everything else, and then we can sanction it if it is not complied with. Therefore, it is essentially a question of getting the problems solved right and from the bottom up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105704	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105705	I think we can all agree on the right solution from the bottom up. I don't know exactly where all those pools came from, because there are no pools in our proposal. In other words, it is more about putting some concrete measures in motion. And it is also a great deal about ^ and I hear that the rapporteur really agrees to ensure that the Danish Centre for the Education Environment has precisely the muscles to do what needs to be done and that something needs to be done out there. So how will New Citizens ensure that we solve the problems at the individual school?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105737	I would like to repeat: this is about the fact that, when you supervise, no matter how many muscles, as the rapporteur calls it, we give the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, it is no use if you cannot sanction when it is not respected. So basically, instead of making a lot of fine words in some reports and so on, it is all about the fact that we are talking about a lot of fine words. And having a lot of good intentions is looking at what we can really do to solve this problem. And we can really do this by introducing some sanctions into the legislation and by the way, releasing schools and allowing them to be self-serving. That would solve it in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105817	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129105826	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate on the indoor climate of schools. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is an important debate. If the indoor climate is not good, the school works badly, and this applies both to the way it works for teachers and to the way it works for pupils. On the other hand, however, we must also be cautious as a parliament, because the first question is whether we are also right about the division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality, in other words between the state and the municipal responsibilities. Then there is also a discussion about creating unnecessary bureaucracy with the measures we are proposing. I am impressed by the fact that researchers at Aarhus University have established that from 1990 until today the scope of state rules has tripled. After all, it cannot continue for another 30 years with an additional three-fold increase, which will simply create some severe management problems. And it's bad enough as it is. That is why I do not believe that the motion for a resolution is entirely pure. In any case, I am impressed by the fact that a former mayor, the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Sten Knuth, says that there is already strong state interference in areas that actually belong to the municipalities. These are the sort of statements from experienced people that should be taken seriously. As Mr. Jens Joel, the Socialist rapporteur, has already pointed out that the rules are not significantly different in Denmark than they are in the rest of Scandinavia. It is the enforcement of the rules that is at stake, and not, in fact, the rules themselves. It is better enforcement that we need. So we thank you for a relevant debate. Of course, we can also see ourselves writing a sensible report, but we cannot support the proposal itself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110050	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110052	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur recognises the issue, as I heard, of the indoor climate in schools and then says that it is about enforcement. It can be said that large parts of the proposal are, of course, about ensuring that the Danish Centre for the Education Environment actually has an opportunity to enforce the rules in this area. So if I hear right, the Liberal Alliance is ready to support that part of it. With regard to the part that is about ensuring that the plants out there work, I think: can we not also support the idea that it is sensible to push it? So, we can see that developments out there are actually going the wrong way, and if you do not want to intervene and do something, whether it is a little bit bureaucratic, how else can we ensure that we actually improve the indoor climate to the benefit of all the children who attend our primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110152	I am actually quite serious when I say that the Folketing has historically not had the necessary care to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy. It's a very, very big problem. That is why I believe more in some of the opportunities it has at any time in office to speak dunder through its system. This is always done kindly with a shepherd's letter, but it is, after all, a dull speech in such a shepherd's letter and one might hope that the Minister would send such a one to enforce the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110230	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110232	Well, that's a pious wish, and it may be that we can persuade the Minister to send a shepherd's letter to this area. I just have an experience that we've had this discussion in here so many times. I can hardly remember back to a time when we haven't had it up to turn around at some point, typically right after the summer break, when the schools are starting to start, and when it all overflows and everyone thinks that something must be done about it too and then nothing happens. So does the Liberal Alliance have a thought about how we're gonna make sure something happens out there, so we're actually doing something good for these kids?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110309	After all, the Folketing must never neglect its responsibility to bring up in the municipalities. This is always necessary, and we must, of course, do the same here, and we must, of course, call on the government to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110341	Thank you very much for a very good debate. This is an important area, and I too, like Mrs Marianne Jelved, can be a pity why, regardless of who has been in power, we have not done anything about it here now, and that, in fact, is echoed in all the rapporteur's speeches, the last 20 to 30 years have been an increasing problem. That's really, really too bad. However, my conclusion to that is that, when we agree that this is a pity, it may also be that we need to get our act together and ensure that something happens. The minister said something about it costing the tip of a jet fighter. I don't know exactly what the tip of a jet hunter costs, but it's a couple of dollars a year. child per child, day too much to ensure that you actually get the learning that is equivalent to going an entire year extra to school during primary school hours? We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. However, on the basis of the discussion and everything that has been said, I also have the clear support of a large majority in this House to make a strong report that this must be done in one way or another. It is important that action plans are made out there. In the proposal, we have written that the government and the Folketing should draw up an action plan. What we have to plan for is how to ensure that plans are made out there. I am listening a lot to the Minister's commitment to engage in a dialogue with KL and the municipalities that way round and say to them: Well there are actually some things here that you have to live up to; there is something you have to do about; In And we have to back it up by getting a closer discussion on how we can support the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, so that they actually get the opportunity to work with, that you in the schools meet the demands already made today so that they have the necessary opportunities to intervene and so that they have the necessary opportunities to give instructions. How we can do that, I hope we can have a discussion with the Minister so that we can find the wise solution. It is not because we want to put pools off in here, but I hope that the SF, which proposes it in the context of the financial law negotiations, will succeed in getting some funds off. I heard last Tuesday in the Question Time when we had the discussion that we would not be so much better at Danish and mathematics as we really would like the Prime Minister to say that in the Finance Law negotiations there were plans to allocate funds to the primary school. Then you can say that there are many problems out there in primary school, but this is at least one of them where you can say that on the backside of solving a problem we are actually creating some extra learning. And that's what we need. If for an investment of 500 kroner. per Years per year child • compared to the fact that, depending on the municipality, we spend somewhere between 50,000 and 90,000 kroner. per Years per year children can ensure what corresponds to one year's extra learning over the 9-10 years you go to primary school, then perhaps it was there that we should consider investing the funds. That is why I am very much looking forward to the discussions that we will, of course, be taking the initiative on at the back of this so that we can produce a report that will ensure that something happens. For what is crucial is that, in the interests of the children who go out in our primary schools, we actually ensure that we reverse this development, which has unfortunately gone the wrong way in recent years, and make it go the right way. That is all we can be familiar with the children in the schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110733	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for short remarks. Sorry, maybe there was. Mrs. Marianne Jelved, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110744	I got out of the box. I just feel the urge to make a comment about the number of students and 2 kroner. a day. There are 700,000 schoolchildren, that is, over 600,000 people over 700,000. 2 kroner. per So school students are quite a lot of money. So just two times 700.005 is 1.5 billion. kr. It sounds easy with the 2 kr., but it's not that it's still a big challenge. Does the rapporteur not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110831	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110833	I fully agree that it is not nothing. If we were to find that money from in here, it's not like that. I know it's about to draw 1.5 billion. kr. out of the current Finance Act probably isn't something SF gets in this area. And neither does the Radical Left, I think. In Assens Municipality we are absolutely at the bottom. There we spend about 50,000 kroner. year. But compared to that, it's good to spend 500 kroner. of the 50,000 kroner. to ensure that the indoor climate is good. If, at the same time, we can look forward to actually teaching our children something more, so that we will have less need to use the new gush afterwards and use all the other support measures, which we together also set up, of course, to ensure that the children get through well, I think that if we can tackle some of those problems, there is something healthy prevention in doing this for a still relatively small amount of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110938	Marianne Jelved, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129110939	I am, in fact, very pleased with the answer, because it can be included in our report that it is an opportunity for action. And there I hear the rapporteur say that it is the municipalities that have to carry out this task in one sense or another, and I think that is also important to emphasise this when the municipalities are municipal owners. I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111000	The rapporteur. Or school owners, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111000-2	Yes, the municipalities own the municipalities, and the municipalities also own the schools. And we fully agree that the task should be solved in the municipalities. What is just the problem is that we also agree that they have not lifted it well enough. There are some municipalities that have picked up the ball and are actually in the process. There are some municipalities that want to do something, but which are then affected by a plant ceiling, and other municipalities are affected by the fact that they have so little money. And then we can talk about a compensatory reform, which is also part of the whole talk about what the municipalities have of opportunities. But to answer the question, I would say: yes, we agree that the task belongs in the municipalities and should be solved in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111038	Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111053	The debate is open. Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111115	Thank you for the floor. After all, the bill we are discussing here today is intended to correct a legal error back from 2012. According to the Social Services Act, § 42, a municipal council is required to provide help to cover lost earnings to parents who provide for a child with significant and lasting reduced physical or mental capacity or suffering. The economic handshake provides a safety net under the family in a difficult situation. On the basis of the agreement on the payment of the rate pool in 2012, concluded on 18 November 2011 between the then government and the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, the performance ceiling in Section 42 of the Service Act was amended with effect from 1 July 2012. However, at the same time as this amendment, a necessary consequence change should have been made to the corresponding regulatory provision in Section 182 of the Act. According to the political agreement, the regulation should have been made for the first time on 1 January 2013. Since 1 July 2012, the performance ceiling has been established and subsequently regulated in accordance with the 2012 Rate Pool Agreement. However, the lack of an impact assessment of the law has resulted in the ceiling on benefits since the amendment of the law in 2012 being set too low in relation to the wording of the Services Act. That is the legal error that today's draft law will bring into line with the 2012 rate pool agreement. In concrete terms, this means that the amount of the benefit ceiling projected to 2020 level of DKK 31.946. is registered in Section 42 of the Service Act and, at the same time, we ensure the ongoing up-regulation by amending section 182 of the Act so that the service is regulated for the first time on 1 January 2021. In the Social Democratic Party we are pleased that the error is now being corrected and we are confident that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior undertakes to send a letter of orientation to the municipalities so that they can meet their obligation to resume relevant cases. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111324	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on in the rapporteur's line to Stén Knuth, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111341	Thank you. I'll be brief. The Left can support the proposal here, which corrects an error that should have been corrected as far back as 2012 or 2013. We are also satisfied that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior and the KL will organise a process that will enable us to find out what kind of citizens are entitled to this post-payment. So, with these comments, we will just be allowed to say again that the Left supports the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111407	Thank you. We shall now move on to the rapporteur's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111424	Thank you. Paragraph 42 requires the municipal council to provide assistance to cover the loss of earnings to persons who provide at home for a child under the age of 18 with significant and lasting impairment of physical or mental capacity or intrusive chronic or long-term illness. The allowance is subject to the condition that the child is cared for at home and that it is most appropriate for the mother or the danger to be taken care of. The wage pool parties agreed with the 2012 rate pool agreement to improve conditions for families who need to care for a child with disabilities or serious illness at home by raising the ceiling for lost earnings from a monthly level of DKK 20,241. for 27,500 kroner. However, the regulation of the benefit has not been followed, and it is therefore proposed that § 182 (2) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v)) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi)) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) Specifically, this is proposed to be implemented by the amount of the allowance ceiling of DKK 27,500. projected to 2020 level of DKK 31,936. Paragraph 42 (a) shall be inserted. 3 in the Service Act. And section 182 of the Act. the third paragraph is amended so that the new projected amount on the performance ceiling is adjusted for the first time on 1 January 2021; The proposal will bring the benefit ceiling for lost earnings and their adjustment into line with the original intention of the 2012 Rate Pool Agreement. The performance ceiling in the Services Act is consistently aligned with the 2012 Rate Pool Agreement with this bill. In the Danish People's Party, we support this proposal, and if there are families that have money to do with lack of consequences in the Service Act, then we expect the Minister to follow it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111610	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111627	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. Bill L 69 brings the benefit ceiling into line with the 2012 rate pool agreement. It is SF's approach that families who have a child with a disability should have the opportunity to receive support, whether in the case of home training, previous pick-up from sfo or extensive home care. That is also why SF was included in the rate pool agreement on lost earnings back in 2012, and it is therefore of course sad that we did not have the right regulation at that time. SF votes for the bill so that families who receive lost earnings can be properly compensated. We want us in committee to work further on the uncertainties surrounding post-regulation. I would like to stress that we would like to see some very clear guidelines drawn up on how municipalities are to deal with the proposal, so that there are no questions of doubt or inequality in terms of coinage in the municipalities. Finally, I should like to welcome from the Radical Left and from the Enhedslisten and say that they are also voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111750	Thank you. This means that the next rapporteur we have here is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111810	I can also say, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, that we support the draft law, where the ceiling on benefits here for section 42 paras. 3 of the Services Act is brought into line with the 2012 Rate Pool Agreement so that the agreed performance ceiling from 2012 forward to 2020 level is correctly set out in the Services Act so that families who are entitled to lost earnings can be properly compensated for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111842	Thank you. The next rapporteur I see is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111902	It was quick. When you receive lost earnings in order to care for a disabled person or a really sick child at home, it is really good that you have that opportunity, and this is really just a recovery, you might say, a correction of a mistake that was made, so of course New Citizens also support this bill. I myself have come across a lot of parents in recent years who have benefited greatly from this being able to be more at home with a really sick child or a disabled child, so of course we fully support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111942	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111951	The Liberal Alliance can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129111954	Thank you. Then we come to Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112006	Thank you, President. We would like to help correct a mistake made in 2012, when the world did not know that the alternative would ever exist, but of course we are voting to make that correction regardless of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112026	Thank you. Then we got through the series of rapporteurs, and then it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112032	Thank you very much. I would just like to briefly acknowledge the positive reception and also the very effective legal treatment of the bill here and just say that I am pleased to have this support for us to have the legislative error corrected, so that we ensure that the provisions of the Services Act on aid to cover lost earnings are brought into line with what was the political intention of the Rate Pool Agreement in 2012. I can only regret the fact that mistakes of this kind can arise and, of course, answer what may be of questions in relation to the statute of limitations, etc., in the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112107	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112113	Thank you. I have a question about what that will mean for these parents who have been paid too low a benefit. There I would like to know whether the government is willing to do so retroactively for those families who have been paid too little in benefits in relation to this regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112142	I think it is important to say that we are in the slightly special situation where no one has actually received too little in relation to what was the political agreement, but that legislation has been set aside too much in relation to what we had agreed. So in relation to the political intention, no one has received too little. Then it is true that there are some who have not received what they should, according to the words of the law, and it is also stated in the comments to the bill that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior, together with the KL, will organise a process that can meet a demand for backward payment to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112213	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112215	Thank you. I am glad to hear that, because it is clear that some people are going to be thinking: what about the money that I should have had in relation to this regulation and compensation for lost earnings?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112231	But there is a work here between the Ministry and the KL-- and that is also what I said in the answer to the question of the statute of limitations on how best to deal with it, and it is clearly the intention to be able to deal with it, and should there be some more technical questions in relation to that discussion about among others. The statute of limitations, etc., I am very happy to reply to them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112253	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112420	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 3 December 2019. For reasons of explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112443	Thank you very much. It has always seemed to me questionable when the Danish Parliament takes action to impose trade sanctions. Don't get me wrong; it may make sense that Denmark makes its position known if a state has violated law and law, but there are many ways to do such a thing other than by imposing unnecessary burdens on Danish industry. For that is the crux of the matter; it is the Danish export companies, large and small, which suffer when Denmark imposes sanctions. Take, for example, Russia, which Denmark sanctioned from 2014, after which Russia went to embargo against Danish export companies. The Embargo hit us over two laps: in February on live animals and in August on food in general. It was food producers who were so encouraged by public Denmark to do business with Russia. Just three years earlier, the Royal Couple and the Crown Prince were leaders of a large business delegation with the sole purpose of awakening interest in Russia with Danish companies. Everything was on the program: food, high technology, energy, culture, health, airports, oil and gas and lots of events and receptions, and the distinguished Danish guests met with the entire Russian leadership. 50 Danish companies jumped on the initiative of the official Denmark in order to benefit from the Russian market, which could boast economic growth of 4%. The export companies spent a three-digit amount of millions of dollars on the investment. And then boom! All investments were lost on the floor; the already large exports to Russia were over; the estimated losses were estimated at over 4 billion. kr. The first year alone. All because the Danish Parliament pressed the green sanction buttons. We in here had our backs free. The export companies paid that we could sit in here with halo around the ice and make it in goose eyes morally right. Is that what's going on, fair? That is what I hope this debate will be about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112701	Thank you. Then we give the floor to the Foreign Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129112714	Thank you. First of all, let me acknowledge that the rapporteur for the questioners has taken the initiative in this debate on sanctions policy. That's what we need. The debate is needed, because sanctions are becoming increasingly important in foreign policy. This is true in the EU's common foreign and security policy and, moreover, in transatlantic cooperation. Today we are faced with a complex threat picture which means, unfortunately, that we must use harder diplomatic tools whose dialogue is not enough to change the negative behaviour of other countries. In recent years, there has been a clear increase in the number of sanctions imposed by both the United States and the European Union. Iran, Syria, Venezuela and Russia are just some of the countries to which the EU has recently imposed several targeted sanctions. And the government generally has a positive attitude towards the use of UN and EU sanctions as a foreign policy instrument; but sanctions can never stand alone and they must be applied with care and care. If the situation so requires, sanctions may be a necessary and also legitimate tool in the efforts of the United Nations and the European Union to safeguard international peace and security. This also applies to action against terrorist groups, cyberattacks or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or to promoting respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Since the end of World War II, the UN has been able to apply the sanctions regime. Under Article 41 of the UN Charter, the UN Security Council may adopt measures to implement its decisions. This refers explicitly to the possibility of complete or partial interruption of economic relations. The EU's application of sanctions is based on the Treaty of Lisbon, which allows the EU to introduce, inter alia: economic sanctions within the framework of the EU's common foreign and security policy. However, sanctions are just words on a piece of paper if they are not enforced. Therefore, the government is working to strengthen regulatory cooperation in Denmark in the area of sanctions. We also need to do more at EU level. I have therefore advocated strengthening the EU's sanctions policy across the board. This applies to the EU sanctions instruments, but to a large extent also to the implementation and enforcement of sanctions by EU countries. Enforcement is a national task, but we must ensure that the European Commission and the European Union's common foreign service have the right tools. I would also like to take this opportunity to briefly highlight the relevant basic principles underlying the application of sanctions by the European Union. A key principle is that sanctions must form part of a comprehensive package of foreign policy instruments with which the EU can seek to influence the behaviour of third countries or other actors. Another key principle is that the EU's sanctions must be designed in such a way that they have the greatest possible effect on those whom the EU wants to influence. The government therefore attaches importance to the application of specific sanctions targeted at those individuals, entities or groups that we want to change policy or behaviour. The Government also considers that sanctions should be designed in such a way that negative humanitarian consequences are minimised and that as far as possible unintended economic consequences are also avoided. Today, specific questions are asked about the application of trade sanctions, which include various forms of export and import restrictions as well as financial restrictions. Trade sanctions can go very far and affect a number of economic sectors, such as: UN and EU sanctions against North Korea and Syria. However, trade sanctions can also be very specific, such as: The UN and the EU ban on arms exports to certain countries such as Sudan and Somalia. I would also like to emphasise here that there are quite a few of the EU sanctions regimes that involve far-reaching and extensive trade sanctions. The government's attitude to trade sanctions depends on several essential factors: what is the specific purpose of the sanction application? What behavior and what actors will we seek to influence? What types of sanctions are considered to be the most relevant in a given situation? The government's position is therefore based on a concrete assessment of which sanctions are considered to be most appropriate at a given time and in a given conflict. In this context, the government is working to avoid the EU's trade sanctions hitting Danish economic interests and jobs disproportionately hard. However, the risk of third countries imposing counter-sanctions in response to EU sanctions cannot always be avoided. We have seen this in recent years. There has been an interest in the EU's sanctions aimed at Russia, as the questioner has also mentioned. This is a good example of specific and targeted trade sanctions by European countries. Firstly, sanctions include bans on arms trade with Russia and export bans on products that can be used for both military and civil purposes. Secondly, the EU has imposed export restrictions on so-called sensitive technologies that can be used for, among other things. oil extraction in the Arctic regions. Finally, and thirdly, the EU has imposed financial restrictions on access by a few Russian state-owned banks and companies to the EU's capital markets. It's all for good reason. The EU's sanctions against Russia have been designed so specifically that they target important Russian state-owned companies and important arms and oil sectors, but do not affect Russia's population in general. The choice of the EU sanctions instruments also takes into account the fact that sanctions should not, as far as possible, affect businesses in the EU. On the other hand, contrary to what the European Union has done, Russia's response, which we saw in the form of the food embargo against the European Union, is comprehensive and has affected economic interests and companies in several EU countries, including Denmark. The Government acknowledges that trade sanctions imposed by the UN, the EU or third countries have in individual cases led to export restrictions to such an extent that Danish companies have had to dismiss employees. This could be an unintended consequence that we should address as far as possible, as I have said. At the same time, it should be stressed that there is no practice in Denmark and in the EU to provide direct financial support to companies to compensate for any economic damage caused by sanctions. Nor is it possible under the EU State aid rules to provide direct financial support to companies that may have been directly or indirectly affected by trade sanctions. But, of course, the government understands that there may be situations where it is reasonable for us, on the public side, to ensure that we help Danish companies and workers. Here I would like to highlight the extensive support for export promotion given to companies in Denmark. If companies experience restrictions on export opportunities due to EU sanctions or third country counter-actions against the EU, the government can offer Danish companies help to adapt to other markets. Companies may, inter alia,: receive export assistance through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' business advice or export promotion appropriations. Take as an example the Danish food exports to Russia that were affected when, as mentioned above, Russia imposed a food embargo on the EU in 2014. Danish food companies were able to compensate for lost exports to Russia by increasing exports to other markets. From 2014 to 2016, total Danish food exports abroad increased from 103 billion. kr. to 107 billion. kr., and this despite the fact that exports to Russia decreased dramatically and dramatically during the same period. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs assisted with advice on the conversion of exports away from Russia to other markets, including: through a special earmarked pool for small and medium-sized enterprises. The EU's common agricultural policy also offers opportunities for market stabilising measures to mitigate the negative impact on vulnerable sectors. Among other things: Danish pigmeat producers received a Union financial contribution for the storage of pigmeat for a period following the Russian food embargo. Of course, it is only right that we should do these things, because it is precisely in such crisis situations that the EU's market organisations should be able to be used. Therefore, should the Danish food sector again be affected by extensive sanctions directed against the EU, the government will work to ensure that support opportunities in the EU are fully exploited for the benefit of the Danish food sector. In addition, the government will also continuously assess whether the support opportunities are sufficient to address the challenges that Danish companies and workers may face as a result of sanctions. So let me also repeat to the rapporteur for the questioners, in conclusion, that it is fortunately an exception that Danish companies and workers are being affected to a greater extent by either the EU's trade sanctions or other countries' possible counter-sanctions. As I have said, this may be due to the fact that few of the EU's current sanctions impose extensive trade sanctions, and when this is sometimes the case as the EU's current sanctions against North Korea and Syria, there have been no significant Danish export markets. That is why we are also looking forward to today's debate. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129113738	Thank you. There is a possibility of a brief remark from the rapporteurs, but I can see that no one has indicated that they wish to speak. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129113804	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. I do not think he quite addressed the problems that individual, few Danish companies really suffered. As mentioned above, it was the very great patron who was stacked on his feet when the Queen, Prince Consort and Crown Prince traveled to Moscow in 2011. As TV 2 then noted in the report: During the state visit Danish trading interests have absolute priority. Russia was the place. Russia was a guf for Danish businessmen, and therefore Danish Occupation was brought forward in Moscow in connection with the state visit with more than 50 Danish companies with active participation by the Crown Prince. The Crown Prince said on TV at the time: This is the first time there is such a large business delegation that follows in connection with a state visit, which in itself is a historic event for Denmark. The Crown Prince cheered: We haven't had better relations with Russia in over 100 years. Everything was conceivable, and as mentioned, 50 Danish companies jumped on the economic advance train encouraged by the official Denmark, and the companies invested a three-digit million amount on the follow-up export activities. Three years later it was all over, the investments lost. The estimated export losses were estimated at 3,5 billion. kr. The first year alone. Denmark's huge food exports were hit hardest. This applies mostly to meat products, beef/pig meat and fish products. The latter was noted in parentheses: our compatriots in the Faroe Islands fresh enough to take over, and hurry for it, and congratulations to them. But it also applied to drinks, cereals, oils and fats, and bread products. Many companies suddenly stood with their hair in the mailbox and had to pick up before starting the export adventure to Russia. Here are a few examples, however, in which I have chosen to anonymise the companies concerned. If anyone wants to know the company's names, please contact me afterwards. The first is a dairy company with extensive exports to Russia before 2014 with large investments in logistics and infrastructure in Russia, which have only now been completed in 2019. The total loss for this company to date amounts to 200 million. kr. The loss of the Russian market was quite close to killing the company, and it is precisely these days that a greater adjustment is being made to take account of the final costs associated with the winding-up of their large investments in Russia. Another example is a fishing company with large exports to Russia of trout. Before the embargo, huge investments in exposure were made by the company. Because of the effort, the embargo was close to dismantling the company. I do not have a proper record of the total loss associated with this embargo. But these are just a few examples of the very serious losses that our business community suffered in connection with Russia's sanctions and that we in the Danish Parliament must and must deal with. Moreover, trade sanctions do not seem to have the very great effect on the countries against which they are engaged. We have sanctioned Cuba for 60 years, just as we have sanctioned Iran for 41 years. True, in both countries Communists and Islamists still resided somewhat impoverished. Secondly, and this is the most important thing, Danish business markets lose. I would like to stress that in this alone I am dealing with trade sanctions and embargoes. A great many other means can be used if you want to show contempt by the official Danish side for a country that doesn't care about law and order. You can summon the country's ambassador to the Ministry. You can recall the Danish ambassador in the country. You can declare diplomats undesirable. You can make it possible to take the country's top people into Denmark. Here are just a few options mentioned. There are many other means to be used. But trade must always be possible even with peoples we do not necessarily like. For example, it was also for the reason that the Danish People's Party recommended from the outset to allow Russia and Germany to allow their gas pipeline to take over Danish territory. Moreover, it was there that it ended up because even during the real Cold War energy supply and other trade took place freely over the Iron Curtain, and so it should be, because we must be able to trade with each other. What is crucial about this debate is that in future we get some guidelines on how the state will be able to help export companies that are in sudden trouble as a result of reasons they have nothing to do with. My final point must be that I feel that it is far too easy for the government and the Folketing to impose sanctions. As mentioned, we can sit with halo around our heads and press the buttons and do it completely free of charge for ourselves. We're not going to find 4-5 billion. kr. No, for us in here, it has no financial consequences. The business community will take care of that. Business pays for Denmark's foreign policy. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I shall make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament invites the government to consider how the state can in future compensate Danish export companies, who, as a result of Danish political decisions on embargo/sanctions, experience that a good and secure export market, which has perhaps been invested in and built up for many years, with one sudden change from day to day, often disappears with huge financial losses. • V 20).
ParlaMint-DK_20191129114347	Thank you. No one has asked for a brief comment, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129114402	First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate on how we deal with such issues. I think that when you come from North Jutland, it is the best of all worlds: there people are approachable, they are open, there is respect when you meet people, no matter how, and you obviously expect the same. But the good world does not exist everywhere, it is also evil out there sometimes, and it can be states that do not behave properly and attack other countries. These may be groups, religious groups we have also seen, they may be people that we want to mark that we have to deal with in a certain way. And, of course, we do, as Mr. Søren Espersen mentioned our diplomacy to take care of. And that's far better than going straight to war with each other. We have to deal with the various things that we are faced with, including in relation to our business community and our relations with other countries. That is why sanctions are one of the opportunities we have to be able to express them if something is going on that we do not like. And it's got to hurt some people, you know, even if you've been a shop steward like me. If you have a conflict, yes, it must hurt someone to get people back to the negotiating table. In some cases, it does not succeed in all cases, and there are, of course, examples that we have also had long-term sanctions against some in which it has not yet produced the right result. The Foreign Minister mentioned some things about how to do this. Of course, it needs to be cut right, so it is targeted at exactly the ones you want to hit. And that also means, of course, avoiding some things, for example. that it affects the civilian population in the countries to which sanctions are imposed or that there are consequences, for example: for Denmark or other EU countries that lose turnover and lose jobs. That is why we must, of course, always take this into account in our deliberations on how to reduce the damage to individual groups, to jobs and so on. Of course, you have to take that with you. But I think that with the palette that you have, both in the EU and in Denmark, examples were now mentioned in relation to Russia.The Danish Export Council can go in and help Danish companies find other markets, and fortunately in a large number of cases too. So, of course, there are challenges in terms of how and how to do these things. But we are completely convinced that we will have to react if that is the case, for example. Russia acts as they have done in the Crimean Peninsula in relation to Ukraine. Then we will have to send an appropriate answer to it. And that is for example. the penalties provided for. That Russia then sends counter-sanctions against us is well known for many different reasons. The Food Committee was in Russia a few years ago to see why it was long before this that Danish companies could not be allowed to deliver, for example. pork to Russia. And we specifically asked to see some of their slaughterhouses because they used the explanatory statement that it was because of veterinary conditions. And I have visited a great many slaughterhouses and know how much we do at home and comply with the toughest sanctions, both to export to Asia and especially to the United States. That's what you have to have. Nevertheless, the Russians said that our veterinary conditions in Danish slaughterhouses were not good enough, and therefore we could not deliver anything in that situation. So we know what the conditions are like. But I think that in these matters we have supported the Social Democratic Party, and we will continue to do so; we support the fact that due consideration is being taken, as the government also explains here today. It is, of course, true that it is the right tool and that the sanctions we impose are targeted and precise. And then, of course, the wish and hope are that they will work. So that is the word of the Social Democratic Party, and on behalf of the SF, the Radical Left, the Alternative, the Conservative, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democratic Party I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that trade sanctions can be a useful foreign policy instrument which is preferable to the use of armed force. The Folketing supports the application of sanctions in the pursuit of peace and respect for international law, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Specific and targeted sanctions should be applied as far as possible. Negative consequences for companies and workers in the EU should be taken into account when establishing EU sanctions. The Danish Parliament recognises that trade sanctions imposed by the UN, the EU or third countries may, in certain limited cases, lead to export restrictions to such an extent that Danish companies may dismiss employees. This could be an unintended consequence which should be addressed as far as possible. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to use allocated public funds and authorities, including the Danish Export Council, to help Danish companies find other markets in cases where sanctions may have inappropriate consequences for export opportunities for a sanctioned market. • V 21).
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115006	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115008	Thank you. Now come mr. Bjarne Laustsen with a whole lot of explanations as to why sanctions should be imposed. In other words, there may be good reason for this in some places. What I'm actually going to ask, sir. Bjarne Laustsen's approach is: How does he think that one should have acted against a company that I mentioned here, a dairy company that suddenly lost its livelihood and was going down and which has had a cost of 200 million? kr. They were not the ones who wanted it; they wanted it to continue. How should we deal with such things? Should you just say, "Oh, well, that's too bad if they can't make it, they're gonna have to go downstairs and go home"?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115058	I also believe that Danish companies like international law and law and that those with whom they trade also respect ordinary fundamental rights, which is why they also know how the piano plays. It is quite clear that it is not the individual company that is imposing sanctions; we are doing so on behalf of the state of Denmark. That is why a great many of the companies mentioned here have, I suppose, received support from the European Union for the creation and development of jobs. And that's where we say "and we know that the Export Council can go in and help such a company move on and start selling something to other markets if and when you get hit by such an event.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115152	I certainly believe that Danish companies have a social mind and also stand in solidarity with the decisions taken here in the Folketing. I think we certainly do, but it does not change anything about the fact that this is an immediate situation which has come from day to day, only two and a half years after Denmark had the biggest export promotion in history in Moscow. They went in there with open eyes and were encouraged to get into the market that was so lucrative and then suddenly it all collapses. What would the rapporteur have done if he had now been a minister in such a situation and seen a company threatened with existence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115235	I am quite sure that both Denmark and a large number of other countries in the European Union have given an appropriate response, for example. Russia, before imposing sanctions. So it is not the case that it comes over a night; there is a course, even as I remember history in the same way as Mr. Søren Espersen will do it. It is true that trade relations are very good everywhere in the world to achieve a greater understanding and opportunity to offer up for dancing, I would have liked to have said. We do business with each other for a living, so that is quite reasonable, but when a country like Russia starts acting unreasonablely, it is that we say that there must be the possibility of imposing sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115315	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115319	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. When I ask for the floor here, it is just to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is not Denmark that introduced trade sanctions in the dairy sector. In other words, we are imposing sanctions as the response that is necessary when a country breaks international law and starts with force to move borders. Then you have to respond to that as a democratic country, but it is not we who impose sanctions on a dairy company. It's not the Folketing. Russia has chosen to impose sanctions against Danish companies, against European companies. And one can then say that it naturally comes as a reaction to what Denmark has done, but it is not we who have chosen that some companies in Denmark should be hit. On the other hand, we have chosen to do a great deal to help those companies to overcome the situation in which they have come. I should therefore just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that it is not Denmark that has imposed sanctions on dairy companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115418	I am very pleased with the comments made by the former Foreign Minister, Mr. Kristian Jensen, for they fully confirm what we are doing. When we find ourselves in a situation where a country behaves inappropriately, we target those sanctions against that country. But it is also the case that they can make other reactions, and they have done so. It is quite true that we had never thought or dreamed of that could happen, and that is why we are in a situation where we are trying to help those companies move forward in relation to what is there. Basically, however, I believe that we fully agree that this is a tool that we need to carry in our luggage in order to maintain international law and law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115501	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Socialist rapporteur, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129115522	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate here. First of all, we must be proud of the Danish business community and Danish exports to the whole world. We have an innovative and progressive business environment, and Danish companies export annually for approx. 750 billion. kr. The Danish solutions are at a high price on the global markets. At the same time, it is extremely important to point out that of the countries that are in the top 15 over Denmark's largest export markets, only China is the one to which we have an embargo on the supply of arms. China is therefore the country that stands out most from the 14 others, which is one of them. is Germany, the United States, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Norway, Italy and Japan. We therefore export primarily to countries that are very much like ourselves in relation to both the Western model of society and the basis of values and democratic principles on which we live. Denmark and the EU apply sanctions to have a change in the policy or behaviour of persons, entities or groups. Sanctions are therefore sought in such a way that they have the greatest influence on those whose behaviour we want to influence. This is done mainly by recording persons or entities on penalty lists, thereby allowing their funds to be frozen or subject to trade or entry bans. It is important to emphasise that sanctions are not punitive measures. The fact that Denmark applies trade sanctions against countries such as Russia does not play a major role in relation to total Danish exports, as Russia is not on the top-15 list of these export markets. However, it should be pointed out that a country such as Russia has played a role as an importing country for Danish food companies, where large quantities of pork have been exported to the Russian markets. Therefore, it also immediately hit the Danish food industry really hard in 2014 when it was hit by Russia's ban on the import of a large number of food products from Western countries that were behind the sanctions. Danish Industry estimates that approx. 80% of the products that should have been exported to Russian markets were sold on other markets, which the EU also helped to help. Solutions to Russia's ban were found. This happened, among other things. by means of the EU's common agricultural policy. Under the EU's common agricultural policy, it is possible to implement these exceptional measures in the face of the market disruptions which may then arise. The measures were imposed when Russia closed its imports in 2014 at short notice. There may be different costs for the conversion of exports, and it is important that we see the situation in a larger perspective, even in the short term, even though it may harm the Danish export companies. As a democratic and free country, we cannot help to continue exports and thus support countries such as Russia or other nations that violate basic human rights or international bodies, as Russia did during the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula in February 2014. We must reject these absurdities, and this is done primarily through political dialogue, positive economic incentives and less far-reaching foreign policy instruments than sanctions. And when a country like Russia continues with its unacceptable behaviour towards Ukraine by making an annexation, the next step is to introduce trade sanctions. In Denmark, we are sticking to EU sanctions because it increases Russia's cost of continuing their unacceptable behaviour in Ukraine. These are sanctions that help prevent further escalation and encourage Russia to play a more constructive role in the implementation of the Minsk Agreement. It is important that the pressure for sanctions is maintained. It is always difficult to assess the impact of sanctions because they are based on counter-productive analyses. It is the view of the Left that sanctions increase the price for Russia in their unacceptable behaviour in Ukraine, thus helping sanctions to put pressure on Russia in relation to the implementation of the Minsk Agreement. The situation in Ukraine could have looked considerably worse if the EU had not imposed sanctions. It is difficult to accurately measure the impact of EU sanctions on Danish economy, among other things. Because of the general Russian protectionism. For Danish industry in general, however, costs have been limited, although some sectors and companies, as the rapporteur also mentions, have experienced negative effects. It is therefore not the right way to go if Denmark, for example, introduces financial compensation for Danish export companies, as is asked in the question from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120038	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120041	Now the former Secretary of State of the Left began Mr. Kristian Jensen such a game about who came first was it the chicken or the egg? And that is very interesting, but I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the Left to confirm that it was the European Union that imposed sanctions on Russia because of Russia's annexation of Crimea. Could the rapporteur please prepare to answer that question? The second point I want to make is that I do not deny that trade sanctions can sometimes be valuable. What I just don't want is that it is the companies in Denmark, Denmark's export companies, who pay for Denmark's foreign policy attitude. That's where the problem is. Well, that's the two things. One is confirmation that when Crimea was taken by the Russians, sanctions were imposed, which was then set off by an embargo from Russia. And the second is the reasonableness of Danish business companies having to pay for our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120142	I can't tell you if the egg or the chicken came first. However, the former Foreign Minister nods at least that the Russians imposed sanctions first, and then the EU did so afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120201	Is there a follow-up question? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120210	It may be that the former Foreign Minister nods, but that should not be taken for good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120215	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next rapporteur is Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120227	Thank you. As our Foreign Affairs rapporteur is away, on his behalf I should like to say the following about the Radical Left's relationship with trade sanctions. We believe that trade sanctions are a necessary evil. This is necessary because violations of international law, gross violations of human rights and other violations of international order must necessarily have that consequence if the international rulebook is to make any sense whatsoever. And in the vast majority of cases, a sanction would be a more obvious and appropriate means than, for example, a sanction. a military response. And it is an evil because it is known how difficult it is to hit the real culprits with sanctions and because sanctions often also result in a number of unintended effects, both in terms of the deterioration of the living conditions of the general population, business conditions outside and at home and less dialogue between the opposing parties. Trade sanctions must therefore be carefully considered; they must, as a starting point, always be a joint European decision in order to have any real effect and are often more effective as a threat than in real implementation. As far as possible, they must be targeted at the specific individuals and authorities responsible for the breach of international law, and they can never stand alone, but must be followed by political dialogue, not least in relation to people's relations. However, to write off sanctions completely as part of the foreign policy toolbox would also be a major mistake, as the world is developing today. The Radical Left therefore supports the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur has read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120405	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120424	Thank you. I think that we all have a common responsibility to ensure that human rights and international rules are respected, and this applies both to us here in the Folketing, who are involved in setting the framework, and also to the Danish companies who act and who, of course, also have to think about who they are dealing with and what they are selling to whom. So, in this way, I think it is very clear that we have a common responsibility there and that trade sanctions can also be a useful tool in this context. It is clear that in the past there has been really bad experience in making very wide-ranging trade sanctions, which mainly affect the general population of the countries, and this has a very damaging effect on their ability to cope, and it often has a negative political significance. But to go in to impose targeted sanctions on regimes, such as: If human rights violations are committed, I think they are perfectly appropriate and very sensible. I was insanely pleased that recently we in the Folketing could agree to adopt a ban on arms exports to Turkey. I think that was quite appropriate in the light of the invasion that has just taken place of the Kurdish territories of north-east Syria. Another time, when we have done so, has been in the case of Saudi Arabia, where sanctions have also been imposed and I have to say that, frankly, I think that was also appropriate, but that was too long in the process. In fact, when we have seen for years how the Saudi Kong dictatorship has tortured and suppressed their people, and so on, it is fair enough that we go in and do some trade sanctions, and that may be sensible, especially what is about stopping arms exports. So I can only support that, i.e. that we have that tool. In fact, I would also like to see it sometimes filled a little more, in other words, that respect for human rights was weighed a little more heavily against the interests of business. I also think that most people are aware of the fact that, for example, when it does so. come to China, it may be really difficult for Danish prime ministers and others to swing up to a real hardcore criticism because there are many trade billions on the table, and I think so, for example. is a concern we may have. We have also seen it in relation to Saudi Arabia that many countries have been afraid of going into the flesh of their human rights violations, and it is really, really important that we should dare to take the magazine out of our mouth and join in criticising those places where we see great human rights violations around the world and do not neglect it because we do not want to risk the interests of companies. In the case of Russia, I really think that it would be more interesting to discuss, it can be said that the European Union did not initially behave so extremely cleverly in dealing with the situation in Ukraine either. Perhaps you could have played smarter, and at this stage I think it is appropriate to discuss how we can move forward both in terms of security policy and political policy and in some way have a more relaxed situation with Russia. I think we all have an interest in this, both in security policy and in trade policy. I think that's one of the things you have to look at instead. It seems to me quite obvious that there is a risk of trade for most companies, and typically it does not just come as a lightning from a clear sky that there are actually problems. I think most companies, for example. It has been able to see for many years that it was mad at Saudi Arabia and human rights there, etc. It can also be seen in relation to Turkey that there is something that needs to be taken off in advance, so I do not think that one should have such an automatism with companies just being compensated. We all have a responsibility to act in the political game and to ensure respect for human rights. Against this background, I would like to say that I also think that there are many fine things in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group and supported by the others. I have drafted a proposal for adoption, which is perhaps a much sharper one, which I regret has been lately circulated, so there are probably also some who have not quite had the offer, but now it comes here. It states: Proposal for adoption The Parliament wants an international development marked by peace, respect for human rights and respect for international law. Targeted economic sanctions can be a good tool for putting pressure on regimes that violate human rights and international rules of play. The Danish Parliament has recently adopted a ban on arms exports to Turkey. This is quite appropriate in the light of Turkey's unacceptable attacks on the Kurdish territories in Syria. Arms trafficking is an area which is subject, for good reason, to political control. Therefore, producers of weapons must also assume that exports to certain countries and regimes can be banned without triggering financial compensation. Of course, Danish companies also have a responsibility and an interest in supporting respect for human rights and international law. V 22).
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120942	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129120944	I must congratulate you on your speech. It just had nothing to do with the case. A great deal is being mentioned about human rights, dictators around which we must fight and so on. But my business is, who's gonna pay for this? Mrs Eva Flyvholm does not relate to this at all. This is a long story, which is of course incredibly interesting to discuss, but I would like Mrs Flyvholm to consider whether she believes that Danish business should pay for Denmark's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121015	I really think I have been quite clear about that, I would say. Yes, respect for human rights and also respect for international law are, for me, something that we must put above our narrow economic interests. Yeah, I mean that. And in this case, there is an arms trade issue, such as the United States. I also believe that we should not call for the arms manufacturers to be compensated. Then there is the situation around Russia, and I would like to agree with the rapporteur that there are many companies that are in a mess. There I think the best solution for all parties is to work politically to bring the situation back to normal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121055	However, putting the economy ahead of human rights is what I understand it is about not being done. The economy isn't coming up. But whose economy? That's what we're talking about. Whose economy is that not supposed to be above human rights? Is it export companies in Denmark that export fish to the Russian market, or is it parliament and government that has to pay for it? That is just what I would like to ask Mrs Flyvholm to deal with. Because I agree with the second, i.e. that the economy must not get over this kind of thing. But whose economy? You have to try to relate to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121132-2	Well, I am pleased with the rapporteur's observation that human rights come first. It's not always that I quite have that experience. But when it comes to the economy, what I am saying is that, yes, I do not think we should actually say that we are going in and compensating all companies that may be affected by the trade restrictions. No, I just don't think we should. However, I think it makes sense to try to pursue a responsible and sustainable economic policy that promotes human rights and thus also helps Danish companies to enter into a more sustainable international trade climate. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121210	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121225	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the question debate. After all, this is an important issue, I think, when it comes to foreign policy, because foreign policy can be filled with conflict. There are various instruments for resolving those conflicts. It may be negotiation and dialogue, and it may be the military, but sometimes sanctions need to be applied. Sanctions can have a great deal of effect. We have seen several examples of this over time. Just take South Africa. The collapse in South Africa was largely the merit of sanctions. The same applies to Burma. The sanctions resulted in a democratic process. It has not been entirely optimal, but at least there were some upheavals, and that was thanks to the sanctions. In the past, sanctions were applied against Iran and Libya. It was not so successful, but it had some effect, not least the use of sanctions against Iran. The sanctions were, in fact, what forced the Iranians to the negotiating table. They really started hurting. The fact that a nuclear agreement has been reached that is not too good is something quite different, but at least they came to the negotiating table. The same applies to Russia. As long as they do not comply with the Minsk Agreement, the sanctions must be there and tightened up, including against people close to the Russian President. I recognise that sanctions are a difficult instrument. It is difficult to determine whether they are targeted, but they have an effect. When imposing sanctions, it is also important to make sure that the affected country does not try to circumvent those sanctions. We have also seen examples of this in several places. Some say that the sanction instrument is very difficult, but because it is difficult, it should not be abandoned in certain situations, and it is extremely important that we in Denmark do not impose sanctions alone. It is important that this is done in cooperation with other like-minded countries of the European Union or other Western countries. And it is an important point in relation to sanctions that they are tailored to the situation and the country concerned. Because the same elements of sanctions cannot be used for different countries' conflicts. They must be tailored to a particular country. There are several things that are crucial when imposing sanctions. It is extremely important to avoid hitting the civilian population. It can often be a victim in a conflict. It is also important that there is broad support and a coalition that joins together on sanctions as an instrument. The sanctions must, of course, have an objective, and that is that those against whom sanctions are imposed should come to the negotiating table and be pressured. And then we must keep in mind that sanctions must also be based on compliance with legal guarantees. Last but not least, I think it is important that sanctions do not affect our companies, and that is why I think it is an important debate that the Danish People's Party is travelling. For the reverse of the medal in relation to sanctions is that they can cost jobs, and we just have to pay attention to that. For this reason, I believe that we have arrived at a good proposal for adoption with several parties together with the government, which explicitly states that we must help our companies when sanctions are imposed so that we do not lose jobs. We must help them to enter new markets. That is why I think that this debate has led to a good proposal for adoption, which also takes account of Danish companies when we impose sanctions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121656	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121658	But I have to say to Mr. Naser Khader, that Mr. Naser Khader does not relate to what is the subject. As I also said to Mrs Flyvholm, the question is: what are we doing when it comes to hitting Danish companies? That's the point. Sir. Naser Khader mentions a lot of things, among others. where sanctions have been successful. I believe that. Well, maybe it is. But that's not what this is about. My point is, and I would like to ask Mr. Naser Khader to relate to who should pay when we make some political decision here, which means I have mentioned a few examples that smaller manufacturing companies suddenly lose the basis of existence. I'd like to know who's gonna pay for it. It is not a question of whether sanctions have any effect. I do not think that is at all what we are discussing today. And since I'm the one who called the question, I know what's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121755	That's what I'm saying. We have come up with a proposal for a decision that we should in future help the Danish companies affected by those sanctions. I think that the proposal for adoption is a good starting point in relation to the fact that Danish companies are being penalised. In future, we will have to find out in concrete terms how individual companies are to be helped when they are affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121821	Well, thank you for that. That's actually the point of this. We must try to find out what we are doing if the unfortunate situation surrounding Russia is repeated. That is what is extremely important. For then Danish business companies can enter a market with open eyes, which is recommended and where it is also appreciated that you enter. But I don't want them to see it all crumble for them. That's where we are. And that is the discussion I would like us to take and also afterwards when this debate is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121854	I don't expect it to be over here either. Now we have a proposal for adoption and I think it is a good proposal. Then in future we will have to take the dialogue on how to put it into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121905	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and the next in the rapporteur's series is the Sikandar Siddique of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129121916	Thank you for the floor. I am speaking today on behalf of our rapporteur, who is unfortunately prevented from giving the speech himself. The alternative recognises that in certain limited cases trade sanctions may lead to export restrictions to such an extent that Danish companies have to dismiss employees. This could be an unintended consequence which should be addressed as far as possible. The Foreign Minister's reply of 6 July 2019 shows that the Danish companies most affected by negative consequences have been companies exporting for military use or to military end-users in Russia. As was also apparent back in February when we dealt with B 70, the motion for a resolution by Parliament banning the export and sale of arms, arms and war material to countries which seriously violate human rights, tabled by EL, the Alternative and the SF, the alternative is that we should not export weapons or other weapons of war to countries that violate human rights. After all, human rights exist for all people, and they do not exist for countries, they do not exist for companies, no, they exist to protect us, everyone who lives on this earth. That is why, in the alternative, we believe that we have a responsibility to work to ensure that the goods exported by Denmark are not used to lead military activism in other countries. In a globalised world, in the Alternative, we believe that trade sanctions are an important tool to use to press regimes that violate human rights and otherwise violate our international rules. In the alternative, we believe that human life is more important than economic growth. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129122055	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the alternative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129122109	Thank you for the floor. In New Citizens we are strong supporters of trade between nations. It creates prosperity for all parties and helps to strengthen relations between countries. However, we recognise that trade sanctions are a tool which is preferable to the use of armed force. New citizens are very sceptical about the deployment of Danish forces into conflicts that do not have a direct security impact for Denmark, and we are therefore willing to use trade sanctions as an alternative. Trade sanctions are detrimental to Danish companies and wealth, and therefore the means should only be used in very special cases. The Danish People's Party proposes that the government should consider how the state can in future compensate Danish export companies affected by the imposition of sanctions. It is a sympathetic idea, as trade sanctions affect businesses without their own guilt. However, it will open up incalculable consequences if it becomes the norm that Danish companies are compensated. How is it to be determined what a company would have served if the embargo had not been imposed? Do companies have to pay back money if they place the goods in another country? Although it is a sympathetic idea, New Citizens cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption. New citizens support the second proposal for adoption, as put forward by the Social Democrat rapporteur, and we do so partly because of the above comments, partly because it is clear from the text that negative consequences for companies and workers should be taken into account when sanctions are being devised and partly because the government is calling for support for companies with help in finding other markets. This can hardly solve the problems in any case, but it is a better way of trying to help companies than by direct compensation. So new citizens support that proposal for adoption, but we do have a call to be very careful about using trade sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129122307	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129122324	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for a very exciting debate. Trade sanctions are a dilemma. The Danish People's Party is absolutely right about that. That is why it is good that we have this debate. In Denmark, we have a vital interest in the peacefulness of the world. We have the world's fifth largest merchant fleet, so first of all we make a lot of money on having this merchant fleet, and secondly we have to have something to sail with. So a peaceful world is absolutely vital to the country's economic well-being. That is why we are doing a great deal to work on a rule-based international order, because the alternative, if you have the world's fifth largest merchant fleet, is that you also have to have the world's fifth largest navy. I don't think anyone can imagine that we can afford that in Denmark. I do not believe that, in principle, international politics can be imagined without the instrument of sanctions itself. There are regimes to which it is not responsible to sell certain product groups. It can, for example, be done. There are regimes which may have to be put under non-military pressure. However, it is important that sanctions make sense in the sense that they are effective, and I certainly believe that we can improve on the issue of evaluating the effectiveness of sanctions. Because there is something strange about sanctioning the third, fourth, fifth and sixth decades. Because that will at some point raise a debate about how long to stay with it is clear. I think we have received a good and comprehensive statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the extent of the sanctions and the rules for this, and I would, of course, like to express my thanks for that. As I said, I think we can be better at evaluating sanctions. Is it the right people who have been elected? Are they effective and how do companies deal with the financial risk that exists in countries that can be subject to sanctions? The economic issue raised by the Danish People's Party basically seems to me to be a question of risk profiles in certain markets. When companies are on certain markets, there will also be questions of exchange rate fluctuations, which are also part of the risk. There will be issues of civil unrest. Large companies, which are in many markets, have analysis departments that sit and do these risk profiles in individual countries. Of course, it should also be said that in some countries it is just the case that sanctions are somehow part of the risk profile, but that is why we, as politicians and as a state, cannot care less about it. But basically, the issue that is being raised is a question of financial risk, which companies in any case are looking at, in a large number of countries at least outside the European Union. On the question of Russia, which has also been raised, I would therefore like to use my speaking time to say something about it. After all, it is unacceptable for Russia to move the borders unilaterally. After all, the evaluation of sanctions does not escape us, because if you know anything about Russia's history, it is hard to imagine that they are handing over Crimea. I seriously believe that in 100 or 200 years' time the Danish Parliament will be able to discuss whether we should continue to have sanctions. It is a little strange that there will be a Parliament in 200 years' time to discuss sanctions in relation to Crimea, but that may well happen if we do not have the discussion at some point. That is something worth considering, and there is plenty of time to think about it, because there are 100 or 200 years to think about it, so we can just start it now, and then we can take it up some other time. Thank you for a good debate and we welcome the proposal for adoption that the Socialist rapporteur has read out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129122741	There are no brief comments and no more in the rapporteur's line, and we must end with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129122755	Thank you. I would like to thank the authors of the question, sir. Søren Espersen, first of all, to take the initiative in this debate, and then I would also like to thank all the other rapporteurs for a good debate. I also personally welcome the interest and commitment in this issue. I also think it is positive, after all, that we have a broad majority in this House in favour of the motion for a resolution that has been tabled, which also answers the questions put to us in the text of the question, that is to say, the question put by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Søren Espersen about what you do to help, for example. Danish companies, the business community that unwittingly get into trouble, not because we have made some decisions in the Folketing, but because some other countries, in this case Russia, have responded to some targeted sanctions we have made against Russia, because, as several rapporteurs have said, Russia has not only annexed Crimea, but also, in this way, vis-à-vis Eastern Ukraine, plays a very negative role. What we are really just asking Russia to do is to comply with the Minsk agreement. If they did, we could lift the sanctions tomorrow, and then we would have normalized our trade in relation to these things here. So you can say that the ball is not on our table, it is actually on Putin and Russia's table. And I think it is really important in relation to this type of sanctions that we are talking about here and that we can say that we share not only in the EU countries but also very much in agreement with the Americans, so here is an example of how the United States and Europe have been united with successive presidents to say: what Russia has done here is unacceptable behaviour and changing their behaviour, we are also ready to change relations with Russia in relation to the sanctions. And I think that's important. Many wise things have been said in the debate, and I shall not repeat them all. However, it is clear that we have a foreign policy toolkit and, as many have said, it is good that we have other tools than just armed power when it comes to respecting international law and law and human rights and peace between countries. There are also other things in the toolbox that we can look at. In any case, sanctions must be as targeted as possible and applied with great care, as we also agree on here. I'd like to say that. So thank you for the debate. However, I have to say a few words, because the history of the EU's trade sanctions against Russia and counter-sanctions, and what it has actually cost Danish companies and what history has been like, has been mentioned by several people. First of all, it is very difficult to accurately measure the impact of EU sanctions on the Danish economy, also due to the fact that people who have visited Russia will know the general Russian protectionism in relation to their own economy. Then it may be difficult to assess how much sanctions there are, how much counter-sanctions there are and how much is due to the policy pursued in Russia to protect its own industries. It can be said that in general for Danish industry the costs have probably been limited, although individual sectors and companies have experienced a negative effect. It can also be noted that Russia, like Mr. In February 2014, Søren Espersen mentioned veterinary restrictions on imports of pigmeat products from the EU due to fear of swine fever. This had nothing to do with our targeted sanctions against Russia, but was due to fear of swine fever. So those sanctions were introduced before August 2014, and that was Mr. Søren Espersen also mentioned, Russia really introduced actual counter-sanctions, and this is a major import ban on agricultural products, raw materials and food. And it can be said that the Russian import ban is estimated to have cost Danish exports approx. 3 billion kr. in 2013, about half of which is related to the veterinary restrictions in relation to imports of pigmeat. We also note in the government that the Danish exporters affected seem to have been good at finding other markets and thus reducing the consequences of the Russian import ban. I think that this too is important to emphasise. In connection with Russia's food embargo on the EU, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs earmarked funds under this appropriation for small and medium-sized enterprises. Danish companies that experienced the restrictions on exports to Russia could therefore get 65%. grants to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' export advice. The pack was 5 million. kr. and ran from 2014 to 2017. The company's demand for this particular pool, and this is an example, was limited, with only approx. 1.5 million kr. were used and no funds were subsequently earmarked for similar pools. However, in any case, it is important that, when we set up our sanctions as carefully as possible, we of course look to avoid having consequences for people who have no responsibility for these things, neither the civilian population in the countries against which we sanction, nor indirectly our own businesses and workers. Several have mentioned, and Mr. Henrik Dahl also in the end, this about the sanction regime as such, that there are some sanctions running on the second, third, fourth, fifth decade, and that there is a need to evaluate them. I totally agree. I believe that we must be better not only at evaluating sanctions but also at enforcing them, and it is, of course, when we do so together in the European Union, a national task to enforce sanctions, but the European Commission and the Common Foreign Service can be better at coordinating that enforcement actually takes place, otherwise it will be untrustworthy to impose sanctions and then it will become something symbolic. That is why I also think it is important for us to be better at enforcing, but we would also very much like to be better at evaluating when it has an effect and to what extent. I would also like to say that we are generally very careful to use the sanction instrument precisely for the very reason that Mr. Henrik Dahl said that, once sanctions have been imposed, it can also be very difficult to get out of them again before there is a real change in the behaviour of those against whom sanctions have been imposed. And sometimes it may take a very long time with some of the regimes we are talking about. Trade sanctions, as Mrs Flyvholm mentioned, are also restrictions on arms exports and financial restrictions. There are many important elements in the toolbox that must be kept in mind. So overall, I think we have had a very good debate, and I also look forward to working on this with the broad proposal for adoption that we have had. This is something that we in the government take very seriously, and I would again like to thank all the rapporteurs for the constructive debate we have had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129123454	There are no questions for the Secretary of State. And now it is that the rapporteur for the questioners has the opportunity to round off the debate. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129123508	Thank you very much. And thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his comments and also for this factual correction in relation to pig exports. I wasn't aware of that. It was nice to be reproved there. I would say that this has been an interesting discussion, and it is not, as such, because I have so terribly opposed the joint motion for a resolution that has been tabled. However, I would like to comment on the last point, in other words where the Danish Parliament calls on the government to use public funds to help Danish companies find other markets. All this is fine, and I think we have always done and have to do that when we get into this kind of situation, but for many companies it is not enough to deal with the problems they have had. Thank you, too, for all the comments that have been made. However, I think that after all some of the rapporteurs spoke a little out of the question, and here I am not looking particularly at Mrs Eva Flyvholm, but instead we should look at who really has to pay for this party. Sir. Mr Dahl, I agree with what he says about Crimea. So, it's a little too bad I hardly dare say: in a closed circle, said that you have pinpointed Crimea as the condition for restoring sensible trade cooperation with Russia, because there seems to be no one around the world who believes that Crimea will ever again become Ukrainian. It's sad, but I think that's the real world. And the fact that Crimea is mentioned in the declaration makes it very, very difficult to imagine a situation in which we can once again have sensible trade cooperation with Russia. Then I also agree with Mr. Henrik Dahl, when he says that companies themselves also have some economic risk assessments when deciding how uncertain the market is in which they intend to engage. But I would also like to say that, particularly with regard to Russia, there was certainly no uncertainty at all. We had simply been friends with them for 100 years, and we could also be friends with them for the next 100 years. There were no operators who had problems in the same way as if they had to work their way into the Saudi market or some other market. Of course, you always have some assessments where you say: is this worth it? Otherwise, of course, it is always easier just to trade with Norway. But it's not certain we can get rid of it all there. It is clear that this is the case. This also applies, I would say, to the arms embargo, which Mrs Flyvholm also mentioned. I agree that there may also be a situation where they say: we do not want to sell weapons to that and that market or that and that country. We just need to have as a starting point that arms production and also arms exports are a legal profession. You like it or not, but it is. That is why we have to acknowledge that if we come into a situation where, for some reason, it is also important to have an embargo on arms, we must also say, in the same way as with other export companies, that we have now had complete legal production and legal sales to these, and that is the end of it. Somehow you have to go in there and, of course, always take care to help find other markets. No, my point with it all is that it is so possible that I haven't made myself clear enough is actually to figure out a way in which we can't just press in here a sanction button or an embargo button. We have ours on the dry side when we do so, but then it unintentionally hits some quite others that we do not want to hit. And there I also take the remarks of the Foreign Minister as a good sign, that is to say that you want to look at what situation we suddenly find ourselves in when something like this happens. I do not think we are going to have a similar discussion of a similar problem that we had with Russia, because I think it is precisely on those uncertain markets, as Mr. Henrik Dahl is talking about, well aware that there is an uncertainty associated with it. But I guess no one had dreamed of in connection with the Mohammed drawings that suddenly you would no longer drink Danish milk in Saudi Arabia and something like that. Well, there was no reaction to it, but it could easily have done so. Now Arla was so huge a company that I think the problems for them have not been as great as for some of these smaller companies that I mentioned in my presentation. But so it is a question of: who is paying the price for Denmark's foreign policy? And there is my view that it does the government and the Folketing, not the business community and the production companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129123943	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129123948	When you're called out, you almost have to answer. I would like to say that, with regard to trade sanctions, it is a mixed picture, in other words, in relation to who should bear the responsibility. We can, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the human rights situation in China. If Denmark does what we want it to do in this context, then it has to be said that it can also have economic consequences. We have seen that it has received too many other countries. It happened, for example. for Norway, when they liked to give a prize to a human rights activist, because then it had financial consequences for them. Should we then hold back politically from raising that criticism, because it may risk hitting Danish companies, or should we promise to compensate all Danish companies that may be affected by this afterwards? I simply do not think we can do that. We also need to act politically on the basis of what we think is right and necessary politically. And I would just like the rapporteur to say that this factor is also incumbent on us as politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124053	Well, it certainly does. When it comes to China, it is important to say that they are in every way wrong in the way they drive their country. Well, I've actually said before with the permission of the President that you have to deal with the devil yourself. That is, of course, a rather drastic way of saying it. But we need to be able to trade, including those we don't like. But you can then protest against China in a different way, because there are plenty of opportunities, namely in terms of the way China acts in Denmark. They're asking us to throw some Taiwanese dance troupe out of some music stuff, because those who want to set the limit and the agenda of what we can do. There are Taiwanese companies here in Denmark who are harassed at all ends and edges. We can stop that, we can do something about that. And Mrs Flyvholm also knows that I do not have very loving thoughts about Communist China, and I believe that we should do what we can. But I think you should deal with them to the very end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124158	It is not with the permission of the President that we call on higher powers from the platform, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124204	As far as China is concerned, I just think that it is clear that it will have consequences, including what we are doing here in Denmark, and that the consequences must be ready to take, and that is something that must be dealt with, I think. That is also why I do not believe that you can just give carte blanche to compensate all companies that may be affected by sanctions because of political statements that we are making. I do not agree that you should deal with the unspeakable self. Because I actually think that you should have some pretty tough rules on who you are dealing with and try to promote our human rights in that account too. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that there are, in fact, some guidelines for the conduct of companies which are concerned with human rights and international law, which they are also obliged to respect and try to comply with?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124257	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124258	Yes, I can agree to some extent with the questioner, certainly, and I do not believe that all companies should be compensated, as has been said. I do not believe that full compensation should be provided. I believe that the right places should be found. It can, for example, be done. be in cooperation with Agriculture & Food or some who have been deeply involved in this matter with Russia. You can ask them to say whether somewhere there is some small, not very big company that finds a niche somewhere in the Russian market and really hits through the market and is there anything you can help them with? I don't know if such offers are being made. But we can say that we will help find another market, but it is not certain that the little nichedims they have now come up with will also be able to be sold in, for example. Brazil.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124345	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124348	Thank you. Now I don't know if those powers, like Mr. Knox... Søren Espersen would like to trade with, take Dankort or MobilePay, but it is clear that it can be quite interesting. Now Russia has been mentioned a lot today, and I do not think that this should just be about Russia alone. I would therefore like the rapporteur to say that what Russia has done is wrong. Then we can discuss what sanctions should be and what the consequences should be. But what I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Espersen and Dansk Folkeparti to support the broad majority that is in here. Sir. Søren Espersen himself mentioned this, and the last paragraph says what it is all about, namely that you can help the companies that have been put in a mess. You can evaluate it and you can look at how and how these sanctions work, also in the long term. That is why it will be the best starting point if the whole parliament now broadly agrees on the proposal for adoption that I have put forward on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124447	The first thing I have to answer is whether Russia has violated international law. Of course they have it in connection with what happened in Crimea, and that is certainly what they are doing in Ukraine too. The reason why I cannot support the proposal for adoption that lies is that it only talks about helping to find other markets. It's actually in the last three lines. Of course, I think we should do that, and I think they are doing a great deal of work for that in the Export Council. But I don't think that's enough. I'm talking about direct compensation. I mentioned this dairy company, which has so far lost 200 million. kr. on something they have absolutely not asked for. And that was actually where we should have helped, also financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124532	But if we now share the view that Russia has done something wrong here, but we do not think that sanctions should be imposed because it could cost somebody something, what should happen then? What response does it think should be given by the EU and Denmark if it is not to be sanctioned? If we now agree that Russia has gone too far, that they have taken themselves and that they should not do so, what should happen to Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124600	I think it is very good that commercial sanctions can also be imposed. Even if I don't like it, I think it can be a road. But there are just some who have to pay for the decision that we are now making, and that is not us. Even though we in here, together with the government, have some control over the Treasury, we are not going to spend some money. And when I tell us, I mean the Folketing and the government, and it's not us that's gonna lose anything on this. That is the problem. I certainly do not deny that trade sanctions can be valuable. I just want there to be a clear addressee on who to send the bill to • whether it is to us or it is to the individual company.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124637	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 3 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191129124704	I have received notification that Marcus Knuth per. Today's date is included in the parliamentary group of the Conservative People's Party. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 3 December 2019 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
