ParlaMint-DK_20190208100036	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 93 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to give an official apology to the 22 Greenlandic children who were part of the Greenlandic experiment in 1951). Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-94 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an increase in the quality of nature in Denmark's national parks). Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 95 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the zone ban and the criminalisation of the homeless). Peter Skaarup (DF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B-96 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a Danish Climate Act now (Citizen's Proposal)). Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 97 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of avoiding the demolition of general housing in hard ghetto areas). Peter Kofod (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 98 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the rules for the storage of plate data obtained from police cameras for automatic plate recognition). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 99 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an increase in the daily subsistence allowance for persons with longterm links to the labour market and a reduction in the cash allowance allowance for beneficiaries under 25 years of age). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190208100221	The debate is open. Here you go to Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208100241	Thank you. The bill is two-part. One part is about how we want to regulate needle acupuncture on the chest, so we avoid cases where needle acupuncture performed on just the chest will cause collapsed lungs. The second part is about a ban on the construction of virgin membranes. First, the breast acupuncture: unfortunately, some cases of collapsed lungs have appeared in connection with the conduct of needle acupuncture on the chest; we have even witnessed a death. In order to avoid this happening in the future, the law is now amended so that it is required that persons performing this type of acupuncture should undergo a 3-day course. In the licensing law, needle acupuncture is excluded from the reserved fields of activity of doctors and this means that needle acupuncture treatment can be carried out by all persons with or without authorisation. We must, of course, avoid accidents, and therefore there is common sense in requiring acupuncturers to have sufficient knowledge of the dangers of breast acupuncture and how to react if something unforeseen happens. On the basis of a series of consultation responses, it is proposed that the acupuncturers be divided into three groups. The first group, which includes doctors, should not receive further training, as doctors are trained to recognise and manage complications of treatment, and the group also includes chiropractors, as through their initial training they have gained the necessary knowledge to handle and recognise lung damage after needle acupuncture. Finally, acupuncture treatment, which is carried out as part of hospital treatment in a public hospital, will also not be covered by the requirement for a course. The second group, however, includes health professionals with training as a physiotherapist, nurses and midwives. This group already has a great deal of competence and can therefore be content with a single day course. The last group, group three, includes other persons who wish to perform needle acupuncture on the chest. The group must have a course of 3 days duration. In some hearings it is suggested that only doctors and chiropractors should be allowed to give breast acupuncture, but that is not what we want from the Social Democrats. We prefer to maintain acupuncture as being non-treatment. The second part of the bill is that it should be forbidden to construct virgin membranes in women. The idea of hymen as a virgin membrane covering the vagina entrance and jumping at first vaginal intercourse is a culturally created myth. For many women, the hymen will neither break nor bleed at first intercourse. It is now easy and easy to create an artificial closure or narrowing of the vagina entrance, thus imitating the presence of a virgin membrane. Complications of such an operation are assumed to be rare, but may consist of bleeding, infection and painful scarring. Construction of an artificial virgin membrane helps maintain a myth that all virgins bleed the first time they have intercourse. Thus, pressure is maintained against women on the basis of unrealistic expectations that are not based on facts. The Danish Regions have stated that they have no knowledge that there is interference of this nature in the public health service. However, it has been found that there are some private clinics that on their websites offer the intervention reconstruction of the virgin. Such interventions help to maintain the myth of a virgin membrane. At the same time, surgery always involves a risk of complications such as infection, side effects of anesthesia, poor wound healing, blood accumulation and scars. Although not many people are developing a new virginia, we must admit that for some women it is a serious matter and that they can anticipate and that we must anticipate that they will then have this small operation carried out elsewhere, that is, outside the country. I am fully aware that most or at least some of them are negative about the draft law. This is a very, very difficult issue and, as I said, there may be good reasons why some women should have this intervention. Nevertheless, we must bear in mind that the unrealistic expectations that women face in certain families are not based on facts and that efforts are needed to maneuver this myth in the ground. The Social Democrats vote in favour of the draft law as a whole, and I would like to welcome the Radicals and say that they also agree with the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208100726	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208100735	Thank you. We in the Danish Parliament have long debated needle acupuncture and how to ensure that people treated with acupuncture are not harmed. The proposal here is to require the practitioner to complete a course of prevention, recognition and handling complications of treatment in order to perform needle acupuncture on the chest. In short, we must avoid damage and know what to do if the accident is out. We in the Danish People's Party would have liked to see a specific licensing system for acupuncturers guaranteed, so we also ensure that they are trained to know what they are doing. So with the proposal here you can still buy needles online and take a weekend course, and with the Minister's course in preventing and handling collapsed lungs you can call yourself acupuncturist and treat citizens. We do not think this is optimal, but the proposal is far better than nothing, so we will vote in favour of the proposal, but we will continue to work for a proper authorisation system. Sometimes one wonders how different sub-proposals a single legislative proposal can contain. Ten seconds ago I was talking about the risk of lung puncture by acupuncture, and the next part of the bill is about the ban on so-called reconstruction of the virgin. You get a long way in the anatomy, you have to say. In addition, I must point out that I am usually rapporteur for development aid and for social dumping. Therefore, virgin membranes and genital crowns are a little on the periphery of what I usually do wisely here from the platform. So I hope that the rapporteurs and the President will forgive me if I am not completely up to date with the exact definitions. I have recently learned from the written material in the case that the earlier view of the virgin as an intact membrane in the woman is based on a misunderstanding. Today, the anatomical truth is such that instead there are several layers of smaller mucous membranes. This explains why it appears to be more random whether there is a bleeding at the first intercourse of women, which in some cultures is unfortunately considered particularly chaste. In other situations there may be ruptured mucous membranes for other reasons, so the bleeding may be absent at the woman's first intercourse for these reasons. All are conditions that can make it difficult to maintain the idea of the coveted chastity which appears to be so sought after in certain cultures. And it is in continuation of this quest for virginity that the reconstruction of the virgin is practiced, as is popularly called. But it is precisely not a matter of reconstruction, since this one intact membrane has not existed. The reconstruction is therefore actually a completely different procedure, and although the risk of the procedure may be minimal, the procedure is superfluous with medical glasses. It can be said that the intervention is of a culture-cosmetic nature, meaning that action is taken to satisfy a culture-based view of chastity, which is therefore based on an anatomical tale. And where it can be difficult enough to kill deep-seated tales in advance, we see here that the so-called reconstruction with modern medicine is currently insisting on maintaining and cementing the myth that the first intercourse must be associated with bleeding. This is, of course, a wrong direction and therefore these reconstructions must be stopped. And yes, we are aware that for some women this will be problematic. However, one cannot maintain a notion that the earth is flat, just to reassure people from a particular culture circle. It would, in fact, be arrogant and condescending to those concerned to hide scientific realities. The Danish People's Party also welcomes this part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208101117	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208101130	As mentioned by the two previous rapporteurs, this is a legislative proposal containing two elements, the first of which concerns a requirement for persons carrying out acupuncture and the second concerning a ban on the construction of artificial virgin membranes. The background to the first part of the bill is sad, indeed very sad. It is thus possible to ask what a 71-year-old man from Holbæk, a 13-year-old elite swimmer from Viborg and a 16-year-old boy from Hillerød have in common. Yes, they have it in common that they have all been with an acupuncturer and have had needle acupuncture made in the chest, and all have experienced that the lungs have collapsed. It cost the 71-year-old man his life. The management of patient safety has been involved, and in the Left we also take this type of incident very seriously. For right now, it is the case that anyone can perform acupuncture without certification, training or any kind of official recognition, and it causes great fluctuations in quality and patient safety is being put under pressure. In the left, we're on the side of the patients. So with a targeted 3-day course for acupuncturers who want to perform needle acupuncture in the chest, we can increase the level of safety of Danish patients, strengthen the level of knowledge so that we can prevent damage to the lungs, raise the level of knowledge about symptoms of collapsed lungs, and, last but not least, ensure that acupuncturers register after the end of course and partake of their competences, so that as a patient you know that your acupuncturer has taken the relevant course. In fact, the second part of the bill is based on a sad background: it is a ban on the construction of artificial virgin membranes. Yeah, honestly, sometimes you get a little doubt about where in the world you live. Women in Denmark have had the right to vote for over 100 years, the sexual emancipation of the 1960s and 1970s has become an important part of history writing, free abortion and sex education are natural things, and that is not something we question, yet here today we are law-making a ban on artificial virgins. What has actually gone wrong since it got there? One must almost say that we have failed with decades of integration, since in today's Denmark there is now a need to legislate against what is almost a medieval way of thinking. For the myth that virginity is a membrane that must be blown up and still gone should be something you lose at your first intercourse, is therefore just a myth that unfortunately thrives in the best way. As sad as it sounds in a free and equal Denmark, there are many young women who must lie to their families and in desperate attempts to live up to a hoax see themselves forced to resort to extremes and have an artificial virgin membrane operated before a wedding, only to deliver a blood stain on the sheet the first night. It's just not okay. It is not right for some women to be so subjected to dogmas, discourses, thinking and social control that lead them to an operating table. In Denmark we women are free, we all have equal opportunities, we decide who we want to marry, who we love, who we have sex with and when, and sex should very much like to be something that is both positive and lovely, something you look forward to, whether you are married or single. You don't get dirty or less because of having sex, you might get a little sweaty at most. So the fear of first marital intercourse must not give rise to wounds on body and soul, nor must it give rise to such a mess of spin and lies. So my message to the young women who are thinking about having such an intervention is crystal clear: "Say away, reach out for help if you need it, for we would like to back you up all the way; stand by who you are, you are free women in a free society. My answer to those who demand red spots on the sheet is also very simple: Stop, therefore, your view of women does not belong here in a modern and free society like the Danish one; we own our own body, and we therefore decide completely who we share it with. Frankly, I think that young women today have enough to look at in a busy everyday life where social media help create unrealistic ideals of body, and the last thing they need is another myth they can blame themselves for. That is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208101640	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208101649	Thank you for that, President. After all, L 141 deals with two parts. The first part deals with the regulation of needle acupuncture on the chest and the second part with a ban on the artificial construction of the hymen. I would already like to announce from the outset that I would like to ask for the legislative proposal to be split into two, both because we have different views on the two parts, but also because it is difficult to see a logical link between the two proposals, in addition to the fact that they both deal with the licensing law. The first part on the regulation of needle acupuncture on the chest is, in a sense, a positive one. We think it is very sensible that the area should now be regulated. Acupuncture is exempted from the licensing law and it has been shown to cause a number of problems in relation to acupuncture on the chest. In particularly unfortunate cases, if the acupuncture is not properly performed, it may lead to puncture of the lung. Therefore, it is essential for patient safety to regulate the area so that healthcare professionals performing acupuncture are aware of the prevention, recognition and management of complications of needle acupuncture on the chest. The draft law has been amended during the consultation phase, so doctors and chiropractors are exempted from the course as they already know about the area. Professional bachelors such as nurses, physiotherapists and midwives need only a one-day course, and finally everyone else needs a 3-day course. On the other hand, we find that problematic. As I said, we support a regulation, but we find it extremely worrying that we can still walk away from the street in principle, take a 3-day course and then be registered with the Patient Safety Agency. We would urge that participants in the course should have at least a medical background similar to the training requirements that apply to the registration system for alternative practitioners, i.e. the rab system. This is an issue that we will pursue in committee. The second part of the bill on the artificial construction of hymen is more complicated. I would like to make it clear straight away that the idea of a hymen or virginity is a myth, a myth that creates great personal problems for the women who are subject to that thinking. The Danish Psychologist Association's hearing answer addresses many of the complex problems arising from this human-repressive performance. For Enhedslisten, it is absolutely essential that we ensure information and information so that the myth of the virgin can be put to death, that the families who are at risk are offered professional and multidisciplinary help consisting, among others, of: gynecologists, psychologists and social workers, that information material be produced for both families and authorised health professionals, that priority be given to research and information activities in the field. If we cannot immediately support a ban, it is because it is uncertain what consequences a ban might have, whether it will put the affected women, who are fortunately estimated to be a very small number, in an even more vulnerable position, whether we may risk that those women who cannot have the intervention here in Denmark will simply go abroad or go to other unauthorized places. However, we find it quite obvious to use this opportunity to have a more thorough discussion of how we should generally deal with culturally related cosmetic interventions. Because it is not only artificial virgins, but it is also about young women who operate both external and inner sex tugs less, an operation which can cause great pain and later complications, and which is also being carried out today in private clinics and, most often, is cosmetic in nature alone. This will often also be the expression of a culturally-conditioned oppressive view of women. We would welcome such a debate where we can discuss how best to counter normative repression, whether it is done through bans, or whether it is done through information and research, or whether it is done in combination. We would urge that we have that debate in committee as an ethical issue. However, this proposal cannot be supported immediately, and we will raise some of the dilemmas raised by the consultation responses in committee so as to ensure that information, information, research and supporting measures become the primary focus of getting rid of the myth of hymen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102122	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. We're gonna take a short break to make it work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102341	At least now there's light in this one). All right, here we go again. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102342	Thank you for that, and it wasn't supposed to take so long, but I would just like to ask the rapporteur a little bit about the other part of the speech, which is about the maiden thing. Because I fully recognise that this is full of ethical dilemmas and that is not a simple matter, and that is why I think we should listen to some of those who work very dedicatedly in this area. There I have a letter that was published in Politiken on November 7, 2018, where Anita Johnson, director of RED Safehouse, who helps women in honor-related conflicts, says about this proposal from the minister: "I can't get my arms down... A ban on the construction of virgin membranes is a very good signal to send. A signal that this premise is not accepted, and now these myths have to be killed once and for all. I would like to ask: how the hell are we going to put this myth down once and for all if we continue to allow an industry that supports the fact that this particular myth lives on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102437	Thank you. I fully agree with Mrs Mette Abildgaard that this is a complex issue. My starting point is that I believe that myths are killed by information and information, and what I miss in that bill is primarily that there is a focus on it. I am aware of the fact that we are talking about strengthening the efforts made in relation to sex education in primary school, but I simply do not have more money allocated to a greater awareness effort in the families affected by this issue, and I think that when we talk about a ban, we are talking about a signal most of all, and that it is about us being able to tell ourselves that we have done something. I think that if we are really going to help the families and women affected by this, it is much more about information than it is about a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102531	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102533	But we have been trying to provide information for a number of years. After all, we have done a great deal to inform you that it is a myth and that only approx. 20% In fact, women end up bleeding during their first intercourse. So I think we've done a lot to enlighten. Does the rapporteur have proposals for new initiatives, further initiatives, in relation to what we are already doing? And can the rapporteur not follow that this will be a tool for women to take to their families and say: this has been banned because it is actually a myth that is not evidence?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102601	Fortunately, in many of the consultations, there are also a number of possibilities for strengthening the awareness-raising effort, which I am among others. I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech about a more multidisciplinary approach. I think that if we really have to solve this problem... what I agree with we should do... then it's about strengthening that effort in terms of information and research in the area so that we can have the myth put to rest. It is precisely with a ban that we risk these women going abroad and having the procedure done, or that it can be done unauthorizedly in clinics in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102638	Thank you. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102641	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I think it seems very paradoxical that the rapporteur is saying that information must be provided in order to get rid of the myth, which we agree with, but at the same time continue this practice. It is therefore a complete confusion of signals, and the people whom this affects will have some difficulty in gaining an ear for their cause in their families and their cultural circles, if practice continues at the same time. It may be a slightly sharp comparison, but it probably corresponds somewhere to the fact that 100 years ago they said: we all don't know what's going on with leeches, but we'd better let it go on for a while, because that's what we usually do. Can the rapporteur not see that there is an indissolubly paradox in the position expressed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102729	I do not think there is an indissolubly paradox, but I think there is a problem in that we will always defend the right of the individual to decide his own body, and here we are talking about an adult person who can make a decision. Then it is clear that there is a problem behind it about social control. But when we talk about bans, it is of course a question of punishing a health care professional who carries out an act on an individual who comes in and asks for something to be done. There I think we need to make a clear distinction between what we regulate through legislation and what we regulate through information and information. I believe that if we are to try to help the women who are in this situation, we must do so primarily through information and information and by providing support for those women who may have been placed in a situation where they may be subjected to social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102817	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102819	I don't think I got much smarter. Because let's assume that you have a reactionary world view and that you're actually trying to pressure your daughters into being honorable in this old-fashioned view, then you're gonna keep the daughters in this world picture, if you have the opportunity, and if society signals that this operation is still possible. Somewhere the final showdown, we can call it, against this myth and this custom in these environments is taken, and apparently information has not worked so far. So I simply do not see what kind of future the rapporteur is imagining where this could be put to the test and where a ban could be replaced. I simply find that difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102911	Fortunately, as the consultations have shown, there is still room for further efforts on information and prevention in relation to this issue. I think the basic question to ask is: how do we help these women best? And if they live in an environment where they want to have such an intervention, it does not solve the problem, whether they have it done unauthorizedly in Denmark or they have it done abroad. That doesn't solve the problem. In this way, we do not support the women who are under that pressure. We do this alone by giving them the opportunity to say that this is wrong. There is health research and there are opportunities to learn that this is a myth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102950	Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208102957	I'll be honest and admit that I'm a little surprised at Enhedslisten's attitude to this bill. It is as if one simply did not have the courage to tackle the root of the nettle and then wrap it up in that now one would like to discuss only information, information and again information. Does the rapporteur not recognise that we are doing boats and boats? Specifically in this legislative proposal, it is a ban, but we are also doing all sorts of things forward-looking with information, and the rapporteur must surely recognise that it is a matter of doing both.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103034	In other words, what has been proposed here in the proposal is merely a ban. Little is written in the proposal that efforts should be stepped up in primary school in relation to sex education, but no further funding will be provided for any of these initiatives, which are also described in the consultation responses. So when you read the answers to the hearings, I think that there is a picture among the interested parties that this is a major dilemma. And we have to note that most of the interested parties are very critical of the introduction of a ban. At any rate, I attach great importance to the consultation answer that has come from the Danish Psychologist Association, which I think very well describes the dilemmas that will be and also that imposing a ban can be oppressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103121	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103122	I do not think anyone doubts that this is a dilemma, but it is covered in the bill that only a ban is mentioned. The rapporteur has been in politics for so long that he knows that sex education is not regulated by a bill like this, but that it is actually something that happens under the auspices of the Minister of Education. And the focus that has been fixed on it is also very much helping to raise the information part. But something else is: What about the health professionals? What about the gynecologists? What responsibility do they bear if a ban is not imposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103159	The consultation answers from both gynecologists and obstetrics do not recommend a ban, and they do not, because they say, on the one hand, that there are no immediate complications in the procedure and, on the other hand, that there is a great deal of concern about the situation in which these women will be placed if they adopt a ban, in other words that they will be pushed into an even more precarious position. That is why both the gynecologists and the obstetrics object to imposing a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103228	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We move on to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103237	Thank you. It has been estimated that there is a risk associated with treatment on the chest with needle acupuncture and it is therefore proposed to require a course for persons performing this treatment. However, this requirement does not apply to doctors, chiropractors or persons performing acupuncture as part of a public hospital treatment. This part of the bill is designed to improve patient safety, and in the Liberal Alliance, we are always concerned with high patient safety. The second part of the bill is about banning so-called reconstruction of an artificial virginia. It is quite absurd that this is happening at all and that one can call it a reconstruction is also in itself an erroneous term. You can't reconstruct something that's never been. So if you're finally gonna talk about it, it's gotta be a construction. But many, including myself, have thought that there was a virgin membrane. I was actually quite surprised when I was told it doesn't exist and never existed. I knew that far from all women are bleeding at first intercourse, but I have learned that it is because for many women the virgin is blown up before, for example. by sports activities. But that it did not exist at all, I was actually quite surprised to get acquainted with, and I really do not understand how it is possible to deceive as many people into an enlightened society as ours. But whether it had existed or not, it is quite unacceptable that male-dominated societies should decide that a woman should not have sex before she gets married. Besides the unfairness of it, I do not understand how it is practically possible for men to have sex before marriage, but that women should not. Who are these men gonna have sex with? If they are not allowed to have it with single women, there are only married women left, and neither are they. So how is this really practical? But not only do men want to decide that women do not have the same rights to personal freedom as men themselves. Women are also being punished very hard. They can be disfellowshiped, beaten or even killed. So when they ask to have an artificial virgin membrane implanted, which they have never had, they do it not out of desire, but out of fear. It is therefore something they feel compelled to do and therefore the possibility should not be present. The men and the communities that make women feel compelled to have an artificial virgin membrane implanted, which has never existed, must be informed and informed of women's anatomy and taught that no women are born with a virgin membrane, and, furthermore, they must learn to respect women's equality, the right to personal freedom and the right to their own body. Such are the values in Denmark in the 21st century, and so it should be in the rest of the world. Therefore, the WHO has also been contacted to draw attention to the problem, and in Denmark the Danish Health Authority will ensure that all words and concepts are updated according to the new knowledge. I also believe that the sex education of schools should be adapted to new knowledge. And then we must do everything we can to help and protect those women who are afraid of honour-related violence or killing. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103629	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208103641	Thank you. As the other rapporteurs have said, this draft law consists of two parts. In relation to the first part, needless acupuncture, we agree that when you can get as wrong as some have come, in relation to, for example, sticking needles in the chest is good and important for you to get a course on how to avoid it. So we are positive about that. I would like to spend a little more time on the second part of the proposal, which is somewhat different and which we have heard is about the fact that an artificial virgin membrane can be operated. If you google the word virgin, you will find, for example. a text explaining: In most and especially patriarchal societies, female chastity and virginity have been highly appreciated. Girls are divided into two groups, the virgins who were married and those who were not married. The virginity of the bride could be attested by a premarital ceremony where virginity was examined and found intact and/or by an inspection and display of the bedding the day after the wedding to prove virginity by blood trails after broken virginity. That's the way you explain this with virginity in historical terms. If you look at the website ethnicung.dk, you can see that they have a page called facts about virginity, and that shows the examples of what they are asked a lot about, i.e. the typically asked questions. Some of the headlines that are here where they have gathered the questions are: Can a man judge whether a woman is a virgin when you have sex because a virgin is more tight? Do all women bleed the first time they have sex? Will I bleed on the wedding night if I have surgery? Can the doctor see if I still have my virginity? Underneath the point: Will I bleed on the wedding night if I have an operation? Says in reply: An operation is no guarantee of a hemorrhage the first time you have sex again. Moreover, the operation does not provide a new virginity, but just a few stitches in the vagina to narrow the vagina. The aim is that narrowing should increase the possibility that a bleeding occurs when narrowing occurs next time the woman has sex. I do not think there is anyone who disagrees about this issue, that it is completely crazy and unreasonable that somebody should expose themselves to an operation where some stitches are made to hope that it bleeds, to hope that some people believe that you are a virgin. So I hope there are no differences of opinion about that here today, and I do not think there are any differences of opinion about the fact that it is simply not okay that you can get too many thousand crowns to have an operation that makes the woman bleed by intercourse for a reason that is not even the one you say, so it is not even because you have an implanted a virginia, you get just some stitches. You could also buy an artificial virgin film for DKK 300-400, where you put something in, and then some liquid comes out that seems like you're bleeding. This is completely insane. What we have done is to look at the various answers to the hearings, and I take note of the fact that, for example: Danish Nursing Council supports the proposal that Immigrant Medical Clinic supports the proposal. What the Danish Nursing Council says is that they consider it crucial that information about facts is given in general and support opportunities for those girls who get into problems as a result of religious and cultural perceptions. Danish Nursing Council believes that the procedure should be banned in all cases, since the council cannot find any medical reasons for constructing an artificial hymen, that we have the right to our own body and also the right not to have to prove anything to your future husband or in-laws, and that you are worth no less because you have had a sex life before the wedding. The Institute for Human Rights recommends that the draft law sets out more precisely how the level of training of professionals and the change of social education of young people will contribute to the myth of the earth. We would also recommend that you focus on this and that you are more explicit about how we can get this myth to the ground, because that is really needed, that is, there is a real need for an effort to be made so that we didn't have to have this bill at all. It can be said that it would be better if the intervention were not requested at all, and that is what we must ensure it is not, but so far it is in demand, and until we reach where it is not requested any more, we therefore support this proposal because we believe that we can help maintain a myth if we do not say no to this. So we say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104205	Thank you. There are no comments. The next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104214	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to start by pointing out that the government once again confuses two very different proposals when choosing to address two such different issues in the same legislative proposal. It just doesn't make sense. Actually, I think it's a little bit irresponsible. I think that these are two important debates that need to be taken, just as I would like to do separately, so I would actually like to start by asking for the proposal to be split into two. In relation to the proposal to make requirements for treatment with needle acupuncture on the chest, we in the SF believe that it is essential that the practitioner has a comprehensive knowledge of preventing, recognising and dealing with complications that could occur during treatment on the chest. Acupuncture on the chest is not safe, and as the bill also shows, several people have been injured over time after needle acupuncture treatment, especially on the chest, and in some cases it has also been fatal. In the SF we do not believe that it makes sense that persons without authorisation can carry out this kind of treatment, even though they have completed the government's proposed course. It is important for us that the practitioners have the competence to prevent, recognise and manage any damage that may occur to the lungs after needle acupuncture treatment. The SF believes that patient safety must come first, which is why we cannot immediately support the government's proposal. In relation to the second proposal made by the government here on the construction of an artificial virginia, we also have our reports in the SF. We may be concerned about what a sanctioned ban on the construction of an artificial virgin can cause problems for the individual woman. We agree that it is a problem that women today can have an artificial virgin membrane constructed on the basis of a myth. Having said that, however, a ban is not without problems either. With a ban on the construction of an artificial virgin membrane, we risk that women will attach very great importance to this intact virgin membrane, which then does not exist, and will instead look elsewhere for the intervention without sufficient medical skills. In SF, like many other parties in the Folketing, we are interested in breaking the myth of the intact virgin membrane before first intercourse, but we are in doubt whether a ban is the right solution. We need to understand that a ban can have serious, negative consequences for the individual, and that is why we believe that we should also think in other ways as a minimum, which is better for the individual woman. That is why we, like the Danish Regions, are proposing that we should instead make an extra effort to ensure a broad public awareness, just as we also believe that we should ensure an offer to women about conversation, information and support. We believe that targeted information is a better tool for tackling the problems, but should I not mention in this context that also parent generation and perhaps in particular future husbands could be in the target group for such conversations. I do not think that the many answers to the hearings have made it easy to take a final position. On the one hand, this is an operation, and that is never without risk, and then even on the basis of a myth. It speaks for a ban. But what about other cosmetic operations? On the other hand, in the consultation answers there is concern about the safety of women in environments where people believe that this virginia exists, and that does not argue for a ban. In fact, I believe that I will support some of what the rapporteur of the Left also said: "Dear woman and virgin, the hand does not exist, and it is far from all women who are bleeding at the first intercourse, but dear family and future spouse, get it now. Because it's at least as important when we have to decide on this issue. I believe that there is a need for further discussion of the two dilemmas and would really ask that we should have a more detailed discussion in a committee of the ethical dilemmas arising from a genuine ban, but also an opportunity to look at alternatives, because it is not the case that the SF does not believe that this is a problem that we should try to highlight and resolve. We are not sure that this is the right solution found in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104647	Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104649	In other words, I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur allows himself to doubt. Then I consider it as if there could potentially be a little hope, because then you can use the second and third treatments and the time between trying to convince SF to support us making this ban. Because it is not the case that because you go in and make a ban in this area, it has to be immediately per. definition be a discussion about all sorts of other constructions. This is so mythical and so disgusting in every way, so the recommendation to support it. But I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur: what responsibility does SF, for example, have in relation to the part dealing with information?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104731	Thank you. It's actually a big responsibility. I felt a little inspired by Mrs. Mette Abildgaard's question to Mr. Peder Hvelplund earlier, because I really think we should try to put an end to an industry that wants to make money from a myth. I would like to endorse that criticism. I think it is unspeakable that a private health industry can afford to carry out such an operation and therefore also think that the private medical sector has a big, professional problem of explanation; perhaps the real culprit is that doctors make such an intervention on the basis of a myth at all and do not help inform the woman that it is simply too stupid and actually not right and that what they do on the woman does not hold up the anatomy and the physiology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104827	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104829	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I have to say that I think it is a little paradoxical when the rapporteur says that information is the way to get rid of the myth, while at the same time keeping the back door open for surgery, if I may say so, to get rid of it, I am just about to say "easy" way; I am well aware that it is of course not for those concerned. But there's still a way out. And, as I think I mentioned earlier in the debate, it is a question of credibility. In other words, does the rapporteur consider it credible that, on the one hand, we want to inform in a particular direction, because we know what is the objective truth, but, on the other hand, we also accept a myth-maintaining intervention? I don't really think that makes any sense. The second point was in a small addition where the rapporteur mentioned that we should look at what alternatives there were. What alternatives does the rapporteur have in mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208104924	So there are several interested parties who actually point out that there are alternatives. I don't think it's easy. So I do not think it is a paradox not to have taken a final position. However, I would like to reserve the right to discuss the ethical dilemmas that may exist in committee, because the ban affects a woman who is right in her resolution alone. It is not the case that she is going around discussing it with all sorts of others before she has the procedure. She'll get it done in secret. So the only ones you benefit are, in fact, the parents who have some expectations of a woman on the wedding night or the spouse for that matter. I think that is a paradox. But in reality, I think that the really great sinner is the doctors who are doing this procedure, which is based on a myth. In fact, I think that the great sinners are the ones who allow themselves to make money from this myth, because they have the opportunity of having a discussion about it with women, they have the opportunity to put the myth down when they are in contact with women. Because women don't necessarily go to help themselves. This is pretty secretive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105032	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105033	It's just a subtly remark: Well, if it's those who make the procedure that are the great sinners, then with a ban you will be able to quickly put those sinners out of action, and at the same time it would effectively give rise to the fact that within these environments you were told that well this is a hoax. That is also why I am perhaps a little disappointed by the rapporteur's uncertainty about what is actually going to be supported. Of course, I believe that a ban is the only way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105104	There should be no doubt that we in the SF want this myth to be put to death. We will do everything we can to prevent women from subjecting themselves to this procedure because they are subject to some kind of social control. However, it should not be necessary to legislate that you, as a doctor, at least take your medical promise seriously and do not carry out interventions that are actually based on a myth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105129	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105133	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur really thinks that doctors are the real culprits. I mean, for me, the real sinners are the men and the cultures that force these women to have these interventions done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105151	Well they can also get a song along the way of the SF, but nevertheless some are still doing the procedure, which is unnecessary because it is based on a myth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105204	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105207	The rapporteur splits it up and says: well, the places that offer this service are the real villains. But then I think that they are both, because they are market forces. Well, if you can offer something in a legal market, I guess someone will offer it when it's a legal product, you might say. Isn't that just market forces? Doesn't it help if it was illegal? If so, some of those who offer it will be prevented from offering it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105243	Well, that's also why we in the SF think that those market forces are playing badly with health and also with the health sector in general. I mean, I felt very inspired by Mrs Mette Abildgaard and just the focus on the fact that the medical industry also has a responsibility here. A medical vow has been made. This is a prerequisite for allowing you to do the procedure at all. It is a risky operation; although it is said to be a small risk, it is still a risky operation. In general, I do not think that people should be cut if there is no medical justification for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105324	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105327	Well, I can agree that market forces and health aren't always a really good cocktail. However, we cannot hope for the abolition of market forces this morning. So I'm thinking until there's no demand, because I guess that's what we're all after and until we've done all these things with information and advice, etc. We want that demand not to be there at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105404	In fact, I think they should have taken the initiative themselves. Because it is a crazy intervention because it does not make sense and because you are telling someone that it is a proper intervention. I think that is a problem. However, having said that, I would like to say that the SF would very much like to stop demand and that the SF would really like to ensure so much information, so that we are all aware that there is no virgin membrane and that it is not normal that we necessarily bleed in connection with the first intercourse. We would like to send that signal both to future spouses, to parents and to others who exercise social control, and we would very much like to do so in a way that we also protect women at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105440	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105442	I mean, I really care that the SF stands and says that the real sinners are the ones who are doing these interventions, and not those who are putting pressure on these women to live up to completely outdated standards, and are putting these women under social pressure and maybe even potentially resorting to physical coercion against them if they do not. Can we not agree quite that it is the medieval culture and the medieval view of women that is the real sinner, and not those who make an intervention that can potentially free these women from social coercion and potential physical coercion?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105527	I think it's both. So, I agree that those who exercise social control with a medieval view of how women should behave and are, moreover, expected to bleed in connection with a wedding night are also sinners in this context. But can we not also agree that a ban on the construction of an artificial virginia does not affect those who exercise social control, but only those who exercise social control. It's not like the family's gonna come looking for this artificial virginia. After all, it is the woman who does so for fear of being subjected to social control. I don't care if it's the woman alone about this procedure, and she goes to the doctor alone for this procedure. And thus the doctor also has the absolute opportunity to have this conversation with the woman and perhaps also with a future spouse, if it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105625	Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105626	It's turning things upside down. Those who are sinners are the ones who create the fear that the rapporteur is talking about. They are the real sinners. It is the medieval culture and the medieval view of women that creates this demand in these women. We must be able to agree on that. It is because of medieval culture and the medieval view of women that this demand exists at all. So that's the real sinner. We must be able to agree on that. It is the real sinner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105702	It is the real sinner, and the doctor who allows himself to perform a procedure in which someone is told that he has constructed a so-called virgin membrane also has a great responsibility. But we can't agree on that too, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that the real sinners, like Mr. Joachim B. Olsen here points out that they're not the ones we're punishing with this bill? It is only women who are afraid of the social control that is being exercised against them that we are punishing with this bill. I would like to stress that the SF is in doubt about how we feel about this proposal. We think there are ethical dilemmas that need to be discussed, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to do so during committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105746	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208105754	Thank you. I am glad that I just got on the floor before market forces were completely abolished this morning! I will, of course, also deal with both elements of this draft law, but I will start with the discussion which actually ended the previous rapporteur's round of discussions, namely the discussion between Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Because there is no doubt that those who bear the responsibility are the men and, unfortunately, also women who are helping to create a culture that has created this myth. And I think we should be careful not to judge the doctors too harshly, because I also understand that they are in an ethical dilemma. I understand that the doctor who finds that a woman comes to him and says that she is deadly afraid of her wedding night that she crashed on a bicycle when she was a teenager, and is afraid that on her wedding night, when she is lying there, blood doesn't show up feeling a need to help that woman. Of course he must at the same time tell her that it is a myth that it should be so at all, but I also understand the situation from his point of view. That then there is an industry that makes money from this, I do not think there is any need, and I will come back to that later. But let me start, as it were, above the belt, with the chest, in relation to the first part of the legislative proposal, which, of course, also needs to be commented on. There we in the Conservative People's Party fully support the introduction of these requirements for the training of those who carry out this treatment and who do not already have medical training. I was very surprised when I first heard that it didn't take a license to perform acupuncture. It came as a surprise to me, and I think it actually does for many Danes. And then it is very, very logical to me that when you perform the most risky type of acupuncture, on your chest, you obviously need to have a knowledge of what it can bring about by consequences and how to act, if that happens. So, of course, we fully support that part. We do the same for the second part of the bill, but for the love of it is a difficult ethical dilemma. We just have to admit this here in the Folketing sometimes when we are dealing with something that is incredibly difficult. In my world, we stand, so to speak, with the choice between solving this short-term or solving the long-term. When you go in and allow these constructions of virginia, you solve the problem short-sightedly, you solve the problem for the individual woman in the current situation; she gets out of her predicament. And I sympathize that you want to solve the short-term, but if we're gonna get rid of this, if we're gonna get rid of this problem and make sure this myth doesn't continue to exist, we're gonna have to solve the problem long-term, and I think we best do that by introducing this ban. But I also recognise that it will mean that some women will find themselves in a situation where they wish they could have this structure. And, of course, we must ensure that there are some offers for them. We need to ensure that there are shelters they can get to if they need it. We must ensure that there is psychotherapy, that there can be mediation in the family if there are conflicts. Of course we must ensure that. But in my world, it's a choice between solving this short-term for the individual right now and solving the long-term with a break with this myth. There is no doubt that when that happens today, it is because there is social and cultural pressure, and we have a responsibility to do so. I have seen that there are many different opinions in the hearings. I have seen that the Ethnic Council has had time to comment on this matter. And I have also seen that there are such very ultraliberals who say: 'Well, there is no difference between this and, for example, whether a woman will have operated on larger breasts'. It is also an intervention that is without such a medical purpose. But in my world, there is a difference between operating to avoid something or achieving something. If a woman has surgery bigger breasts, she does so because it's a wish she actively has to get some big, handsome breasts, and it's her own choice. When an artificial membrane is operated in, you do it to avoid anything; then you do it to avoid condemnation from the family. And it is not a positive option; it is a fear that we are acting on. So in my world, there's a difference between doing it to avoid something or to achieve something in relation to this freedom issue. We recognize in the Conservative People's Party that this is an ethical dilemma. There are no easy answers, but, as I have said, we believe that we are resolving the problem in the long term with this bill and that that is what must be the right thing to do politically. That is why we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110221	Thank you. There are a few questions, comments, and that is first Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110233	Thank you. From here, communication seems to work, because there's at least light in the lamp here. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good and nuanced speech. I would like to address the issue of resolving both in the short and long term. I understand the need to have the urge to do something now, and that is what the ban does, but, as the rapporteur himself says, it does not solve the problem for any of the women who are currently in the situation, and I see no other option than to solve this problem in the long term and in the short term, it is about being able to provide better opportunities so that the creation of an artificial virginia will not be the least difficult choice for them to make. It is, of course, a question of extending their options so that they really have an alternative, and I find it difficult to see a ban doing so, because it simply means that we can go elsewhere and get it done, whereas if information, information and supportive action are strengthened, as the rapporteur himself has said, then we are actually giving these women a real alternative to this intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110339	I don't think it's either-or, for me it's both-and. Of course, we must continue to enlighten and go through the path of enlightenment in order to fight this myth, but I regret that the gallery is not packed with people today, and that the cameras are not just spinning, that is to say, beyond Parliament's television, because I wish there was massive coverage of this to have a social debate on this. If TV 2 News was breaking on the fact that the Folketing is now forbidding this to end a myth, then I believe that we would go further with this message than we have been able to do over the past many years. So I think that we who now support this should go out and tell us very actively about it to help tell us why we're doing this, and we're doing that to break down a myth. But I agree that it is not either or it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110421	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110425	At any rate, I can say that I fully agree with that. If I am going to point out something positive about this bill, it is primarily the fact that the debate is now coming up and we have the opportunity to break down the myth that there is a virginia and that it is something that women must have a myth that has created a market for this whole industry to be here. However, I would very much like to keep the rapporteur firmly in mind that we must make a stronger effort to ensure information and prevention of this, and I think, fortunately, that there are a lot of initiatives in the consultation answers to strengthen that effort, and I hope that this debate will also be raised now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110502	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110505	I think it is fine with all the proposals on how we can strengthen the information, and there is no doubt that we should make it targeted in those environments where this issue is the greatest. So I think we should also accept the proposals that have been made and see what can be done. But for me, it's about getting a very clear signal that when we ban this, it's because it's a myth that doesn't have time on earth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110528	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110537	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and for his support. The rapporteur talks about the difference between avoiding and achieving. And I am actually in favour of women's image and liberation, for example, of breast enlargement. is to achieve something. However, I am curious to know whether the rapporteur also believes that it can and is culturally conditional on us having an over-executed culture which is pushing us into some gender stereotypes, and that there can also be many people who do not make an entirely enlightened or voluntary choice when, for example, they have a breast-enhancing operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110618	It wasn't exactly a discussion I expected to have today... is it part of an overexecuted culture that women choose to have larger breasts operated on? I just don't know. I think women have their free choice to have bigger breasts operated on, if that's what they want to do, I don't have any evidence to say either. My example served the purpose of saying that the two things cannot be equated because the woman does not achieve anything valuable by having this operation except that she avoids the condemnation of the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110647	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110650	Thank you. And that is precisely the condemnation or the look from the outside, which is interesting when we talk about the image of women today, in the 21st century, because how much is culturally and normatively conditional? We ourselves have tabled a motion for a resolution, which will come on in March, which is precisely about the need for us to dress teachers so that we too, men and all of us, can make a positive contribution to freeing women from a patriarchal standard culture, from which the virgins are also derived.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110724	It's rare I run out of words, but I barely know what to say. It is not really my impression that there is today a huge stigmatisation of women with smaller breasts. On the contrary, I am more likely to experience the reverse, i.e. that women who have very large breasts can be stigmatised against that background. It is not something I have personal or intellectual experience with in any way, so I think I stick to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110743	Thank you. And then I think we need to get back to what the bill is about. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110756	Thank you. I now think there is a wealth of operations where you can discuss whether it is being done now because you want to look better or whether you do it because you think you are wrong or that you are afraid that you do not live up to expectations. And the question, as I believe Mr. Peder Hvelplund also mentioned, i.e. the thing about having the sex tugs operated less, for example, is also because you may feel wrong. So there might well be other areas where you could also say: does that make sense? However, I would also like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur himself mentioned in an earlier question: should we not really control a private industry, a medical industry which tells people that they can actually construct something that does not exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110841	I do not think it is the industry that is telling people that they are constructing something that does not exist. I simply do not believe it in industry. I believe that industry is helping people who feel in a very difficult situation. Of course, they have a responsibility to inform those women, but those women know very well these things... the vast majority of them do... but they still have a patriarchal family that holds onto another culture and that doesn't recognise the facts that lie in this area. So I think it is wrong to give responsibility to those who carry out what is legal today. We are responsible here politically for making it legal, and that is what we are discussing today. In principle, however, I do not think there is any reason why there should be an industry that makes a lot of money on something that serves no purpose other than maintaining a myth about a virginia.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110925	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110929	Nevertheless, the draft law is about banning it; it is also about the industry, because it is not immediately public doctors who are doing this procedure. So I think that it is also an ethical discussion that some people have made money out of doing a job where they could have just said that it is not necessary, because it does not exist. It is an intervention that is meaningless, which they do and for which they are also taking money. Does the rapporteur not also consider that the industry has a very great responsibility here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208110956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208111000	I think it's important that we stick to the fact that the only people responsible for this case are those who are helping to maintain the myth of this virginia and expect their female family members to have blood on the sheet. They're the ones in charge. Industry reacts within the framework of legislation. We're changing them now, and they're gonna have to stick to it. That's what I think it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208111017	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more comments, and that is why it is the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208111026	Thank you for your comments on the draft law, which, as some of the rapporteurs have said, contains two very different things, but both things relate to the licensing law. I have no problem if the parliamentary committee wants it to be split up in relation to the later vote. After all, needle acupuncture on the chest potentially involves a fatal complication in the form of collapse of one or both lungs. Several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned that in the worst cases patients have lost their lives as a result of treatment. A collapse of a lung may also cause the patient to experience difficulty in breathing and a great deal of discomfort and that symptoms of this kind need to be corrected and that you need to have contact with a doctor immediately afterwards. Today there is no regulation of needle acupuncture, including that on the chest, which can have very major consequences for the individual. This means that today everyone can perform needle acupuncture, also on the chest. With the bill, we have tried to qualify the group performing needle acupuncture on the chest, which is why we propose with the bill that doctors and chiropractors and persons performing acupuncture on the chest as part of public hospital treatment, without any additional requirements, can continue to perform needle acupuncture on the chest. Others should only perform needle acupuncture on the chest in the forward direction if they have completed a training course in preventing, recognizing and handling damage to the lungs. The primary purpose of the course is for participants in it to be trained to be aware of symptoms that the patient's lung has collapsed either prior to, during or after treatment. It will be the Board of Patient Safety, which, with the proposal, will keep and publish a list of the practitioners who have completed the course, and it is also proposed that the practitioner inform patients that he or she has completed the course, for example. on its website or by hanging the course certificate in the waiting room. Finally, it is proposed that the person carrying out needle acupuncture on the chest, contrary to the training requirement, should be punishable by a fine. I understand that there are also a number of issues in general relating to the legislation on acupuncture, and I have also heard a request from some of the rapporteurs that we should take a broader approach. We are happy to take that discussion from the government. We think that this is a discussion that could run alongside this bill. This bill has been in the pipeline for a long time, because the models that have been searched so far, for example. to make it medically reserved, like was not the way to go. So the legislative proposal is also based on work on how to prevent such damage, which we have unfortunately seen examples of, from occurring in the future. The second part of the bill, which concerns the ban on the construction of artificial hymen, has also given rise to quite a lot of debate in this Chamber. I have to say that some of the debate may actually surprise me a little, at least in relation to the comparison of some parties. I do not think it can be compared in any way to having an operation with the magnification of breasts with the procedure we are talking about, with the reconstruction of artificial hymen, where a surgical procedure is carried out in the woman's abdomen. I do not think it can be compared with each other. I therefore agree with the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. Roger Courage Matthisen, in that there may also be people who feel encouraged to have to live up to a certain beauty ideal and body ideal in some areas, but I think we are talking about a difference in nature. Because we are not talking about people who live in freedom and who are subjected to an oppressive myth and who are at risk of being killed or beaten by their family as a result of a medieval myth. That is why I really think it is important that we also stick to what this debate is all about. It is very much about a virginia as something that jumps at first intercourse, is a myth, and we need in Denmark in 2019 and in the world for that matter to get rid of the myth that helps to keep women in a oppressive situation that contributes to social control and is such a grip that, in a medieval way, helps to create a picture that women are some innocent beings who must not have sex with anyone before their marriage. We also have an obligation to take that discussion. In some cultures it is very important for the woman and the family as a whole that the virgin is intact before the wedding night, and that is why, unfortunately, we also see in Denmark some women who feel compelled to build artificial hymens. But this myth about the virgin is an expression of a repressive and extremely outdated view of women, which I do not think we should support by allowing surgical interventions by health professionals in Denmark. No public treatment facilities are performing the procedure. It has also been a journey, because if you take the debate that also raised questions in the Danish Parliament just over 10 years ago, it was the case that there was public support from some municipalities for this intervention. So fortunately things have moved on, but we also have to push this debate further so that women do not feel pressured to have an intervention in the abdomen as a result of a medieval myth. Every year there are girls in Denmark who visit private clinics to build a virgin membrane. I think that this is a relationship with which we, as a society, have to deal, and I also think it is very, very important that we, as a society, should reject it. If we are to support those women who feel pressured, are under social control and live in families where we do not have the option of being able to choose for ourselves who you want to love and be allowed to spend your life with or how you have to live your life, then it is important that we say what we will not accept so that we do not make it the individual woman's fight against the family, against the system and against the myth, but so that we, as a society, also say from what we will not accept. I understand well, and there are also several rapporteurs who have mentioned this when I read some of the hearing answers, that there are doctors who say that there may be good intentions to take action in order to remedy the situation of women here and now. But it is just not an acceptable or sustainable solution. For this reason, I do not believe that we in Denmark should accept that there are families who, based on the myth of virginity, control women's bodies and who maintain them from a medieval and very women's oppressive view. I do not think that we should be helping to legitimise the possibility of a surgical procedure to create an artificial virginic membrane which has never existed and thus has a part to play in maintaining a myth. This is among other things. the background to the draft law we are discussing today, which is not alone. That is why it is absolutely right for a number of the rapporteurs and also the hearings to point out that this should never be left alone. No, it must never be alone. We must both modernise the language we have about women's bodies and protect women from social control from their surroundings. When we continue to use a word as a virgin, as we have done in this debate, we are helping to reproduce misunderstandings and myths. That was also the reason why the then Minister for Gender Equality, today the rapporteur of the Left on the matter, and the Minister for Development and myself sent a call to the WHO to end the myth. That is also why I and we, as a government, have taken the initiative, for example, to: The Danish Health Service and our other official agencies do not use a term as a virgin. Because it helps to support that we have a language that like maintains that you are a virgin and that there is a membrane that needs to jump. That is why, in our language too, we must start to talk about hymen and use the latest knowledge and language development so that we do not maintain a gender stereotyped image. This is also true in relation to educational institutions where there is a job of dressing midwives, nurses and doctors for the information task that lies in not being involved in reproducing a myth and in informing and educating the factual conditions of women's natural body conditions and anatomy and thus also helping to combat erroneous perceptions and myths. That is why we have already taken initiatives to ensure information and training for professionals, and we are also happy to discuss how we can further support in relation to sex education that we ensure proper information so that we can contribute to the meth of the earth. We must also never forget that there will continue to be a need for professional advice and guidance for young women who feel pressured to show a blood stain on the sheet after the wedding night. I think that is something that I also see as a broad support for among the consultation parties. I can also say a little about some of what has been said. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative rapporteur, read out quotes from the RED Safehouse, which is, of course, very much where there are women, girls who live in oppressive conditions and who have the desire to break with the social control they experience. I will repeat what they said about it. Anita Johnson, director of the RED Safehouse and in this context also spoke on behalf of the Ethnic Youth and Centre for Honorary Conflicts, said: "I can't get my arms down. A ban on the construction of virgin membranes is a very good signal to send. A signal that this premise is not accepted, and now these myths have to be killed once and for all... I also noted that Halime Oguz, who is a parliamentary candidate for the SF, and who has written a post in one of the newspapers, also described it in relation to her own situation, and I quote: "I remember how nervous I myself was when in my early teens I fell down on the bicycle frame and bled, and I dared not tell anyone, but went with fear for several years until I got married. What if I didn't deliver blood on the sheet on the wedding night? What would be the consequences for me? Would I get kicked out of my new home? And would people call me a whore? All these questions spaced in my head. ▪ Further down in the article it says: "In this light, a ban on virginity reconstructions will, in my view, strengthen the girls to refrain from all this hypocrisy. But a ban should not be left alone. We must also support these girls in their stand against this humiliation. It is just to say that I fully recognise the dilemmas in this, but I also believe that as a society we have an obligation to speak up for the girls and take the fight on their behalf. Because if we just blindly legitimize that you have reconstructed an artificial hymen, and signal that it's quite okay to do a surgical procedure in women's abdomen, so you can make this myth live on, then I don't really think we're taking the fight on behalf of the girls. That is why I think it is important, as both the midwife association and the Danish Nursing Council highlight in their hearing answer, and as Immigrant Medical Clinic at Hvidovre Hospital points out, that this is also about ensuring that as a society we are helping to put an end to a myth that maintains girls in a oppressive situation and that helps to create social control that means that you cannot live the life you want and that you do not have the freedom to love the one you love and that you as a woman have to live up to some other ideals, prejudices and ideas than if you are a boy. I do not think that is in line with a Danish equal society in 2019. That is why I welcome the support that has been shown for the legislative proposal, but I also hope that we can send out a clear signal together that it is not a myth we want to reproduce and live on in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112313	Thank you. There are some comments. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112319	Thank you. Thank you, too, for some very fine answers and for the initiatives that have already been taken both in relation to the WHO and the Health Authority, and it is also an appeal that we cleanse the language of a concept that does not exist. I think that is a fine initiative. I fully share the Minister's view that this medieval view of women must be abolished once and for all. But I was also listening to the Minister himself saying that it should not be the struggle of the individual woman, but that is exactly what makes me think that it is a little bit awkward simply to make a ban. That is why I really think that the idea of trying to think some of the other themes in too might be a good idea. In fact, I think that it is the men that we should focus our energies on when we are going to have a myth killed, because it is not the case that women choose these operations if it is not precisely because some others have the impression that they are wrong if they do not bleed on a wedding night. So could it be imagined that the proposal would be supplemented by something that is targeted at men and families, which is, after all, the cause of this whole dilemma?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112437	At least I took note of the debate that took place earlier between Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and Mrs Mette Abildgaard and the SF rapporteur, where I have to say that I fully agree with my colleagues from the Conservative and Liberal Alliance about who is responsible for this matter. They're the ones who help suppress girls and women, they're the ones who keep this myth alive, and we need to focus on that. That is also what the government is dealing with with a large number of the initiatives we have taken to put an end to the social control which unfortunately is taking place. The real victims are the girls, and that's also why we shouldn't make this the fight of each girl. I just have to say that if, as a society, we think it is quite okay that you can go and have an artificial hymen constructed, because that is the picture that is that that is what it is necessary to do, that is to say, that you have to undergo surgery in the abdomen, because otherwise you cannot live up to family doctrines, then I do not think we are helping the individual woman. Then I think that we are making it the individual woman's struggle and making it an individual discussion, instead of we also collectively taking responsibility, in relation to what we will accept in a society such as the Danish one. That is why I think it is important, also in order to put the myth to rest, that we should also make a ban on the construction of artificial hymen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112547	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112550	I would just like to point out that, for me, it is not a question of whether the myth should be put to death either. For me, it is a question of whether the chicken or the egg came first. That is why I would just like to stress that in this way I share my party colleague, Halime Oguz,'s description of how much fear there is. I just have one question for the Minister: does the bill in any way give the men or families a responsibility for abolishing this myth, or do we risk, as some of the consultation parties also say, that some of the women are going to be in a situation where they do not get the help they need and where they are going to fight for this alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112642	I think that we, as a society, are extremely concerned if we do not want to say clearly and clearly in structural terms, through legislation and through initiatives, what we will accept and will not accept. If we are to have the myth of a virgin film blown up at first intercourse killed, then we also have to do structuralally and consistently with those who are helping to reproduce it. And there I agree with SF's candidate for parliament Halime Oguz, who in a speech in Berlingske also says that it lies in the whole idea of virginity reconstructions: by closing our eyes to these we are really helping to keep an entire industry going, the sole purpose of which is to maintain the nice facade building on an illusion of purity and pristineness. And that's what we're gonna do about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112726	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112730	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech and comments before. I am sorry if I derailed the debate in relation to this deeply damaging myth and how it affects the liberation of women. Because that was definitely not my intention. In fact, I was just responding to the Conservative rapporteur's reference to avoiding or achieving something. Because I mean, the fact that we're having a fight with this virgin reconstruction isn't a fight with the patriarchate, which is part of what brings this to women. So that's really just what I was talking about in relation to breast enlargement operations and other operations in connection with feeling ashamed or wrong. It was just to clear it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112816	Thank you. In fact, I did not see the rapporteur derail the debate either. However, I believe that both the Conservative rapporteur and I myself are also responding to the fact that a number of the answers to the hearings make that comparison, in other words whether or not we should ban breast-sweeping and other beauties. There I just think we have to stick to the fact that there is a difference in nature when we talk about reconstruction of hymen and surgery in young women's abdomen, because they have to live up to some dogmas and traditions about bleeding and that you must not have had sex and that you have not had an active life until you are married away. Women run the risk of being killed and beaten out of the family forever because they do not live up to these doctrines. It's a fight with the patriarchate. The fact that, for example, Women's liberation also means that we are beautiful as we look and that we do not need big or small or medium-sized breasts to be right, is also an important discussion that we need to take. We just have to stop putting them against each other as if they were equal, because this is a completely different value struggle, which is really about ensuring that all women in Denmark and, hopefully, in the long run in the world can also be allowed to make their own choices in life, love those they love and live the life they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112924	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112927	Well, thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for also acknowledging that the other one is also an important debate which is involved in the battle with the patriarchate. But, of course, I fully agree that it is essential that we keep our focus here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112939	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208112945	Thank you. It is precisely the showdown of the myth and the showdown of the patriarchate and the showdown of those who are to blame for inflicting on young women a life situation where they go and are afraid, because they cannot be allowed to be equal, to have the same opportunity for their future, as for example. Young boys have, is an important fight. I really think that with this bill, we are also sending out clear signals that we as a society are supporting women in the fight and ensuring a more equal society in which we do away with medieval myths that help maintain social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113015	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113019	Thank you. I just think that the Minister will be a little unnecessarily polemical in this discussion, because in the debate here today you can clearly hear that from the... nobody wants to support that myth. Nobody wants a fight with the patriarchal structures that push women into that situation. What may be the discussion is how best to strengthen women, whether we do it through a ban or whether we do it by strengthening enlightening and preventive action. And I just think that the Minister is going to take it too far, because what is crucial is the question that when the woman who is in that situation makes the choice she is making, it is because, in the situation she is in, it is the best possible choice for her. And I just think that we have to recognise that we are not going to solve this by means of a ban; we are not going to abolish the patriarchal structures; we are not going to ensure that women have more choice. What is crucial is that we send out a clear signal that this is unacceptable, but it is also a question of strengthening the position of women and ensuring that she can make what everyone will see as a better choice than the situation in which she is forced. Because she can be forced into that situation, whether we impose a ban or not. Then it'll just happen somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113138	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113142	Well, I think we should do both, and that is also what I was trying to say at the outset. But I do not think it is enough just to do what is about information. And I think it is also important that we do something to ensure that this is not just a Danish discussion because yes, it is an intervention that is also taking place in other countries and we have done so in a number of contexts. The then Minister for Gender Equality Karen Ellemann mentioned this to the UN Women's Commission in New York. We have brought it up in the WHO because we believe that this is an important part of the discussion about language, that is to say what language creates of myths, what language can help to retain by being a language that actually supports a view that women should be virgins and something with chastity belts and what else we have. The language also creates realities, it is part of the discussion. It's part of taking this discussion globally, but also to take the discussion in Denmark, in terms of how we as a society can help to support the abolition of this myth and thus prepare the way for more women and girls, including from ethnic environments, to live the life that they have as much right and claim as anyone else who grows up in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113249	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113253	Well, I fully agree with the whole debate on the global debate. I just think that what is crucial is precisely the question of how we strengthen the position of women. And I would just like to hear the Minister's thoughts on how a ban really strengthens the position of women, because that does not give women any more choice. It just makes us introduce a ban and then we can say that we are happy because we have introduced a ban, but how does it strengthen the position of women? And I think that is what is crucial in this debate: how to ensure that women have better choices and that she can be freed from the patriarchal and oppressive structure under which she is subjected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113330	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113333	Well, I think we should do both, and if it was the case that the government had done nothing about the global agenda or had done nothing about information, then I could understand the criticism, but that is what we have seen. At the same time, however, we say that, in order to ensure that each woman has a choice other than to undergo surgery, we must also say clearly and clearly as a society that this is not an option that we think is acceptable. Otherwise, it's gonna be the individual woman who has to take the fight every time, instead of us also setting limits and saying that this myth doesn't mean we're gonna continue to reproduce, so that there can be some other choice than having a reconstruction of the hymen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113413	We thank the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113438	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113446	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. B 74 proposes that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing should be able to allow municipalities, when they commit to general construction, to approve additional investment beyond the maximum amount. This applies when the building is designed for dismantling for future recycling or when at least 30 per cent of the building is installed. the construction is performed with recycled or recyclable materials. It is also a prerequisite that the additional investment is financially viable. First of all, let me make it clear that the whole purpose of having general housing and paying public aid to these homes is to be able to be rented for lower rents than if they were not subsidised. It must be a familiar relationship. There is a special provision in the General Housing Act which makes it possible to provide support for additional investment for the establishment of general housing with a particularly high energy standard, the so-called Energy Framework 2020. However, it is a requirement that the additional investment is fully profitable, i.e. that a possible higher purchase price is matched by lower subsequent operating costs. This ensures that, overall, the rent for residents will not be higher than in other general buildings. The payment of rents depends both on the cost of purchase and on the subsequent costs of energy and other operations. This link in the current law of higher acquisition costs and lower subsequent operating costs is logically well linked when we are talking about energy investment, which, of course, results in lower energy consumption. But what do the proposers imagine when they propose that it should be possible to obtain support for additional investment, which meets certain recycling requirements and is economically viable at the same time? It must be that, for example, by reusing bricks, you can build a building so that it can be more easily separated or similar, and that at the same time lower costs can be ensured for the building's ongoing operation. I have to admit that this context is not obvious to me. I am not immediately aware of any additional investment on recycling, which is at the same time totally profitable. Having said that, I welcome the fact that we can recover, for example. older bricks or woodwork in new construction, if it is to be noted that it is safe for health and construction. If it is done in the right way, these recycled materials can be a useful contribution to a circular and sustainable construction. There is nothing to prevent, for example. a general housing organisation working on recycling if this is done within the framework of the general rules of the building regulations on safe and healthy construction and if the building is established within the normal maximum amount for general construction. What I would like to be sceptical about is that such a building with a special recycling profile should allow lower operating costs than usual for general housing. I believe that we lack knowledge about the recycling and recycling of building materials in construction and the economic benefits and disadvantages. And the point is that if the higher cost of setting up the homes is not matched by lower costs to run them, then the tenants will all be paying a higher rent. There is a lack of knowledge as to whether the recycling solutions as set out in the proposal can be implemented in total economical terms. In some cases recycling and recycling in new buildings can create construction with less resource consumption and less environmental impact. However, recycling or recycling will not always be a sustainable solution for the total economy of construction. I therefore believe that there is a need to examine further whether it is possible to build buildings with increased recycling and recycling, which, at the same time, will have a better total economy, as proposed by B 74. In view of this, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113917	I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208113919	Thank you. After all, you could also land where you say that there were some things that needed to be investigated, in other words how you can see that some building materials, which are intended to be recycled from the outset, could help to make the operation of a general settlement cheaper. I can understand the Minister's appeal against this, which means that this should not lead to a building becoming more expensive. This proposal is not something that Enhedslisten has developed himself. It is, in fact, an outside approach, from 40 companies that are involved in working with Circle House in Aarhus, where the minister has given a grant, I think it is 3 or 4 million. In order that Circle House can be realized and have the principle that the building materials used there can be recycled. And this proposal is then an attempt to spread it out to something that can be used by more people. Can't the Minister see that there's potential in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114020	Well, it is honest to admit that a resolution has been tabled because some lobbyists have asked you to do so. But I think we should be critical of lobbyists, even if they are green lobbyists. Because this is a company that wants to make some money, and it must always be critical of whether it is also in the interests of society. And in this case, Enhedslisten has to ask himself: If building becomes more expensive by using recyclable or recycled materials, and if the economic advantage that exists about this comes only in 100 years or 200 years, when the construction is to be demolished, how can the gain in 100 years or 200 years is to be included in the operating cost that the tenants have to pay? And if Enhedslisten, with the use of critical sense, finds that it is very difficult, then Enhedslisten should probably consider whether to table this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114112	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114115	After all, it is a building industry that has approached and we are quite comfortable with lobbyists. You actually tabled three legislative proposals, and we have only taken two of them forward as a resolution. So we have sorted it out, and it is not a question of there being, what to say, an operating cost of a general dwelling in 100-200 years' time. There may be something about a facade outfit 20 years after it's been built. There may be a window replacement after 20-30 years, to which you have to relate. So it is not a question of looking at it over such a 100-year perspective. In other words, there could well be an operation that could be cheaper if we could recycle more on the short track too, and that is why we have chosen to table this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114155	I also always listen to lobbyists, because sometimes they are right. But it cannot be said from the outset that because it comes from some who have an interest in earning some money from the product they sell, one has to table a resolution on it in the Parliamentary Assembly. I say that you have to listen to people with interest and knowledge in their particular area, and then you have to be critical. And I think that Enhedslisten in this case has yet to be critical. After all, we have not seen any suggestion as to how to subsequently cheapen the operation of construction where recyclable or recycled material can be used. The Enhedslisten has not gone to any trouble to find out how this could be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114234	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the rapporteur's speeches, and that is first Mr President. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114242	Thank you for that, President. In the Social Democratic Party we are in agreement with the ambition of Enhedslisten in relation to the problem that is being pointed out here, i.e. that construction and demolition waste represents a very large part of the waste we generate. And if you look at it globally, there's too much spending going on, I think it's 1.7 planets that we use, and it's too many resources that are being used. It is not sustainable in the long run, and the circular economy is obviously part of the solution if we want to consume less and smarter and actually have more respect for the limited resources that we have at our disposal. We have also addressed this earlier in the green project we have made. And we would like to look at updating the building regulations so that we get more sustainable construction and less waste from construction. But when you look at this solution, I can be in doubt, because in the old days Enhedslisten had a logo, which was such a big island that was red on one side and green on the other side, and here it seems as if the red doesn't fill so much. For one of the major problems we have in the general housing sector is that general construction is expensive. Because politically we make additional demands on general housing compared with other housing, general housing is typically 16 per cent. More expensive than other buildings, and there is only one group that can pay that bill, and it is they who move into the general building, that is to say the tenants. So when you say that it is totally economical, it may be true, but the problem of general housing, especially the newly built general housing, is, as we see from the Social Democrats, that too much of the cost lies early in the period when the housing is rented out. So a general housing built in the 1930s, or a general housing built in the 1950s, will today be cheap, whereas a general housing built in the 2010s will be expensive. As we see it, this proposal will in fact make it even more biased, by the way, that the rent profile is distorted, so that it will be even more expensive at the beginning, and that it will be even cheaper at the end, let us say in 50 years' time, than it is now. And we're not really interested in that. We see it that way, and I also know that Enhedslisten agrees with us that it is a crucial task for us in the area of housing policy to provide low rents because those who live in general housing, at least part of them, cannot afford to pay a particularly high rent. Now I can see that there are residents' representatives present from Brøndby Strand, and if you go to the general housing in Brøndby Strand, you will see that there is a mixed group of people, many of whom are struggling with the rents already there for dwellings built in the 1960s. So I'm going to say to them: we're not interested in changing it this way, where we put a very tight frame over what makes the starting house tenants going to be taller. But we agree with Enhedslisten that we need to do much more general in the construction industry, generally in relation to building regulation to ensure a more circular economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114601	Thank you, sir. Kaare Dybvad. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114608	The proposal for recycling in construction is a really sympathetic proposal and we do think that there are some good tactics in it, but, on the other hand, we also see the concerns that the Minister also pointed out, namely that when such a specific proposal comes from outside, we have to come in and assess: what makes sense and how are we going to do it? As far as recycling is concerned, a great deal of construction is already being recycled. It is then just not recycled as fine as some would like. It is being recycled when we build roads and construction sites in general. Then we go in and recycle more, we just have to be aware that we need to dig even more gravel in our gravel pits to use when creating new ones. So you always have to think about how to do it. The second part, which concerns designs for separation, can certainly make very good sense again to a limited extent. My starting point is that it must always be the case that we have to build first and foremost so that our homes and buildings can last for decades, as they do today, because they have built good buildings, at least for some generations. In fact, I think it is very important that we build for the future and that we also build flexibly. This also means that when you finally tear down, it makes sense that not too much sealants and other things have been used that make separation difficult and thus recycling. For the Danish People's Party, however, it is even more important to do something that really bats, and that is to go in and look more at how we build, not necessarily with recyclable materials, but could be used to a greater extent, for example. wood in the building industry, which also contributes to a positive CO2 there, we believe that there is something that really contributes enormously to tackling climate change. So this is something we would certainly like to take the lead on in relation to the challenges of the climate and this whole agenda, which is absolutely relevant to take, and I would also like to take part in the dialogue that the Minister and the Social Democratic Party are also putting forward: how can we look at the building regulations in order to perhaps take greater account of this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208114828	Thank you for that, President. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 74 on the authorisation of total economic extra investment in the non-profit housing sector. I would like to start by saying, as the Minister stated, that it is a requirement that the additional investment is financially viable, that means that a higher purchase price is matched by lower operating costs, and that is what the Minister also pointed out that we know from the Energy Framework 2020. The problem with the motion for a resolution here is that this is not what the motion for a resolution proposes. On the other hand, the proposal runs counter to the objective of non-profit-making housing, precisely to ensure a lower rent than the market claims. After all, we are familiar with recycling from a wide range of areas today. We know it, for example. from floor separations, where you mix recycled flamingo in the concrete, we know it from textiles, which are used to create space, and much, much else. It is, of course, because we have a great deal of focus on the circular economy, and we also have that on the part of the government, which is why I also welcome the fact that we launched a strategy for the circular economy not long ago, where we among other things. In order to ensure a single entry into the public sector in relation to the circular economy and the development of a sustainability class for buildings, we had initiatives taken to ensure selective degradation and thus also recycling training. is also in line with the UN's global goals and the trends that we are already seeing today. Many initiatives in this area are no more costly than using new materials, but there are, of course, some challenges in allowing more money to be spent on a non-profit building than is appropriate. So we are endeavouring to promote recycling in construction, of course, and we are doing so with a large number of concrete initiatives. But this proposal is contrary to the sustainability principles, for the sole reason that it is simply not worth the paper on which it is written. The Left shall vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115117	Thank you. It is a good thing if we can recycle construction and demolition waste to a greater extent, but we do not believe that this resolution will be the solution. One might slightly increase the recycling rate, but we are afraid that this will only lead to more expensive housing for residents of the general housing associations. If there is access to additional investment in excess of the maximum amount and there is a requirement for the additional investment to be totally economically viable, then the extra cost can only end in one place, and that is with the tenants, unless one imagines that increased recycling will mean a cheaper operation of the property afterwards, but we have little difficulty in seeing that it is possible to do so. We also admire the fact that a party such as Enhedslisten wants to sacrifice the residents of general housing in search of increasing recycling of construction and demolition waste. We in the Liberal Alliance do not believe that we should, and therefore we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115229	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115241	Thank you. The proposal has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs. We share many of the concerns that have also been raised, but we also believe that reducing the consumption of new resources is a key objective both in relation to the UN's sustainability objectives and in relation to the impact on the environment in Denmark and in the world in general. Both at national and EU level, we have an objective to reduce the amount of construction and demolition waste, and it is actually a fine discussion to bring in, so thank you to Enhedslisten for doing so, in relation to the central principle of sustainable construction. It should not be economically viable to build new ones if it is possible to preserve and restore, but we have found that there are some challenges in relation to that. However, to allow some additional investment to be made if it can promote the recycling of construction and demolition waste in the Danish building sector, we are actually positive about. So perhaps a solution could also be to land a report in which we are looking for more information, as the Minister also mentioned, about the area. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115358	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115408	Thank you. The Radical Left is in favour of the proposal. We are happy to give the local authorities the powers laid down in the motion for a resolution. It is, of course, important that we move quickly towards sustainability, including in our buildings. I agree with the intention of the proposal, namely to strengthen the total economy in the construction sector, and I also agree that it will actually be possible to reduce operating costs if you see it not only over a short period of time but over a long period of time, with this proposal. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115445	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115451	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal for the recycling of construction and demolition waste in general housing. The aim of the proposal is to introduce an experimental clause into the General Housing Act, and as such it is not a bad idea. It is important that in future we reflect more on the resources we consume and in the SF we also believe that it is essential to think about recycling materials, including when it comes to building general buildings. We have an obligation to reduce our current consumption so that we can keep up with it in the future too. The SF therefore agrees that recycling should be promoted, but we believe that this should be done for all construction, among other things. in order not to exacerbate the competitive situation. In SF we also believe that it would be appropriate to incorporate it into the building regulations. We do not believe that there is a great deal of market economy gain from the proposal for increased recycling, and certainly not within a period of 30 years, as Enhedslisten proposes in their motion for a resolution. On the other hand, we believe that it would make sense to look at using more durable materials, as it could be expected to have a greater market economy benefit for society. We therefore agree with the proposal on the recycling of building materials and that it should be promoted, but as the resolution is currently before us, we will not be voting in favour of it in isolation from the general housing sector, but we would like to see a proposal that might be aimed at all construction in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115629	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115638	Thank you. If anyone is wondering why I am not asking a lot, then it is because there is a consultation starting in 5 minutes. So I will try to be brief. After all, this proposal is based on promoting this recycling in a newly built building only if additional investment is economically viable and the municipality has the right to assess it in the course of its proceedings. And then this is also a proposal to give more power to the Minister. It is quite unusual for Enhedslisten to come up with such proposals, but we do so in a way, so that the Minister also has an opportunity to assess these cases where it is possible to plan on the basis of promoting more recycling. The history of this proposal is that we in Aarhus are about to build Circle House, where we think from the bottom that building elements in that building should be recyclable. It is a project supported by the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. So this proposal goes the more towards how we can then promote that it becomes commonplace in a newly constructed building, that more thought is given to recycling. This proposal has been made because there are 40 actors in the construction industry who, in connection with Circle House, have met, had processes and have looked at what it is really necessary to do with framework conditions, so that you can promote more recycling in the construction industry, well to feel the recycling where you do it in a way, so that you recycle the materials and not just smash it into small pieces and use it for road filling. And that is the potential in the construction sector, that is to say, that you can build buildings in a different way, so recycling is built in as something that has been thought through. I would like to thank you for your reception and thank you to the Radicals and the alternative for your support for the proposal. And then there are other parties that would like to promote that we come to have a building that is more sustainable, and we in the Enhedslist very much agree with that. I know that there are actors who would like us to have more woodhouse construction in Denmark, and we are looking at what is of potential there and what that is of a CO2 that is not part of this proposal, but I look forward to having a discussion in the committee where we get turned, whether a report can be written that promotes the recycling of materials in our new building in the general sector. Thanks for receiving me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115911	We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115927	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208115946	In May last year, the Danish People's Party, together with the SF, proposed the complete abolition of the au pair scheme. The scheme was supposed to be an expression of wage dumping. Now, with the support of the Social Democratic Party and the SF, the Danish People's Party proposes to introduce a full user fee for Danish education of au pairs. I have read that the parties behind the proposal refer to the fact that it is unreasonable for the Danes who do not use the au pair scheme to pay to those who do. A reverse Robin Hood, I understand it's called. But honestly, why should au pair people be put at a disadvantage than others? Today, students who are self-supporting are charged a user fee of DKK 2,000. per module to follow Danish teaching. This is true, for example. also for foreign workers and students. Au pairer is exempted from participating payments as the host families are already charged a lump sum to co-finance public expenditure on Danish education. The amount in 2019 amounts to just over DKK 5,300, and now a majority wants to make even greater difference between the co-financing from au pairs compared to other self-supporting groups. But why should there really be such a big difference? It just doesn't make any sense. An au pair stay gives young people an opportunity to gain insight into everyday life in another country and another culture, and some young people cannot afford, for example. traveling to experience new cultures. That gives the au pair scheme an opportunity to do so. At the same time, many Danish families enjoy a helping hand in everyday life. This is good for both sides, and the government simply does not think we should change that. And the government believes that the au pair scheme should be accessible to ordinary, hard-working Danish families and not just to the most wealthy. Au pairs must have the opportunity to gain insight into ordinary Danes' everyday lives. When cofinancing of 5,000 DKK was introduced in 2015, the argument was that au pairs would be encouraged to participate more fully in Danish education. At that time, the view was that the amount had struck a balance between ensuring a contribution to the costs incurred and ensuring that most people continued to have an au pair in financial terms. Apparently, that's not what you mean anymore. One thing is, and I think this is quite fair, that the Danish People's Party wants the scheme to be abolished; that is to say, to be understood, it is a completely consistent approach that has been adopted, and that is why we are trying to reduce its use. But the social democracy was at the top of the table when the present system was made with what was thought to be the right balance at the time. What has changed for social democracy since then? The answer simply blows in the wind. One might have thought that the Social Democratic Party has simply changed its point of view just to try for fun just to bring the government into the minority. But how do we know that social democracy does not change its attitude again? This is kind of what we have seen with the Social Democratic Party lately, in other words, a change of attitude. On the other hand, you do not decide what is really difficult. On the other hand, our position is clear and we have not changed our position or our position or anything else. The government cannot therefore support this bill. Finally, I should like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is examining whether the technique of the proposed amendment to the Aliens Act is in line with Article 43 of the Constitution on the collection of taxes. The result of that study may then lead to the need for an amendment, but I will come back with that as soon as possible when the study is ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120443	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120446	Thank you. Of course, words such as cultural exchanges are not something that the Minister makes much of in the political debate, but I understand that when it comes to the au pair scheme, the Minister thinks that cultural exchanges are simply the crucial thing that can make society roll on, one must almost understand. It was not a question; it was more of a comment. Can the Minister not see some point in that, if there are fewer people using the au pair scheme, it will mean that everything else will probably have to seek contact with a Danish company, perhaps a Danish cleaning company, and agree a price for them to come and help with some of these household duties? And there may be legitimate arguments for wanting others to do so. This could also have the effect of increasing the number of Danish jobs. Wouldn't that be very positive?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120537	As I also said in my speech: I actually have complete respect for the fact that the Danish People's Party has the position that the Danish People's Party now has. That has always been the case, and it is an attitude that has been pursued, and it is, in fact, fair enough that this is the case. But I just look at it differently, and I look at it in such a way that I actually think that there are many young people who have great pleasure in it. There are also Danish youths who travel as an au pair in other countries, and they can have great pleasure in getting to know another culture, while at the same time giving a hand in house chores. With regard to the Thai or Filipino or Australian or American who wants to come to Denmark as an au pair for a year, I think it's really fine, and especially if it's ordinary Danish families that you're going to be part of everyday life with, so you get to know exactly what it's like to live in Denmark. I simply have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120641	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120643	Another problem with the au pair scheme is not that it applies to everyone, but it is that there are a number of those who end up living illegally in Denmark. They simply do not go back, and then they live outside the system and are not registered anywhere. And we can also see that in the private health clinics targeted at immigrants who do not have a legal residence permit in Denmark, there are a number that have originally arrived here as an au pair. Does the government have a plan for, or any proposal for, how to avoid, that there are au pairs that remain illegal in Denmark, because that is in neither their interests nor those of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120717	On the other hand, I fully agree with the Danish People's Party. You shouldn't be in Denmark if you're here illegally and if you don't have the right to be here. That's one of them. This is why we, together with the Danish People's Party, have strengthened our efforts, and it will certainly also hit au pairs who have originally arrived in a legal way, but then have stayed here, namely the fight against illegal immigrants who are in Denmark, which means that there will be more checks and better checks on both entry and exits, but also check more generally at workplaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120800	We thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208120823	With this bill, Dansk Folkeparti wants families who have an au pair to pay for the statutory Danish education. Today, the state pays a large part of the cost. For host families, this will mean that the cost increases from approx. 5,000 kroner. for 11,000 kroner. We think that is basically sensible. It shouldn't be sir. and Mrs Denmark, who has to pay over the tax ticket for typically more wealthy families to get a domestic help. That's not fair. It must be on your own account if you choose to become a host family for an au pair. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. As we stand here in the Folketing discussing the au pair scheme, I would also like to make a few more general comments on the scheme. The last time we discussed and debated the au pair scheme, it was on the basis of a proposal from Dansk Folkeparti and SF to abolish the scheme altogether. We in the Social Democratic Party could not support that, and neither can we today. One of the Social Democrats' arguments was and is that we want to hold onto the possibility of cultural exchange and that the au pair scheme was intended as a good opportunity to get a young foreigner right into the dinner table of a Danish family. Unfortunately, that is not quite how it works today, but it is still our ambition that the scheme should be brought there. We see that the scheme has too often been used as an opportunity to avoid the demands on education and pay levels that we normally make when a citizen outside the EU is going to Denmark to apply for a work permit, and that in this way the scheme works more as a labour migration than as a cultural exchange. That is why we are also sceptical about the au pair system if it does not soon start to function as intended. However, we would like to await the evaluation of the scheme, which was initiated after the tightenings that the SR government with the support of SF, Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten had made back in 2014. After that evaluation, we can have a better debate on a more qualified basis on the future viability of the scheme. We look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121032	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121035	I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye, if he does not agree that increasing the cost for the individual family will mean that only the most wealthy families can afford to use the au pair scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121053	It is already not families with an average income that make most use of this scheme. However, the rapporteur of the Left is right to say that when expenditure increases, it will be harder to pay for families with general income. There is no reason to hide that. But when we support this bill, it is from a perfectly common point of view that it can really be true that Mr. and Mrs Jensen has to pay for training for some au pairs who have come up here to some families, which everything else equally earns significantly more than the average. So this seems fair to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121133	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121135	When I look around in my network at those who have used the au pair scheme, it is quite ordinary families who have taken the advice to use this scheme. I think it would mean a lot to make this a little more expensive. And those I know who could afford this afterwards are some where the cost is already so indifferent. What the Social Democrats are going in and supporting here is just something that makes the au pair scheme an exclusive arrangement for the rich. That is totally contrary to everything I thought the Social Democracy stood for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121210	Well, social democracy does not mean that citizens outside the EU should have access to the Danish labour market. We do not stand for that. And we really regard the operation of the au pair system today as something that is more restrictive of a labour market regime than a cultural exchange. We think it is quite reasonable if people want to buy themselves for services such as cleaning and smearing lunches and mowing grass, but then we just think that you should buy the services in the same way as you normally buy services in Denmark, and that is not by importing people outside Europe. That is why I would also call on the Left and the rest of the government to consider in depth how we are going to make this system work as intended rather than, as now, when it, we think, is being seriously abused.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121253	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121316	Thank you for the floor. When the last discussion was on whether the au pair scheme should be abolished, the Social Democrats made it clear that they did not want to abolish the scheme. However, there must be something about the scheme that the Social Democratic Party supports, or what? Nevertheless, we now want to increase user charges and thus make it even more difficult for ordinary hardworking Danish families to afford to use the scheme. When the Social Democratic Party was at the end of the table when the au pair scheme was last modified, a cofinancing of DKK 5,000 was introduced. Today, you want to double the host family's user charges. But why only now, four years later? Has the attitude really changed, and with what background? In the Left, we support the au pair scheme, which is quite fundamental. It allows young people from abroad to gain insight into Danish culture, while Danish families enjoy a little extra help in a busy everyday life. We are also opposed to increased user charges, as it makes it more expensive to be a Dane and for Danish families to use the scheme, while at the same time placing au pairs at a disadvantage than other foreign students. In the Left, we would like the scheme to be accessible to everyone and not just the most prosperous, which will be the result of what we are adopting here. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121439	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121455	The unitary list is in favour of abolishing the au pair scheme. It is not a cultural exchange but a cheap labour force for host families who should be able to afford to hire domestic workers under contractual conditions. Unfortunately, there is no majority in the Folketing in favour of abolishing the scheme, which is why we have to deal with the possibilities of improving it so that au pairs' rights come as close to the rules of the Danish labour market as possible. In 2012, therefore, the Enhedslisten tabled a motion for a resolution which, inter alia: This meant that au pairer's allowance was increased to correspond to the salary of a service assistant over the age of 18. I'm afraid we didn't get through with that. However, in 2014 we managed to reach an agreement with the then SR government as well as SF and Dansk Folkeparti, where several important improvements were made. The age limit was raised to 18 years; the allowance was increased; the working hours were better managed; au pairs were given half an extra day off a week and better entitlement to holiday; and the host family was required to pay both the outward and return ticket to name some of the important improvements. On the same occasion, the host families were also required to cofinance Danish education in the form of a lump sum of DKK 5,000. in the case of the issue of a residence permit. Last year we gathered the agreement circle behind the 2014 agreement to see if we could get even closer to normal employment terms, but unfortunately nothing came of that. Now Dansk Folkeparti proposes that we change the lump sum to cover Danish teaching, so that the host family must pay in connection with the issue of a residence permit an amount covering the full expected cost of Danish teaching, which at current prices will be approximately doubled. We think that in the Enhedslisten is perfectly reasonable. The host families receive a very cheap, very flexible and very committed workforce, and it is also reasonable that they cover the actual costs of Danish teaching for the person concerned. We have of course noted that there are objections to the proposal from the FOA and FH, but we do not really understand the concerns that an increased contribution to Danish education should make it more difficult for au pairs to change host families, as we read the proposal so that it remains a lump sum paid in connection with the issue of residence permits. So it will be the primary host family that will pay. We have also seen Au Pair Network's concern that this will lead to less use of the scheme. We do not share that concern because, as I started by saying, we believe that the system should be abolished. But if that turns out to be the case, it just shows that the host families are not really interested in paying it, it costs to have an au pair. It is important for us to stress that the proposal does not alter the residence permits already granted and, therefore, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121806	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121814	Thank you for that, President. First of all, of course, I am delighted to hear Enhedslisten's position in terms of user charges. I think it has usually been very difficult to get Enhedslisten to see the connection between user charges and behavioral regulation, but it seems that there is a change on the way, and of course we welcome that. Getting to know other cultures and being an au pair, I see it as a positive thing. It is something that has been used in my family in my own generation and that my children have taken advantage of, and it has given them good language skills and friendships for life. This is really positive. And that is why we also think it is quite unreasonable to propose raising the user fee to about twice what it is now. It is true that user charges are a sensible instrument, but they must also be used without discrimination, and this proposal will do so. So because this is unfair discrimination in relation to an otherwise healthy principle, namely user charges, we cannot support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121934	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208121945	Thank you. In the alternative, we cannot support this proposal. We cannot do so for various reasons, such as: because we are actually in favour of an au pair scheme in Denmark. When the last proposal was made to abolish the au pair scheme, we voted yellow, and so we did on the basis of the consideration or premise that, in line with some of the other rapporteurs who have been up here, we clearly believe that there are serious problems with the au pair scheme as it is today, because it borders on the exploitation of young girls, as is most often the case. However, we fully support the idea that there is an au pair scheme, so we voted yellow at the time, but the au pair scheme that we would like to see should in fact be on a model which ensures that there are proper rights and which also ensures that the Danish families who want to avail themselves of an au pair scheme actually have a greater chance of doing so across social and economic divisions, as is not the case today. So when we don't support this proposal, it's kind of because we think it's a well-known xenophobic, because we don't want these girls to go to Denmark, and because, as other rapporteurs have said, it actually makes it even more expensive to get an au pair, so we get the risk that only the most prosperous families will then have the opportunity to get an au pair for their families, and we really want an au pair scheme, which might be a little bit socially differentiated, so that those who do not have so much money could get an au pair. Then there is the small nobility that there is no evaluation of the au pair scheme, and we would like to wait for it. And so I think that we in the Folketing as a whole should discuss a future au pair scheme and how it could then be put together. It will then be enough in the new Parliament, but we would rather that instead of starting to make changes to the current system now. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122139	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122142	Again, I must be surprised at the social blind spot that the alternative often has in relation to relationships when it comes to the labour market. But since it is now that the alternative says that you don't want it to be only the most wealthy who have au pairs, that's what is today... how do we get to the point that it should be all sorts of others? I believe that what should be done now is to spread the system so that we can have even more social dumping elsewhere in society? Or what is the alternative's perspective on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122215	When I say that there are challenges in the existing system, it is acting, among other things. on the labour market challenges in relation to what the SF calls social dumping. I am interested in finding a system where we do not go out and dump on the Danish labour market, but where we can actually still get away from this cultural exchange, which has always been the aim of the au pair scheme. So it's one of the challenges. The second challenge is, of course, that these au pairs do not have proper rights. These are the two challenges that we see and which we would like to adjust to. But again: I think we should do that when we have an evaluation of the au pair scheme so that we can do it together in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122254	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122256	Yes, yes, cultural exchange is something we are totally excited about in the SF. But why should it take forms to exploit poor girls from the Philippines? That's exactly what this is about. There are quite a few exceptions where there is a single man from Sweden who can find a single girl from Finland, but the picture is quite clear: poor girls are being imported from the Philippines and are being placed in well-stocked homes north of Copenhagen. Cultural exchange: can we get it back in slow replay? This is social dumping, this is the exploitation of poor girls. Where did the cultural come in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122328	The purpose of the au pair scheme was to say that the proposal from the Danish People's Party originally contained a cultural exchange, and I am standing right here saying, and I think, Mr. Karsten Hønge may have to flaunt out the ears, that there are some challenges in the current scheme that we would like to help adjust, among others. These girls don't have any decent rights. Then we should not forget that the au pairs coming to Denmark also contribute to their families where they come from, and that is not necessarily a bad thing. So we would like to support the continuation of an au pair scheme in Denmark. We just want an au pair scheme with proper rights and opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122401	Thank you, Mrs Magdalene Maier, and the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr Kellett-Bowman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122409	Let me follow up the last sentence straight away: I am quite convinced that these poor girls from the Philippines are contributing to the economy of their families at home in the Philippines. Is that supposed to be an argument? You see a door open here? Poor Romanian truck drivers also contribute to their families at home, and what about the Bulgarians? They're making a contribution, aren't they? Should this justify accepting that they should work in this country for a third of their salary? This is, of course, a completely hopeless way of arguing, and this shows the blindness of the alternative to this biased social access that people have to jobs in the labour market. Yes, families with children can be very excited about everyday life, but you are not more excited about being a well-stocked family north of Copenhagen, where it is that the au pair scheme is widespread. Cultural exchange is then on all parameters a nice thing, but it is cheap labor just not. On the other hand, there are clearly families who really genuinely care about the young people they receive from the Philippines, quite clearly. I myself have had the pleasure of visiting some of these families, who obviously had a great interest in culture, for meeting across national borders, and therefore it is an extra dimension to have a young resident in the home. But then it is a happy message that there are a great many systems in which families can participate in cultural exchanges. But you can do that without meeting the needs of these families to clean up and care for children. We believe that the domestic work carried out by au pairs should be carried out under normal conditions which apply to the labour market in general. This proposal can bring the conditions on which au pairs are hired a small step towards the rest of the labour market, and therefore the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122611	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, who is now also in charge of the papers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122633	Thank you for that, President. The aim of the draft law is to introduce, as far as possible, full user charges for persons wishing to avail themselves of the au pair scheme in Denmark. This bill proposes to amend the Aliens Act so that families wishing to host an au pair pay the public's costs to offer Danish education to the au pair person. It is our view in the Danish People's Party that the scheme does not generally work as intended. The original purpose of the scheme was cultural exchange between a host family and an au pair, but in practice the scheme has developed into an access to cheap domestic help. The aim of the draft law is that users of the au pair scheme themselves finance the expenditure currently borne by the State, so that the scheme is, as far as possible, fully financed by the user. Today, the state bears part of the cost of Danish education, and it is our immediate expectation that the bill will result in the host family paying for the offer of Danish education to an au pair person increasing from approx. 5,000 kroner. ed 11,000 kroner. Then, of course, I have noted that the Minister said that there might be some problems with regard to the constitution. We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. But of course the government is welcome to send its thoughts to the Folketing, and I am sure the government will. Then I would like to thank you for your support for the Social Democracy, Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, those parties which support the bill, and we hope that it will soon be adopted in the Folketing. It is, of course, a small proposal, but we think it is a reasonable one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122810	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122823	The questioner, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, I do not see in the Chamber and you cannot start a debate if a proposer is not present, just as you cannot start a debate if a minister is not present. Now I see that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen has come to the Chamber and we therefore avoid interrupting the sitting and can go directly to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208122902	Thank you. I'm sorry for the tumult. Sometimes things go a little faster than even a jyde imagines. Thank you for the attendance of the rapporteurs and the Minister here today for this question on Danish food culture and non-ritually slaughtered meat in the public institutions, in some places perhaps with the expectation that I will spend the time talking about banning halal slaughter or labelling requirements for halal meat, but that is where I must disappoint, or whatever to call it. Because the issue of the slaughter method and the labelling of the slaughter method for the animals we produce, eat and export are completely EU-regulated and even totally harmonised, and that is why I do not want to spend any time today on problem-setting it further. It is also the case that already because there is EU legislation, the debate here will probably stop immediately, with reference to the fact that the Folketing cannot or must not touch these sacred foundations of EU law. No, I would just like to say at the outset that there are very many Danes who do not like halal meat and therefore want to opt out both in shops and in public kitchens. Why, then, do many want to opt out? After all, the taste is the same as it is so gifted often said. Either I think it is because they are opposed to the slaughter method itself, it is the case that halal meat is from animals slaughtered either under mild stunning as in Denmark or completely without stunning, as it is happening abroad, or it may also be because one does not like a foreign religion to define how one's food should be prepared, or it may be because one does not want to financially support the halal fees associated with production. But the short part of the length is that today a great many Muslims are given the opportunity to choose halal meat, but not all other citizens are given the opportunity to be free of halal, which I regard as a vertical violation of Danish food culture. So I hope today to learn a little more about the attitude of the government and the rapporteurs towards this dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208123125	We thank you for the explanatory statement, and then we turn to the answer and start with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208123135	Thank you for that and thank you for the question here. I actually think I'm gonna start with a nursery rhyme, though I can get a little worried, because in these times, you never know what people can be offended about. Because when you can be offended even by the Højskole songbook, I don't know if it's gonna work. But I'm trying anyway, for Halfdan Rasmussen writes at least: "My stomach is as thick and fat/as the whole Espergarde./I think while I'm lying down,/what the reason may be./I've just eaten a little porridge,/a sausage, four pastry,/five slices of pork, a steak with onions,/and a glass of raspberry jam! Here it is, then, that there will probably be some who will pull the hand brake and danger in flint, probably on Facebook, I believe, for poor, poor child. The child has eaten gluten, sugar, meat, even pork and a cake. And especially cake I know can be very problematic. I think many institutions around have met different requirements and several requirements for the food being served, and it can be difficult to handle. This applies to parents of children in day care institutions who require food without sugar, vegetarian food, vegan food and even food that has not been heated to more than 42 degrees. In addition to special requirements for the food to be served, there are also many who would like to dictate what others may eat and what special considerations should be taken. Of course, I shall not dictate what someone should eat, and in Denmark we take account of each other. But taking into account does not mean that we should be subject to special considerations. The minority must not be allowed to dominate the majority, and this must also apply when it comes to food culture. We respect the fact that allergy sufferers, vegetarians and people who do not eat pork must be able to have a nutritious meal, and of course we must also be able to have it in the day care institution or in the hospital, but we do not therefore start to prepare everyone else's food after there are some that have to be taken special account of. Our culture and history are also our food culture, and if we do not have a common framework, then we lose some of our identity. Danish society must not give up itself because of misunderstood considerations. In addition, food culture is also about community, and if we are to have each our specially designed diet, we can never meet around a table. Having said that, in general, I think that these debates on special considerations are far too much. What has actually become of the good Danish words reach or never mind? In my view, these are indifferent debates on violations that are shadowing serious discussions about people who are actually being harassed because of, for example, the situation. their source. This is the case, for example, when you hear about Jews who cannot travel with calot on Nørrebro, and this applies to foreigners who are discriminated against on the open street. And I therefore agree with the proposers that we must safeguard the Danish food culture and that we must be careful that special considerations do not break down in the community. However, the proposal is not, in my view, the right solution to the problem, because the proposal will mean that even more key rules and rights will be introduced for a particular type of food. In fact, I do not think that is the way forward. I think this kind of question is best suited to solving local issues where you can get the food plan to go up and where you have to get it to go up and where you know the local conditions and needs. It must of course be quite common Danish custom, which forms the starting point for what is being served in Danish daycare institutions. But I also have every confidence that this will be done in the various municipalities. Christiansborg does not want us to go in and make a meal plan for the week. So that part of the question the government can't support. But I think there is a broad consensus on this in the Danish Parliament and I hope there is also that we should safeguard Danish food culture, by the way. For example: It was the case that the previous government went so far as to label fried pork as a Danish national law. I am not quite sure that I had come through with that, but for once I really thought it was a good choice of the current opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208123652	Thank you, Minister. It is now possible to make brief comments, but no one has asked for them, which is why we go further in the rapporteur's line and thank the Minister. Then we move on to the debate, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Claus Kvist Hansen, Dansk Folkeparti, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208123716	Thank you. Pulse and breathing have come down where it belongs, and then it may be that the stress level also comes down seriously at some point. Thank you for the Minister's preliminary reply. I think it might be important to rewind things a little bit and put things into relief here. We are basically talking about the fact that a strange phenomenon has crept in here over the years, not only in the Danish shops, but also, as I mentioned earlier, in the production of food in our public kitchens, i.e. the kitchens that produce meals for kindergarten, nursing homes, hospitals, etc. Over the years, then, this custom has come unsuited, so you can say that you offer meals based on halal meat to those who want it. Muslims' demands to have public meals prepared on the basis of religious principles are widely met. And basically I think that one should have thought that in an enlightened society such as the Danish one would have rejected religious special requirements long ago, especially for food products, because in a public kitchen one is not dealing with superstition and religion and that the halal concept as such must be regarded as an attack on the secular world order. But no, you didn't, and you still don't. Then you could have expected that at least the serving of halal would be limited to those who specifically demanded it, so other citizens would have no food that was affected by this unwanted religion. But it didn't happen that way either. Several public institutions have chosen to say that, since few require halal flesh, everyone else must have it too. It is said that it is easier for such a rational and uniform production of meals. Or you wrap it up in a searched explanation... and I realized that the minister was also a little over there on that ball street... that it's for the sake of the community around a meal... that it's important that there's no such a dinner table around the dinner table... them and us. Of course, you can say that, except that it is then suddenly in quotation marks those who define what we can eat in e.g.. kindergarten or in the hospital, but us, the ordinary Dane, no one has asked. With the same argument and in the same way, we have seen incidents in which institutions directly decide that no meals based on pork should be served, because if you had to, then the explanation is that everyone could not attend the meal. Again, no one really wants to take into account all those who may like pork and who do not necessarily regard a meatball as a goddamn work. Well, it is the municipal council and the parents' boards who decide what our children should eat, then others say, and yes, that is what the day-off law says, and in the hospital it is the regional councils that decide the menu. It is true that there is a formal freedom to give children, patients and citizens a formal opportunity to opt-out and opt-out, but that freedom is in fact only formal in the world, because in reality only halal meat is allowed to be chosen, and if you do not opt for it, you will have meals based on meat, which may or may not be halal, because producers should not be informed about the slaughter method. If you do not choose halal meat, you may well be able to get it anyway. In the case of poultry, the meat is almost certainly halal-slaughtered, regardless of how it is marked or not marked. So, overall, one can conclude that the freedom of religious food is exclusively in the direction of choosing halal. Then you can ask yourself if it is not a little a false freedom. I would say that, and it is only here, that I, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, simply want a correspondingly loyal and equal opportunity to allow citizens to choose meat which is certainly not ritually slaughtered. I don't think it's that much complicated science. If a group of citizens is offered an opportunity or a right which it has gradually become to choose, then exactly the corresponding right must also follow for citizens who wish to opt out. After all, the whole country is filled with politicians who are very keen to respect the rights of Muslims to halal, and they must, of course, stand up for that, but the right to opt out of halal is simply not taken seriously and it is not even considered. It is a welcome religious demand for food, but one only has shoulder to shoulder to shoulder with ordinary Danes who simply want to be free of food added religion, and that is why I think it is necessary for the Danish Parliament to intervene and ensure that there is real freedom for Loki as well as for Thor, and freedom for Ali as well as for Anders. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to draw up guidelines and necessary legislation for food preparation in public kitchens so that, in accordance with Danish food culture, citizens are given the opportunity to choose meals based on non-ritually slaughtered meat from lambs, cattle and poultry. • V 70).
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124252	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. And since there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124308	Discussions about halal slaughter and pork appear as Denmark becomes a more cultural and religiously diverse society, and I think that is actually quite natural. Immigration leads to a cultural meeting and sometimes even a cultural clash, and it quickly turns into popular discussions and therefore also into political discussions, as is now the case with this debate today. In the Social Democratic Party we take the view that the responsible politicians should be allowed to define food policy locally and regionally if they think it is necessary. I note that some people want to drag all the decisions on this cultural meeting right into the Assembly Hall, while others want parents and employees of the individual institutions to decide for themselves whether or not to pig on the fork, without municipal political interference. Social democracy disagrees with both views. Our position is actually quite simple. If a municipal council puts the decision to the individual nursing homes and kindergartens, they have the full support of the Social Democrats. However, the same applies if, on the other hand, the municipal council decides to withdraw the decision to the City Hall and adopt a policy defining how and when religious and cultural considerations are taken into account in the municipal institutions. The same applies to the regions. We fully understand that some local politicians want to establish such broad guidelines. It can be beneficial to ensure that parent meetings are about playgrounds and bullying policies and other relevant topics and do not become an arena for religious or social control. By dragging the decision into the town hall, staff also avoid having to constantly explain why pork is served or meat is bought in one place or another, and whether the liver pie has been warmed in the microwave before the chicken fillets have it. I have said this in public before, and then I was met with criticism from many politicians and opinion-formers. Some argue that municipal politicians should simply get away from the food policy of the institutions and leave it to the educators themselves, but I believe that the criticism is based on a lack of practical experience from everyday life. The discussion is not new in Denmark. In fact, there is no reason why we should start over by inventing the deep plate. Now take some examples from the Copenhagen West, where I live. In my children's former kindergarten in Albertslund, about half of the children were Muslims and had roots in another country, and the latter half had such family roots in Denmark. When the discussion last ran with background in some examples from Randers, our food mother, Jane, put up a small, fine sign on the notice board at the entrance to the kindergarten, where the municipality's guidelines for serving food were described for us parents. The sign said that both pork and beef and chicken meat were served here, just as fish were served, and there was also a weekly porridge day. And the sign also stated that allergies and religious beliefs were taken into account and that it was determined at the City Hall. We can also take a look at the municipality of Brøndby, who writes in his food and meal policy for children and young people from 2017 among many other things that culture and religion must be taken into account when food is served, but also that the food policy of municipal offers is based on Danish traditions. And that is why children who cannot eat a Danish dish for religious or cultural reasons are given because of the fact that, for example, they are not able to eat a Danish dish. is pork in, offered an alternative, like a nut allergy will get food without nuts. Therefore, not only medically justified special requirements but also culturally justified ones are taken into account, but in a way that maintains the Danish food culture. In this way, foreign culture complements the Danish instead of replacing it, and that is exactly where we are going to land. It works quite well and without the big discussions in many municipalities, and it is typical in the municipalities that have had this in their lives for decades. Let us listen a little to them rather than, on the one hand, squeezing out the local politicians who make these decisions or, on the other hand, forcing them to follow the guidelines set out in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124721	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124726	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it was some fine reports from the Western Region that the rapporteur brought to me. I must honestly admit that I did not learn what the Social Democratic Party really means in this particular case. I understand that the rapporteur believes that it is acceptable and within the framework of taking what we should say about certain medical, but also cultural considerations, understood that if you do not want to eat pork, it must be an option and that you can then choose halal meat. That is how I interpret the rapporteur's words. But what about those who specifically say that they do not want halal-slaughter meat, that they do not want ritually slaughtered meat for one reason or another or third? What about them? I don't think I got any smarter about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124811	Thank you for the question. I also listened to the speech by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and understand that according to the Danish People's Party it must be possible to choose meat which has not been added to religion. I have only visited two slaughterhouses, a poultry slaughterhouse and a beef butchery, and in both places I have asked a question about what it really means to say that something has been halal-slaughtered. Without making me an expert on this, my impression was that it meant that there was a man standing in the corner saying a few religious words and that it was especially for export reasons that they did so. It is possible that for a religious person it means that religion has been added to the steak, but for me nothing has been added, by someone saying a few religious words in the butcher's hall. I don't really care about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124904	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124906	I am a little sorry that the rapporteur is hacking this issue down, because then he has not got to grips with the problem properly. Halal-slaughter meat is more than an employee who stands and celebrates production. It is a matter of the little overall that one disputes the secular principle that we normally live by here in the world, thus contesting it, by religion coming from outside and going in and defining a production. There is also an animal welfare angle to what can be discussed, perhaps not so violent here in Denmark, because all halal slaughter at home is done with anesthesia. Finally, then, there is the problem of religious charges, which are being charged with a halal tax which goes to extremely suspect persons. So there are plenty of good reasons why you want to opt out of halal-slaughter meat for one reason or another, and I have still not received an answer as to how the rapporteur views those people who want to opt out of that concept.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208124959	We'll get it now. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125001	I would like to start by saying that I do not think that money should be transferred to quite suspect people, but I would also insist that my secular approach to this issue means that I do not consider it to have value, political value, that someone has said a few words across the steak. It does not matter, and I do not need it to be a right to eat a steak where no one has said a few religious words in the corner of the butcher's hall. I simply cannot understand why this should be a political right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125031	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen has had his two questions, and therefore the next one to get questions is Karina Due, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125037	Thank you. Then I will continue along the same lines, because now that the rapporteur thinks it should be a right that we should be allowed to choose meat for which a prayer has been asked and paid a tax, why should I not have the same right to say that I would like to opt out of it here? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125102	But I want to start by saying that the examples I read from Albertslund and Brøndby Municipalities are not about a right to choose halal-slaughtered meat. It is about having the opportunity to have a meal that does not contain pork served on the days when the institution serves pork. I have not come across any municipal day-care policies which relate to the right to be specifically halal-slaughtered, but only to the right to have something else nutritious served on the day of the serving of pork. I think that is a sensible policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125134	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125135	So I would like to ask the rapporteur a question: is the rapporteur aware that halal is not just about meat? It is about drinks, ice cream, chocolate, cake and a lot of other things that we are not aware of at all, because these are only those products where we can see a label. And the labelling is quite voluntary today. What does the rapporteur say about the fact that we, as Danes, do not have the option of opting out of something we do not want to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125205	Well, maybe I can best describe it by telling you what I think it's like to arrange a children's birthday, where I know children are coming with a need for many different considerations. Then we'll make a pizza with ham, pepperoni, meat and another with beef. And when there are parents of my children's playmates who ask if there is one or the other in the gum, or what it is, I'm just saying that I've been to Kickly and that they can eat what we've bought, and if they don't want to eat it, they can just not. Well, I can't run around in 5, 6 or 7 different stores and look at e-numbers at the back of the bags to see what it is, and if municipal councils make similar decisions, I'll back them up in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125243	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Seligman's question. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125308	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. I therefore agree that we must safeguard the Danish food culture and that special consideration for a minority must not mean that we must wipe out our own food culture. It is part of our history, and it helps to define our unique Danish identity. As someone who has often had long periods outside the country, I know so on my own body how much it means not only having a linguistic identity, a historical identity or a geographical identity, but also having an identity that is bound up with food culture. It means something. But for me, the Danish values are also about a community where one is allowed to live with some degree of freedom, where one does not get outside interference, and certainly not so from the top of the pyramid, as it is when we adopt laws here in the Folketing, and in relation to the community I believe that Danish food culture can help to create a common understanding of how we define ourselves as Danes. After all, we in my party are in favour of freedom and community going hand in hand, and we therefore also believe that children and adults who do not eat pork should still have the opportunity to have a healthy meal in the institutions they or their children are in. But it is not the same as saying that pork is no longer to be served because some in the community do not eat it. Consideration is important, but they must not be excluded. Having said that, we in the Left do not believe that it is Parliament's job to dictate what is served in the public institutions. Personally, I am very concerned that there has been a lot of pressure on our institutions with non-Western immigration. We see that everywhere. It is a pressure on values that we take too clearly, on freedom of expression and on what we really mean by democracy. There are forces out there that not only use our education systems, our freedoms, but also seek to change everything, to leave it in a different form from what they originally found them in, and that debate is to me one of the most important that we have in our time. It challenges our institutions and challenges our values. I think I agree entirely with that. I just don't think we're gonna solve this by legislating on what food plans should look like in the municipality. The freedom must be local where the supply of food is adapted to local conditions and needs. But we must dare to talk openly about these challenges that arise with non-Western immigration, and make it clear that if you want to settle in Denmark, we also demand that you take Denmark and Danish culture to heart, that it is not something that is going on the other way. It is not Denmark that has to adapt to the fact that there are people who migrate to Denmark. There are considerations to show, but we must preserve the institutions we have and the spirit in which they were created. In those words, on behalf of my own party, I shall read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is broad support in the Danish Parliament for protecting Danish food culture, and that special consideration for a minority must not mean that we wipe out our own food culture. Parliament also notes that, in this context, special requirements for food arrangements should not be introduced in the public sector on the basis of religious, philosophical or political beliefs. The Danish Parliament also notes that the competence to set the framework for a healthy lunch meal in day care institutions and schools etc. is located with the municipal council etc. The municipal council is therefore responsible for organising and organising a dietary policy which takes into account the wishes and needs which the municipal council assesses are present. V 71).
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125650	This will now be part of the further debate. But first there are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125657	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I mean, I think it sounds very nice when you say that there should be no special dietary requirements in our institutions. But that's where they are and they're gonna be taken care of. That is why I am thinking, as I said in my own speech here before, of the freedom, the much-vaunted freedom that exists in the institutions and in the municipal councils, of finding pragmatic solutions, of course, only one way forward. It only applies in the direction that goes: If you require halal, you get it. Does the rapporteur not think that it is uliberal or iliberal, or what to call it, that the corresponding freedom does not apply to those like me who want to be free of religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125743	Well, I hope that that freedom can come about by being conscious when you interact with your institutions and say, as the rapporteur himself said in his speech: I want my children to have the opportunity to have a meal in which religion is not mixed. I believe very much in the political consumer, and I fully agree that there is no such certification out there saying that there are some foods here that you can buy and that have not been in contact with a religious process, if I may call it that. And perhaps we are helping to create an understanding that there may also be a market for it. There is clearly a need for this in some.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125834	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125835	Well, I certainly agree that there is a need. I should just like to mention something very briefly: at one point there was a case with the Price brothers who used halal meat in one of their television broadcasts, which I had a problem with. It ended with an extra magazine article, and at that time it was the second most commented article at Ekstra Bladet at all. People were furious. Each time there have been such voxpops or opportunities that people have been able to comment on such from the popular basis of the question of ritually slaughtered meat, they have been furious. They want to be free of it. There are a lot of people who are abandoned by the rapporteur because he believes that free elections are taking place out there and things are going on pragmatically. A lot of people are left behind. Does that not mean anything to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125923	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208125924	Well, I don't want to leave anyone in the lurch of this debate, and I think it's important that you get to discuss that you can choose food that hasn't been near religious regulations, especially because there's something that suggests that it was also highlighted when Mrs. Karina Due had the opportunity to ask questions that there's trouble with the certification, and that we don't always know where all these funds go. So this is a very important debate, and in the wake of that debate, no matter how we learn more about it, there will then be a need for many people to say: I do not want to buy food of this type or that my children are exposed to it. And that is something we must support, just not with legislation from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130008	Then it's Mrs. Karina Due, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130010	Thank you. I can get a little confused on a higher level. After all, the Left speaks for transparency. It is not long ago that we had a toy case where the Left actually wanted to make a content specification on the toy, no matter how small it was, so the consumer had the opportunity to see exactly what this toy contains. So when it comes to food, the Left is completely indifferent to whether we as consumers can see through what we are buying, whether it is halal or nonhalal. I'm just asking that as a consumer I have the option to choose on or off nothing else. I am not saying that there should be no halal, because I have seen that I do not win in Denmark. I'm just asking to have an option to choose from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130108	But I also think that this possibility should be made available. And I believe very much that when political consumers get together in this way, a free market will discover that there is this desire and will respond to that wish. And then there's no reason why we're standing here making dinner plans or getting involved in anything else. That must be something you lift out there in civil society. I think civil society itself can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130134	Mrs. Karina Due for the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130137	It is quite difficult to see through as a consumer because it is not forced to feel whether something is halal or not. It's a voluntary arrangement. So my question will then be reversed 180 degrees now and says: could the Left imagine a label stating that it is non-halal or that it is not religious; that it is not paid to any religious community? So there is a label for which we can choose instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130207	The day I get to go down to my local Bruges and see that it says on a chicken that it's probably not halal-slaughtered, I think I'll pick it. Because I am also concerned about the certification that is being adopted in each abattoir between some religious actors and the chicken producer, i.e. whether there is really any control over where all that money is going. So I hope that will be an opportunity one day; that there are some who see that such a product that is labelled in this way must be placed on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130239	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130251	Thank you. I would like to ask why the Left accepts that it is Muslims, at least some Muslims, and then politically correct and touching institutional leaders, who have to decide what it is that Danish children get to eat in the institutions. Because that is the case in some cases. Why does the Left accept that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130304	But the Left does not accept that either, because that is not what the Left sees going on in the institutions either. There are some considerations that are being taken into account for Muslim children and, of course, all children, including those who are not Muslims, must be taken into account. The whole point of my rapporteur's speech was precisely to say that it is important to show consideration, but consideration should not be delineating to others who also need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130323	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130327	We can look into that in depth. The government can initiate such an investigation. Will the Left back it up? If it turns out after such a study that there are examples that there are public kitchens and public institutions where it is so that if you want something to eat, you will have to accept that you get halal, will the Left do something about it from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130355	If it turns out that some people are forced to eat halal-certified food, the Left will be very helpful in lifting that debate, because it is an important debate to get all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130410	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130421	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by being honest and confessing that it is always with some concern when I see the Danish People's Party raise queries to the Minister of Integration. There may be many occasions, and the consequences can sometimes be overwhelming. All the more delighted I was when I saw that this time we had to debate Danish food culture, of course because as the health rapporteur I know how important a good and versatile diet is for general public health, but the joy was the greatest, because the subject was addressed to West Jutland in me. For who can talk about Danish food culture without talking about the potato? It may be difficult to understand, but as far as 1537 people actually lived in Europe without knowing the excellence of the potato. Only after European imperialism had subjugated South America and the Inca Empire did the potato come along with the Inca gold to Europe. At first, however, the potato was difficult to integrate. Although food shortages and the potato were easy to cultivate, it was difficult to get people to take in the potato. Actually, it couldn't really make sense. The myth says that it was first the French military doctor, Antoine Parmentier, who made the potato popular by laying in his potato field, but left it unguarded at night, for then people thought it was popular and stole the potatoes. In other words, the potato had to be reclaimed and recognised, so integration went much better. In Denmark, however, it was the French Huguenots who settled around Fredericia who brought the potato with them, although it was only when Frederik V brought the so-called potato Germans up here to cultivate the heat that the potato gained more widespread. But as far as 1820 the potato was considered unworthy of human consumption, and thus Reverend Lauritz Minis of Funen writes in his diary in the late 1700s: "How to get Potatos favored by the farmer is a question of no small difficulty,... and one might more easily introduce a new religion than to introduce Potatos. That's a strong message, I think. But it actually succeeded in getting the South American root fruit that was brought here by French refugees and cultivated by German immigrants, the amazing potato, widely used in Denmark, and with its large content of vitamin C it actually had great importance for the disappearance of scurvy, also with the almu towards the end of the 1800s. Now it should also be remembered that the potato is not just a potato, but is found in several varieties with different characteristics, advantages and disadvantages, but all of them are potatoes. I have a predestination for the bintjekartoflen, which with its slightly floured consistency can draw a lot of gravy. However, I also need to raise a warning flag. I recently read that Danish potatoes contain higher levels of pesticide residues than foreign. It would be disgraceful if the Danish potato were to be ashamed of the fact that so much poison is poured into our society that it is almost unhealthy and dangerous to consume. I hope that together we can prevent that. The potato is delicious and has spread throughout most of the world, where it is enjoyed on an equal footing in most cultures with rice, bulgur, pasta and bread. I personally believe that potatoes taste good both with meat, vegetables and also ritually slaughtered meat. I understand that the Danish People's Party has a problem with ritually slaughtered meat. So I would just like to call on the members of the Danish People's Party, who tend to think so, both as a health rapporteur and as a West Jyde, to try dishes with potatoes and for example. falafel. Falafel, which is primarily made up of chickpeas, tastes fantastic, and you can actually put together your own favorite spice mixture, just like with the meatball, and thus achieve exactly the flavor that you prefer. This has the advantage of reducing meat intake, which is positive from both a health and a climate perspective, and also avoids having to worry about whether your meat is ritually slaughtered or not. However, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important question, which gives the opportunity to highlight the influence of the potato on Danish food culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130832	Thank you. There was a request for a brief comment. First, it's sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130846	Thank you for an interesting post. I was not aware at all that there were so many angles to the potato, but I know that now, and had the subject only been potatoes, I also think it would have been relevant. Maybe I just don't think it's quite in this context where it's about non-ritually slaughtered meat. And I sense that the rapporteur is not very interested in talking about what is actually today's text. However, I would just like to ask very briefly, given that the rapporteur comes from a party which, at least in the old days, thought that religion was opium for the people, how does the rapporteur feel about large parts of the meat products in our public kitchens today being religiously contaminated?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130924	Now I am sorry if it is the case that the rapporteur does not think I have taken this issue seriously. In fact, I think I brought it the seriousness I think it deserves. But I would now like to say that we are of the opinion that religion is not something you eat, but that it is something that is going on up in your head, and therefore I think that religion primarily has something to do with how you think, and not so much about what you eat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130940	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208130944	That is precisely the problem. Religion should be something that was in people's minds and hearts, but it is not exactly when it comes to ritually slaughtered meat. That's what we're talking about here. This is the way to repeat myself for the twentieth time today that large quantities of meat products in public kitchens have been prepared religiously, and that must be a matter of concern to a rapporteur from a strong left-wing party. Well, it should actually be Enhedslisten, which was further ahead in the shoes than the Danish People's Party on this issue of keeping religion out of the kitchens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131026	Now I am of the opinion that what matters how food is prepared and what you eat is that those who eat it appreciate it and that they like it and how it should have something to do with religion, I have a little difficulty seeing. I think it is more about good food hygiene and good nutritional content, and religion can then concern itself with when they are not eating.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131042	Then it's Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131045	Yeah, you could say that about what you want. I thought the rapporteur's speech was funny. I would like to ask the rapporteur something quite different. We often hear that Enhedslisten praises everything that is organic. If the rapporteur could now decide from in here what should be served in public institutions, would the rapporteur prefer halal, or would the rapporteur prefer ecology?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131121	After all, there is the difference between ecology and halal that ecology is in fact a concrete method of cultivation which is important for both animal welfare and the way vegetables are grown. However, I do feel that I really would like to see local decision-making on how the diet should be composed, including in the public institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131139	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131142	Then I find it a little funny that someone from the Danish People's Party should tell Enhedslisten that if any meat is organic, it cannot be halal. It is a question of the method of slaughter in the field of ecology. So the question is: does the rapporteur still believe that organic farming must be promoted and that institutions should not be halalized?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131213	Yes, I certainly have no problem with that, but then I can't understand why the Danish People's Party thinks this is a problem. For then you could just buy some organic meat if that was the most important thing, unless you have a fundamental desire that it should not be organic. Then I can see that you may have some problems. But you often do when you're shopping. There are many considerations to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131228	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131233	In fact, I think this was the best speech so far. I think it was extremely relevant and topical and significant in relation to this discussion. For it was precisely a description of a part of Danish food culture that we got here from Enhedslisten's rapporteur. So I would like to ask you a question; that is, quite frankly, you could go one step further and also bring the religious with you. Is it not true that one could almost give the same tale of cabbage, which was actually imported by monks, because they thought it was very healthy to eat, and therefore they would like the people to eat it, and probably also to have them made more religious? With scabbard cabbage, things have turned out completely different; this is not always a success story. Skvalder kale is weeds in our gardens now, and we have a damn shepherd getting it up, but it was actually a meal that was imported into Denmark in the same way as the potato. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131339	Yes, that is quite correct, and I think it is an interesting turn that the debate is taking here today. I think that is a good thing, and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen still has the opportunity to make a speech on the spread of the bowl in Denmark. I also find it interesting in this context that the potato was actually brought up here by French refugees, the Huguenots, and that it was then cultivated by German immigrants, namely the potato Germans. However, I do not know whether I fully agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. I would say that I myself have had great pleasure in making a scabbardhead, which has actually made us have wiped out most of our bowls at home in our own garden. So you can actually make an excellent pesto out of scabbard cabbage. So there are also some options there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131422	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131425	That is actually quite correct. I totally agree. I have also worked with cabbage. And I really think that today's debate has such a purpose in that we really increase the level of information on Danish food culture, not least through Enhedslisten's speech here and the debate that is about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131446	You're welcome. I think this is an excellent opportunity to show how diverse the Danish food culture is and that it is basically just about us having the opportunity to develop it. And I think that both the potato and the cabbage are excellent examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131458	We are grateful to the rapporteur, and also for his historical experience, and we are going to move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131509	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. There are many debates which tend to bewitch those who participate in them, and perhaps that is what we just heard an example of just now. How does the spell manifest itself? It is reflected in the fact that all the participants in the debate are beginning to say foolish things, things that make any progression in the conversation impossible, and thus make the hope of a conclusion hopeless. It may well be that I myself may be at risk of being bewitched by walking close to the subject, but I will try to present something that could be a building block for a rational discussion on this subject. If you submit to some diet, it is a personal project, and it can have many reasons. It can have medical reasons, and it can have culinary reasons, and you can imagine many things. If you make a diet a marker for whether you're in or out of the good company, it's something other than a personal project. Then it is a form of identity policy, and identity policy is something that has many definitions. Some of the best can be read by Spanish sociologist Manuel Castells. He published many years ago a three-volume work on the age in which we live, and the whole of Volume 3 is about identity policy, so I can't go through this from the platform. However, I would just like to say that identity policy is a form of policy which represents a dispute with the basic prerequisites of liberal democracy. Because the prerequisite for liberal democracy is that we are determined as two things at once. We are determined as individuals, and we are determined as ordinary beings. As individuals we have some rights, and as general beings we have some very common characteristics. We have our lives and our dignity, which are inviolable, we have equal rights and we have a rationality that is binding on everyone because we are all rational people. In principle, all identity policy is anti-liberal. What you have of rights in an identity policy optics depends on who you are; whether your arguments are good depends on who you are; whether you should be recognised as a human being and given dignity depends on who you are. The question is whether identity policy is evil. It doesn't have to be, because it's usually always annoying, but basically it's not evil to be annoying. It's just annoying. But dividing the world into halal and haram is a form of identity policy, and so it is also said that it per. definition is anti-liberal. It is a division that dissolves all the concepts and distinctions on which our social order is based, and especially if you try to kneel the division by force. To force the citizens of a liberal society to recognise the distinction between halal and haram means, for me, to force citizens to recognise a non-liberal or anti-liberal position. It is to adapt to anti-liberal principles, and that is, in fact, the core of what is sometimes called Islamisation: forcing non-Muslims to recognise the rules of Islam. That is why I am grateful for the debate, because that is exactly what this is about. I would like us to be able to discuss at a more fundamental level how, in a liberal society, we can ensure that people who are not Muslims can at any time be free from the recognition of Islamic rules so that non-Muslims can draw the Prophet as much as they want, because it is not their prophet. That is what is at the heart of a liberal society: that Islamic rules are completely irrelevant to non-Muslims, and that is why I hope that one day we will be able to have an entirely fundamental debate on the essential issue that has been raised here. But thank you for raising the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208131957	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132003	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and, in fact, I would like to thank you very much for adding to today's series of rapporteurs who are actually interested in the issue and even a knowledge of the problem. I have missed that with other rapporteurs, but I acknowledge the rapporteur's understanding of this problem. Having said that, I think we agree on long stretches that halal and haram are, you might say, part of the debate on Islamisation. That is why, of course, I am curious to hear: where does the rapporteur actually stand in relation to the proposal for adoption put forward by the Danish People's Party? So, is one willing to take the step from, can one say, philosophically well-saved words and then actually move on to action and to support what the Danish People's Party has said today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132055	I am very pleased with the proposal for adoption we have, because I think it reflects in a good way the stage we are at in the debate. I would like us to have a wider debate in the Folketing on these matters and that at some point we might have a proposal for adoption which picks up this whole debate. However, right now, I think it is actually such a very good middle time in relation to where we are in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132118	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132122	Okay, well, now we're in a safer environment again. In other words, the rapporteur makes intelligent words, but when it comes to action, you are a little more hesitant. And then we are still standing away in the situation where it is in the institutions that the battle for value must be fought, but lost. And in reality it is the case that you still advocate the choice of halal, but in relation to the opposing option of choosing not ritually slaughtered meat you then back up, I can hear. I am, of course, sorry, but I hope that in future the rapporteur will take part in similar debates with the Danish People's Party, should it come to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132202	Although I think very highly of myself, I do not think so highly of myself that I think I can dictate the policy of the entire government. So I do it that I am presenting an analysis as best I can, and then the government has come up with some overall reflections, and then that is where we have come to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132221	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132228	Thank you. I was quite inspired by the speech on identity policy, because sometimes I think that we could take a fundamental debate on that in the Folketing, i.e. what identity policy really is. I think we do not always agree. Sometimes I think, isn't all politics identity policy? The social democracy's historic struggle for the rights of the working class is probably also in some way an identity policy, and the desire of the Liberal Alliance to lower taxes at the top is probably also an identity policy, but that is another debate. It was just an interesting angle on this subject. But we have been summoned to discuss meat in public, and thanks to the Danish People's Party for that. Allow me to focus on what is relevant to discussing meat in the public sector: what constitutes a real social challenge enough, contrary to what the Danish People's Party considers to be a social challenge, namely the climate strain that meat actually imposes on our society. Today, following this debate on the question, we have our own resolution in this Chamber, which needs to be dealt with first and which is about a climate contribution on meat from ruminants, so thank you for allowing us to focus on this subject twice. On October 8, last year, a report was published on perhaps the most important science of our time, namely the United Nations Panel on Climate Change on the possibility of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, and the conclusion is thus clear. In fact, it is still possible to limit global warming by 1.5 degrees, but it will require, as they write, an unprecedented level of ambition among the world's decision-makers. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. It in itself threatens our existence on earth, and it affects, triggers and accelerates a lot of changes or other crises and changes, among others. climate refugees, of which we all know there will be more and more if we do not manage to deal with the climate crisis in time. What we are doing in the years to come will define the possibilities of expression and freedom for future generations. I would therefore also like to thank the Danish People's Party for having an opportunity and an opportunity to talk about Danish food culture in public. For our consumption of meat in the public sector has an impact on how and how much we put in relation to the climate crisis. Meat is the most climate-laden food we have at all. In fact, a new research study shows that the citizens of Western countries must reduce their food intake by 90% if we are to avoid fatal climate change. It's a whole new studio that shows it. After all, Denmark is the country in the world that produces the most meat per head. citizen. In fact, it is 360 kg per year that we produce per year. citizen. We don't eat it all ourselves, we export a lot, but we eat 95 kg of meat a year. citizens of Denmark, and for me and for the alternative, it is crucial that we take responsibility both individually but also jointly and politically-structurally to stop the climate crisis. It is basically, as I said at the outset, about our own existence on earth, not so much our existence, but the existence of our children and grandchildren on earth. In fact, we believe that the climate and environmental costs of food production should be more reflected in the price of agricultural products bought by consumers. That is why we are proposing a levy on meat from ruminants. It is beef, veal and lamb in the first place, because they are the most climate-laden. It is therefore a question of including the price that our meat production costs for our nature, environment and climate in the price of the products that consumers buy. As I said, this is just the first step, but it is certainly also a debate that we should take when we talk about meat in public. After all, the question here is about alternatives to ritually slaughtered meat in the public sector, but one might also ask whether we should talk more about alternatives to meat in the public sector at all. When we were elected to the Folketing almost four years ago, we proposed a weekly green-day, as we called it, a vegetarian day, and laughed very loudly at the time that you could come and suggest it. But the fact is that today there are very many places, both in the public sector and in the private sector, where a weekly vegetarian day has actually been introduced, simply for the sake of a real climate. So the question is whether we might soon get to where we are going to propose a weekly meat day in the public sector, or that we might even come down on fewer meat days in the public sector in relation to being able to contribute to reducing climate change. We have to get back to that. But thank you to the Danish People's Party for asking this question, and I regret that, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund also navigated me a little bit away from the ritual and not ritually butchered meat, because we do not think this is a very relevant agenda for the Folketing to deal with. This, on the other hand, is the climate crisis that we are facing. I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the climate pressure from cattle and pigs alone accounts for approx. one fifth of Denmark's total climate impact and that intensive animal production results in an area in South America corresponding to Zealand and Falster being deforested for soya production. The Danish Parliament notes that the consequences for the climate of the high consumption of meat by the Danes are insurmountable and that today the climate-laden foods are actually too cheap in relation to the climate and thus the social damage they cause. For this reason, the Folketing calls on the government to impose a excise duty on beef, veal and lamb, so that the negative effects of food production on the climate are included in the pricing. This avoids passing on the bill for the consequences of climate change to future generations, as we are doing today. V 72).
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132821	This proposal for adoption is then also part of the further debate, although it was a broad proposal. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132831	Thank you to the rapporteur. I had a slight suspicion that the rapporteur might come up with concerns about meat consumption, but that it filled so much, I had not just seen it coming. But let's imagine, then, trying to play with the idea that this afternoon we are reducing our meat consumption by 95 per cent. and by the way, everything else, diesel and gasoline, will be phased out, so that sometime next week the climate will be in place. Then it's kind of chopped off. It's okay. If we are now toying with the idea of this monthly meat day, which we shall then have in the institutions, what does the rapporteur think of the hypothetical situation in which we are once again faced with the problem of ritually slaughtered meat and non-ritually slaughtered meat, who is entitled to one and who is entitled to the other? Would the rapporteur think that it would be just as natural to have the right to choose non-ritually slaughtered meat as it seems today to have the right to choose ritually slaughtered meat?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208132927	I have the basic conviction in principle that in a society such as Denmark the majority must take particular account of protecting the minority. And when I say that, it is, in fact, because it is harder to be a minority in a welfare society than it is to be a majority. So as far as this debate is concerned, I was also thinking about the previous one about the matter of being forced to eat ritually slaughtered meat, so I don't know how many people really think it's a problem, i.e. how many Danes, understood as Christian Danes, or what you think it's a problem. Then you have no relation to how meat has been slaughtered, at least not something that is in the sames, as I have informed you, and it may of course be, it is wrong religious writings. So I would actually say that we, as a majority, have a responsibility for minorities. Then I think it's just a thoughtful situation that you shouldn't be able to eat anything ordinary butchered meat. I mean, I don't know institutions where it is going on, that only ritually slaughtered meat is being served, so I also think it is a rather strange discussion to take. I'm not sure it really exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133030	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133034	Indeed, those institutions exist in reality, and there are also institutions where one has ritually slaughtered meat, i.e. halal meat, and the rest, which one does not know what is. That's how it goes, I dare say, in 99%. of the institutions. The large quantity of meat products is not known whether it is one type or another type of meat, or whether it is mixed, because it is assumed that the Danes do not care. The rapporteur is concerned about minorities, and there is a minority who says: we cannot then touch what the others eat; if they want to eat halal meat, then they must, but we just want to be free. We are a minority in our own country, and we want to be free of ritually slaughtered meat. What does the rapporteur think about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133119	That's interesting. It's gonna be all of a sudden the other way around. So now the ethnic Danes are minorities. In that case, it must be taken up in the individual institution, at institutional level, and I simply cannot imagine that such consideration would not be taken into account if it were brought up. I'm just asking how big the problem really is out there. So, are these ghosts that you see from the Danish People's Party, or is it really the case that there are parents who have this problem in everyday life? I certainly do not know it myself, and it may of course be that the rapporteur can give examples of it, but I just do not think it is something that we should be dealing with in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133149	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133152	Thank you. What makes me ask for the floor is the rapporteur's statement that in a society such as Denmark the majority must submit to the minority. What I would like to hear is whether it also means that the vast majority of people in this country, who are not Muslims, are not allowed to draw Muhammad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133220	It does not belong in the Folketing to make strawmen, because I did not say that. "Subject" is the rapporteur's own choice of words. I said that I believe that in a society such as the Danish, not the Danish, but in the rule of law at all, the majority must take particular account of the minority. Yeah, I said special consideration for the minority, I think. That would be my position. I think that will be a fundamental debate on how to look at this, about having a community group that is normal, and then there are some who live in other ways. It is the same with the fact that the Jewish minority in Denmark has been accepted in Denmark for many hundred years and has been given room to be here with them, one can say, habits and traditions that they have, and I think that we have embraced very well in Denmark. I think this should apply to all the minorities in Denmark: that we understand and tolerate and allow room for living in ways other than those of the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133310	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133316	Does the special consideration that the majority must take to the minority mean that the majority must not draw Muhammad?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133325	No, it doesn't. After all, there is no legislation to say that Muhammad is not to be drawn. But just because you can't do anything, it's not necessarily because you have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133336	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133354	I do not quite know what to say to the debate we have today. It is about food culture, and one of the characteristics of culture is that it changes all the time. I was thinking about my childhood. I grew up in a post-school school, and I sat there every day eating with 60 boys, and it was brown sauce and potatoes and meatballs. person; that's what was room for there. And a privilege consisted of Norwegian beer loaf or saggy loaf, or whatever it was. You had to eat up there was no dear mother. My mother walked around and said, "If you don't eat up, think of all the Chinese who are starving." And it was the morals of that time that it was. At that time, all you had to do was eat what came on the table... there was no pardon there. It has changed a bit since then. People went on a trip, went to Lake Garda on charter trips and with the caravan, and they found out that there was something called pasta, something called spaghetti with meat sauce and pizza, and I don't know what. Then people came to the country, who came with other kinds of meals in the form of Oriental food, falafel, hummus, and what it called "interesting things," which suddenly came to the country. It meant that you had to admit that it wasn't enough just to say: You better eat the meatballs, because that's what you have to do. That's what is Danish food. It was found that Danish food is also other than that. In connection with all this, I also think it is worth noting, when we are talking about Muslims coming here, that for many centuries we have also had Jewish food habits. Well, kosher food has also been a challenge, in some places at least, and the Jewish slaughter method is known to me more animal welfare-friendly than the Muslim halal is. Schaechtning is worse to me, because it is not permitted to sedate the animal until it is slaughtered. This is a different discussion, but it's just to say that this isn't just about a lot of Muslims coming to the country. It is, in fact, a discussion that has also been held before that. However, it is true, as has been said, that with the large number of Muslims you get these discussions around the institutions. I think, in fact, that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, like Enhedslisten's rapporteur, made a very, very gifted speech explaining how to handle it around. He also said, quite rightly, that perhaps it is not always reasonable that it is only at the individual institution, it may be decided that the municipality has some guidelines for this in order to avoid that it is the head of each day institution who has to decide on this. But it's just a municipal decision. This is a matter which has to be decided by local and local authorities, and it is not something that we can sit and decide here in the Folketing. I came to think that we are a rich country, when we spend time here in Parliament discussing this. I have to say that. Well, I guess there's bigger problems than that, isn't there? And I think we actually recognize that there is. And that we are spending time discussing this, I think, is an expression of the fact that we have a society that does not have the very large and violent conflicts, I have to say. You find out in different ways, and it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133805	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133809	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for an interesting journey through the time of sagosup and what else we have up to the present. And especially thank you for not talking any more about cabbage. In fact, I do not think that the rapporteur is properly involved in this problem we are talking about. It may be that the rapporteur thinks it is a ridiculous problem to talk about, and it may be that it is for some, but we still have to deal with a problem that I would like to hear from the rapporteur. It is the case that religious influence on food is a reality today, and the possibility of opting for halal meat in the institutions and hospitals is a reality today, even if the rapporteur thinks it is ridiculous. Then I just ask the rapporteur, who comes from a left-wing party, where I also mentioned that before religion is opium for the people; where religion is ridiculous: how can you stand with your hands in your pocket and just shake your head off? And when you finally have to accept that this is happening, why not give such people as me and others the opportunity to say: we don't want religion in our food? We actually listened to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, when he believed 30 years ago that religion was opium for the people. We don't want the opium religion in the food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208133922	Now, I have never said that religion is opium for the people, and I actually believe that to the extent that the left has made mistakes, it is one of the places. So that's what it is, but what does it mean by religious influence? So, as I said before, potatoes and cabbages were brought up by monks at the time, because they wanted to use it religiously, and there is nothing strange about it. I have to admit that I'm not a super expert on it, but I understand that you can't buy a chicken in a supermarket without it being halal-slaughtered. This may be an organic chicken, but then you have to pay three times as much as for one of the other chickens. You can do that, or you can go to specialty stores. I just understand that halal slaughter is so common in slaughterhouses that when you go out and buy ordinary meat, that's what you get; that's what I've got for many, many years, and it's not bad for me. Well, I'm not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134033	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134035	No, of course we cannot have the rapporteur feeling ill; that is not what I am saying either. But the mere fact that the rapporteur himself acknowledges that it is difficult to avoid religious meat preparations, halal meat, should then cause a red bell to ring from the rapporteur. The rapporteur must surely think that it is okay that there are a group of people who do not want religion into public spaces, for example. in a public kitchen. But it doesn't mean much, I have to understand, and that's okay too. But there is a group of people who are tired of religion in the kitchens, and they are not being taken into account today. And that is actually what the question should be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134111	Well, what you have to take up is whether or not religion has to leave the private kitchens. Because what I said before was that you can't go into a supermarket where it's not like that. If I go into the local Kvickly in Valby and buy a chicken, it's halal-slaughtered, I understand, and if I buy a piece of pork roast, it's halal-slaughtered... No, I guess it's not halal-slaughtered, it can't really answer. That was not such a thoughtful remark. I believe that if I buy a piece of beef, it is halal-slaughtered, I understand. I do not know, but I understand that this is the case, and it is not something that has bothered me in the many years when I have bought chickens, beef and veal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134156	The end of speaking time is now saving the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134202	Apart from the sluggishness about the halal slaughter of pigs, I know the rapporteur as an immensely knowledgeable and thoughtful person, and so I would like a comment on this whole division of the world into halal and haram, which is of course an Islamic division of the world, and which is what is at stake when you spread halal to, for example. a day-care institution. Is Islamization a general problem? Is that something we should be sceptical about? What about Islamization of e.g. relationship with women? Is there any kind of good Islamization and any kind of bad Islamization? Where are the rapporteur and the SF in relation to the Islamisation of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134252	We are against the Islamisation of Denmark, but I find it difficult to see that Denmark is being Islamised. A lot of Muslims live in Denmark, that's right, but so many people don't live there either. Somewhere, it is also a debate that has been very much upset in the media, I think. I remember one time, when I was party chairman, I was at a meeting in a Jutland city such a small, Jutland province, a town of commerce where a man, such a nice man, probably a former schoolteacher or something, stood up and asked: What will SF do in relation to the Islamization of Denmark? There was no Muslim living for 30 kilometers of the city there, but it simply did not. It was such a nice town with parcel gardens etc. etc. I asked, there's no one in this town, is there? Yes, yes, he could see in the media that it had become a problem. So it is also something about the fact that it has been very much talked up by certain politicians, by certain media, that we are close to being Islamised, because what is it to be Islamised? It is something about Sharia law, that is what you see in Saudi Arabia, and that is not where we are, either halfway, three-quarters, one-tenth or a thousandth, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134411	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134415	Flemming Rose himself says that de facto it is forbidden to draw Muhammad. It is a subject he really knows a lot about, and the fact that it is de facto forbidden to draw Muhammad is, after all, an undermining of section 77 of the Constitution. In other words, it is an Islamisation that through threats it has succeeded in undermining one of the paragraphs of the Constitution. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134444	Well, I'm aware that Flemming Rose has his own experience in that field, right? And I think it's a problem, but you can't say that freedom of expression is denied in this country, can you? Well, now I can't draw, but if I wanted to draw Muhammad, I'd do it. Nobody likes to deprive anyone of the opportunity to do so. So that Flemming Rose says so is not proof that Denmark is being Islamised; I can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134527	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. And I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak, so that is why it is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134551	I would like to thank you for the debate here today. As I started by saying, the government fully agrees that we must safeguard Danish food culture. However, I do not agree, and the government does not agree that we should introduce even more detailed management from Christiansborg. But, of course, we must ensure that things are right, so if you are allergic, it is taken into account. But, of course, it should not be in a way where everyone else cannot have milk, meat or whatever it should be. We should not be dictated by a minority and Danish society should not give up itself because of misunderstood considerations. As simple as that, I actually think it can be said. So I would like to thank you for the debate. I really think it has been fine, and one can at least say that we have been around a long time. But that is also what the question debates are sometimes for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134716	We thank the Minister. There are no brief comments. To conclude the question debate, Mr President, it is the rapporteur of the questions. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208134730	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister and the rapporteurs for many gifted comments. I think that the debate on some of the rapporteurs has been somewhat marked by a perhaps lack of interest and a lack of knowledge in this area. This is an honest matter, but perhaps I think it is a little too bad, because, in principle, this debate on halal and ritual slaughter is actually important. But peace with the fact that some people do not find it exciting to discuss. And peace with the fact that SF's rapporteur cannot see signs of Islamisation, although he had admitted 10 seconds before that he could not find a chicken anywhere that was not halal-slaughtered. I think that was a little funny, because that is what this is all about. I really wish I could see some hope for someone like me who thinks that if you really want free choice in one direction, then free choice must also be in the other direction. I sense that the Minister's and the Left's rapporteur actually recognizes that there is a problem, and I think that is a step forward; I would like to say that. And I do not think that this will be the last time we will have a debate in Parliament, perhaps not just us, but then others for the debate and the problem is still topical. I would like to say a special word of thanks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for taking the word Islamisation in his mouth in this debate, because that is also what this is about. And the reason why I myself have been reluctant to use the word today, although I had all the arguments for it, is that as soon as someone from the Danish People's Party takes the word Islamisation in his mouth, the debate will be about that person and the tone. I have not wanted to go down that road today, but I am glad that you take the bull by the horns of the Liberal Alliance and call things by their proper name. That's why I'm really • now that I've been talking a little bit warmly about what the future brings. In any case, it is certain that the debate on the right to halal does not die today, and so is the discussion on the fact that quite a lot of people are just saying calmly: it is fine if you want it, but we just want something else. I hope, of course, that it will be fed, because it is actually a quiet and calm battle of value that we are losing out in public kitchens and out in supermarkets. With these words, I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208135021	No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Tuesday, 19 February 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208135047	I do not see the alternative rapporteur in this Chamber, and I have to say that a debate cannot be started without the rapporteur being present. I will not cancel the matter for that reason, but we will take a deep breath of one minute or one and a half, and I can see that the Minister also agrees with that. It is the case that we cannot start the debate on a motion for a resolution without the presence of the party that tabled the motion for a resolution. But now everything is in place, and that is why we are starting the debate on motion for a resolution No. B 58. The debate is open. The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208135412	Thank you for that, President. The alternative has tabled a motion for a resolution, B 58, on the introduction of a excise duty on beef, veal and lamb. The alternative proposal involves the imposition of a consumption tax of DKK 17. per kg of meat for beef, lamb and veal. However, such a tax would not be appropriate for a number of reasons, and I will deal with them here. First of all, it is expected that the tax will only have a very limited effect on the Danish climate accounting. A tax on the consumption of beef would mean that the Danish consumption of beef would decrease. However, production in Denmark is likely to decline very little, as the meat will instead be exported. So even if Denmark has a domestic market for meat, we export a great deal, so it will not move much on how much meat is produced in Denmark, but it might result in someone eating a little less meat. When it is only a little smaller, it is also because it proposes a levy on certain types of meat, and this is then tied up in an argument that meat from ruminants is the most stressful climate. That is why it is not proposed that the levy should apply to pigmeat or chicken meat, and that may be sensible enough from such a climate argument, but when it comes to making such a levy, it creates the situation that some other problems arise. So I think that some of those who will choose not to eat any beef, because there is now tax on it, will eat some pork or some chicken meat instead. And you may have had a very small climate effect, but there are some other environmental effects that will then be promoted. The tax will also be an administrative monster, and there you can ask whether it is not a little harshly worded, but I must honestly say after 1,000 days in the Treasury that when we invent new taxes and they have changing governments I do not know if you can say by God here in the Danish Parliament? You can't do that, no; then I regret it... had really bad experiences with it. And I have to say that we have had really bad experiences in the Ministry of Taxation in inventing new taxes, and what on paper seems like such a straightforward political solution... we solve an environmental problem or a health problem or a distribution problem by inventing a new tax... is fine when you have negotiated it and people are clapping out in front of the negotiating room after you have been interviewed for the TV Newspaper. When the officials then have to implement what has been politically decided and it has to work out in reality, all the problems arise. And if you made a levy on meat like the one proposed by the Alternative, there will be huge administrative problems, because beef is not just something that we sell in 400 g packages down in Netto or in Fact, it is also getting mixed up in a lot of things, and you have to find out how much meat there is in one or the other, and then you have to pay tax after that. For example, is it... A salad must be determined as to how much meat is in it and how much tax must be paid. This applies to pizza: if there are ham strips on it, then there should be no charge, but if it is beef strips, then there must be. This applies to pie: How much meat is really there in such a liver pie, or are there other things in it? And it's about sausages, meat dads, etc. So it may be that on paper, on the basis of a climate agenda, it is an obvious way to save our climate accounting that we make the Danes eat less meat, but when you look at the proposal carefully, you see that there are some very, very strong arguments against it. That is why the government rejects the motion for a resolution. I would say, however, that we fully agree with the alternative that we need to find better climate solutions for agriculture, but despite the fact that the agricultural sector has significantly reduced its climate impact since the 1990s and the Danish foods today are among the most environmentally friendly and climate-friendly in the world, the government believes that we should move forward and that we need to achieve more, especially because we have a desire to be climate neutral by 2050. Isn't the government going to do something when you don't want to be a part of this proposal? one could then ask from the point of view of the alternative. We have actually done a great deal and we would like to do more, but that does not include a levy on meat. Instead of inventing a tax, we have done so that we have created a research pool of 90 million. kr. to find solutions for the future so that agriculture can further reduce the climate impact of the agricultural industry. If you roll out a tax that will have a lot of boring effects, you will not achieve what you really want. So I actually think that technology can help us a lot along the way. And just because someone has written about it in the daily press, it may not be true, but you can at www.dr.dk among other things. read an article titled "Tang-eating cattle burps" - yes, excuse the expression, but it says "up to 99 percent less of the bush." The main essence of the articles is that if you give cows seaweed, you can greatly reduce their climate impact and their CO2 I think that if you're going to achieve what we all know, namely that we take better care of our planet and get reduced our CO2 We're just doing a tax. But it is my boring task as tax minister to say that I think this is a really bad idea when you get it rolled out and done in practice. Because in reality there are technological methods where we can achieve what we want more quickly and more effectively. That is why it will also be the government's recommendation. So in the end, I can't help messing with the alternative a little friendly, loving teasing because I think there should be room for that. The problem with taxes is that they turn the heavy end down, because the wealthiest can be indifferent to the fact that they have to pay any tax, they can afford it, but those who have small incomes are hardest hit; that is why there is a great deal of social policy in abolishing taxes and, in fact, a great deal of distribution policy, and the alternative is also on this distribution agenda. However, those who will be affected if you introduce this tax are people like the single mother who, after a long working day, want to make meat sauce for her children. She will be affected by this tax, it will be felt by her, whereas the director, who eats the expensive beef, will not feel that it will have to be paid $17. more in the charge for the steak. So that is why there are also some distributional arguments. And that is why I shall conclude by reading from a quote from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who is the food rapporteur for Enhedslisten; I think he has quite rightly said why you shouldn't introduce this tax, in an article at www.dr.dk: The problem is that the single mother will pay 17 kroner extra for a kilo of minced beef, while the richest can buy beef tenderloin for 400 kroner and then only be subject to a tax of 17 kroner. I do not always agree with Enhedslisten, they are usually in favour of new taxes, but exactly in this area I agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, and that is why I would like to say that it is a bad idea to make the levy proposed by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140247	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140251	Thank you, Minister. I would just like to take it on the social side first, because it is the case that we have many policy areas, and we also have social policy in our government programme, and it is the case that if we implement our government programme, it will be a little more expensive to buy some of the meat products, it will be something cheaper to buy the green products, because we will halve VAT there, and then a low-income group of citizens will actually have a few thousand more dollars per month to do well to make these purchases. So the whole point is actually that we want everyone to reduce meat consumption, not become vegetarians or vegans, that is not what we are saying. We are simply saying that we can combine ourselves to lower meat consumption, and that is precisely what I am asking the Minister now: is it not true that taxes work, after all, that they regulate behaviour? I fully agree that this will not have a major effect directly on production, because a tax on the product is something that regulates consumption. That's what we want with this tax, in other words, to make consumption change away from what is the greatest climate load. Is it not true that it will work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140404	It is quite true that taxes have an effect, and it is well documented, but that depends on where they lie down, and it also depends on what taxes are in other countries in relation to border trade, whether they achieve the desired effects. I believe, as Minister of Taxation, of course, in the scientific studies that have been carried out and the empire behind it, but I am also a politician and say that it is not always when you calculate something in the spreadsheet that it really behaves exactly like that. I am increasingly sceptical about whether some of the small taxes that have been made now have the desired effect, i.e. whether some of the small environmental taxes now have the effect that we think they have; just because they had it 30 years ago, have they done so today when our purchasing patterns have changed? All other things being equal, it has an effect, and that is why it is not just the argument with which I reject the proposal. These are also the administrative challenges, and so there are many of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140505	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140507	[Sound emission]... I think it sounds a bit like the Minister might want to abolish taxes on petrol, diesel, and other forms of energy, tobacco. Is it really that way? I think that it is precisely taxes that have proved their worth, their function that have changed behaviour, for example. in the tobacco sector, which has led people to buy smaller cars when taxes were changed there. That is exactly what we want here. Or how else does the Minister think that meat consumption or the climate strain associated with our food intake can be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140550	This will be felt particularly for small incomes, but compared to an average Danish who buys 400 grams of beef down in Netto or in Facts or in Irma, I think that you have to turn up the tax a lot more before you get the desired effects. That is my assessment, but of course there is an effect of a tax. I must also reveal here that we have actually had a levy on meat in Denmark and that it was introduced by a Left Minister and a bourgeois government. It was the fat tax. We have then abolished it again because it was impossible to administer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140627	Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140630	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for quoting my esteemed colleague, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, correct, and it is also correct that exactly this charge is not Enhedslisten's cup of tea. The Minister then said, and there I am curious, that there may be many other good ways of reducing climate pollution. Then I thought that I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to give his thoughts on this, because I do not think we heard so much about this and I would also like to know if there is anything in the area of taxation in store.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140709	The Minister has one more minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140711	Thank you. I mentioned, for example. this pool, which supports research into technology that can reduce the climate impact of agriculture. It is also about how agriculture uses pesticides, how agriculture does environmental impact, and how increasing biodiversity can also reduce the climate impact of agriculture. When I can't explain it any more than on these broad lines, it's because what I'm mainly dealing with as the tax minister is the tax part. However, I am sure that if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur wishes to ask questions about the resolution here, I can obtain a good and comprehensive answer from my colleagues, the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140802	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140804	Thank you, and also thank you for the promise to obtain further answers. I'll think about that. I'll ask you written questions. The minister is almost putting out a path in relation to some CO2 that sounds interesting to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140836	Now I highlighted Enhedslisten I know that because I thought it was a little funny because Enhedslisten used to be because it probably doesn't, because Enhedslisten is in favour of a tax on CO2 It doesn't; it is so for some other reasons, because it might have a behavioral effect if you did, but it would be very administratively very, very difficult to implement such a tax and also find out what CO2 Again a tax that on paper sounds reasonable but won't work in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140921	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. So we move on to the rapporteur's speeches. First, it's sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208140928	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for raising this debate. I would say that we in the Social Democratic Party fully agree with the alternative that we need to increase our ambitions in the area of climate change and that we also need to ensure that our food leaves a less impression on the climate than they do today. The social democracy does not support the concrete model proposed by the alternative here, namely a tax on selected meat products, and there are several different reasons for this. The first is that we fear that if we use the tax tool too much, it simply has a negative social side. We run the risk that some of those who, paradoxically, have less share in climate change because they consume less because they simply have a lower income bear a very large part of the cost of the changeover. And it is also clear, as the Minister of Taxation has also said, that the budget of a so-su assistant does of course mean more than a director if there is a levy on beef. So for that reason, I think we should be careful not to exaggerate the tax instrument. I would say that I also think that we have a responsibility to bring people together in the climate struggle, and I fear a little that if you go very far down this road, you also risk some of the trends, fortunately not to the same extent as you see in France and elsewhere. Here, in fact, it is excise duties that have led to very large demonstrations and that a group of people feel that they are, as it were, being placed on the wrong team, if you may say so, and that there are some in parliament or elsewhere in society who say that there is a right way to live your life, and this is how it is. So we fear that we are really dividing people up by individualising responsibility. And then I'll move on to some of the other reasons. Because if I'm to be honest, I'm not sure we can save the climate this way either. And this is simply because we are actually too many of us in the Folketing including, because we have a relatively high income that will continue to be able to afford to eat that meat. That is why, in reality, we risk creating a gap between those who can afford it and those who cannot afford it, and we will continue to consume meat in a way that is unsustainable. And that is why we would rather look at how we regulate and ensure that agriculture emits less climate gas in its production of the meat, because then we will ensure that there is indeed an effect on the climate, namely by reducing the pressure on the climate in production. I would like to say that it is uplifting to hear the tax minister. It was just that the tax minister was more progressive reading various articles from the media in order to find ways of reducing emissions from agricultural production • almost also more than the Minister for the Environment and Food and the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate were yesterday when we had a consultation on it. For what we are hearing from the government right now is unfortunately that there is very little that can be done in terms of reducing the climate impact of agriculture. And I guess that's where we think it's... on what the tax minister referred to, namely a change in the composition of feed and a different integration of manure into the barns, and there could be many things that could be addressed. Very obvious is the land reform, which was also proposed yesterday by Agriculture & Food and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association in association as a very effective way of storing more CO2 2 So we do not support the motion for a resolution; we do not do so, both because we fear that a tax hits socially wrong, but also because we fear that there are too many people with so much money, both in Denmark and worldwide, that one can risk still away from overuse. It's just a few people who do it. And we do not want to create the division of the population, which is also taken down as and perceived as if, if you feel that when you do not eat meat so often and cannot afford to buy the expensive meat, you are being disproportionately hit by a tax that actually ends up not saving the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141357	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141359	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. It was exciting to get around the various instruments. I agree that we also have to work with the industry itself in order to have a reduction out there, and we also have a number of proposals for this in our climate action. The social side is all about taxes. This also applies to the tobacco tax, the tax on ice cream, we have a tax on ice-cream, the tax on petrol and other forms of energy, etc. We have a long tradition in Denmark of having taxes on some things, and we will then solve that by having a social policy at the same time, where we make some compensation so that it can become a relatively equal society we have in Denmark. Does the rapporteur not agree that social policy is something that is at stake and that can be used to support such things as taxes and that, for example, if we impose a tax on some meat, we can do so? Is there any charge on vegetables? We propose, for example: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141510	It is clear that today, with socialist support, we also have a number of taxes on various products. What we are warning against is that we believe that all the problems that exist can be solved through the tax instrument. And it's really both positive and negative. Because it is about a limit on how far we can drive the tax tool in relation to the social balance that we want. But it is also a question, and I hear the tax minister say this a little bit, that either these taxes are relatively small if they are to be socially sustainable, but then they are also a little ineffective, because then you do not get the people who have enough money to react to them or they have to be very high and very exclusive to those who have the least money, that is to say if you have to have enough money to think about skipping the steak. So it is really because I think it is an imprecise tool for what we want to do, namely to ensure a lower climate load from our food production. And that is where we think it is, and that is also the way it is in politics; we also need to focus on what kind of tool it is that we believe is most effective and that we are getting further with the structural approach to agricultural production and that it is fairer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141624	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141625	Yes, but I am thinking a little of the fact that we had an example, I think it was in 2007, when the green ownership tax was introduced on cars. And there you actually saw a rather rapid reaction out there, where people started buying smaller cars, simply because it was now graduated, how high the tax you had to pay, depending on whether it was an A-marked, B-marked or C-marked car, i.e. how far it runs on a litre of gasoline. And it's kind of the same thing we want here on meat. We start with what has the highest climate load and put a tax there. And then we will have a change down to chicken meat perhaps or to vegetables to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141706	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141707	There is our comment on the fact that on paper and in theory it may well be a way to move consumption. But we do not believe that we can do so with the price signals the rapporteur sends, unless we want to make a very high tax, which then has a very high social impact. In fact, we believe that the climate effect that we agree we want to achieve can be achieved more effectively by making structural changes and regulating production and ensuring that some of the good tools available in agriculture today are spread to some more, so that we reduce the climate load.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141744	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208141800	The motion for a resolution here, B 58, tabled by the alternative, is, as has already been pointed out in the debate, to introduce a consumption levy on beef, veal and lamb of DKK 17. per kg. I do not think that I am creating the great shock by announcing that the Danish People's Party has decided to oppose the motion for a resolution. We are for a number of reasons, and I can hear that my predecessors here on the platform have used some of the same arguments that I have also taken a position on. It is primarily about the fact that the resolution here in practice will have a very uneven social distribution. It will be the case that most Danes with good incomes will be completely unaffected by the proposal here and will just pay the 17 DKK. extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra We do not think this is a fair way of distributing the burden, and for this reason alone we are opposed to the proposal. It can be said that in practice we also believe that it will have a very limited climate effect, precisely because the tax has a level in which a great many will continue to live as they usually do, and thus the tax will only have a fiscal effect, i.e. an instrument to get more money in the treasury. It can also be imagined that the proposal here will lead to an increase in meat trade. There is already an intensive trade at the Danish-German border, and probably also with Sweden with many goods which are subject to different taxes between countries. It was obvious, then, that beef would be a cross-border commodity. When the Danes are still in Germany to buy beer and soft drinks, you also fill the trunk with lots of beef. So it will also affect Danish retail trade, and for that reason alone we say no to this. Then the tax minister has mentioned that the tax here will be difficult to administer. There have been similar examples of different taxes before, and from my own time as tax rapporteur I remember precisely the fat tax as something of a monster. Fortunately, as rapporteur, you are not part of the Ministry of Taxation and should therefore not be responsible for the practical form of the tax, but only for the reactions that came to it, I have to say that I have been vaccinated against this kind of tax. In the same way with the security of supply tax or the so-called fuel tax, which was also introduced some years ago, when taxes were to be levied on virtually everything that could be burned off, on raft fences, on Christmas trees and other things. So you have to be very careful about introducing new taxes, and that was something that aroused the Danes' anger. Finally, I would like to say that with a proposal like this, there is also a risk of gambling with the support of the Danes for green conversion. This is something I know the alternative is very important. I just think that if you start to intervene so violently in people's everyday lives as to cut them off from eating meat, you lose much of the support for the political project for which the alternative otherwise lives and breathes. So in those words, I must say that the Danish People's Party rejects the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142145	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142147	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions that we want to cut someone off from eating meat, and that is not at all the case, just as it is not the case when you have a tax on petrol, that you then cut people off from driving cars, you just have a slightly higher cost if you make that choice. In the example of the car, people may choose public transport or, where possible, take the bike instead. And that is a bit of what we want to do in parallel with this proposal: to get people to choose to eat a little less meat, at first it cuts beef, to get it down a little, and then maybe to get it on to other kinds of meat or simply to get it to lead to a smaller share of meat and a larger share of vegetables. It is still a meal, and perhaps even a healthier meal. That is why I am surprised that the rapporteur believes that there will be no change in behaviour here. There's a trend going on out there there there are a lot of especially young people, but also families who are trying this to eat less meat off. Does the rapporteur not believe that this could also be done a little wider in the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142250	There is no doubt that excise duties have a behavioural effect on those who can label the tax. And that's exactly the point here. I think people who can afford to go to a restaurant and order a steak for 250 kroner. for 300 grams, probably doesn't care if the steak rises to 256 kroner. for the 300 g. But people with a low income who find it difficult to make their budget stick together will then be affected in relation to their daily food habits and will be forced away from something they want and want to do. Frankly, I do not think that is an instrument that I would like to use. Now the questioner himself mentions the tax on petrol, which also affects people, including their livelihoods. If you are dependent on having a car to drive to work in, you cannot simply switch it out by public transport if there is no public transport in the area where you live. So this is another example of excise duties hitting hard for people who do not have the highest incomes, and we should at least think so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142359	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142400	Yes, and so it is good that we have the social area to make policy in these areas, and there we have plenty of measures in our government programme that will make low-income groups want more money to do good with and thus be able to choose whether or not to buy meat, or perhaps follow this trend, which will be reinforced by a slightly higher price of meat and a lower price of vegetables, then you will be able to buy more vegetables for the same price and get a healthier everyday life. So that's how we really think we're helping people. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142437	I mean, I don't think it helps people politically to decide what to eat, or politically to decide that they shouldn't have the opportunity to eat a particular commodity. It's not helping people. In fact, I find that rather unsympathetic. I am in favour of the free choice, also to choose its own food, and therefore I do not want to impose levies on meat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142459	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142505	Thank you for that, President. After all, we are discussing proposals for a parliamentary decision to introduce a levy on meat from ruminants, and who would ever have thought that it was Fritz and Poul from North Zealand who, through the alternative, would be tabling a motion for a resolution on a poor man's tax, in which the levy on the heart and tongue of beef, the cheap products, would be raised by 70%, while the levy on the tender tender for Fritz and Poul in North Zealand would be increased by approximately 0.4 per cent. Then we know that this tax is totally biased and inappropriate, but then the motion for a resolution introduces that the tax should finance the social battle side of the resolution itself. This is one of the most insane resolutions I have ever seen. This proposal does not actually have any climate proposals. You expect that the meat that you will then not sell quite so much of in Denmark will just go for export. So this whole mindset, as you may hear, is something that the Left cannot approve. In the Left, however, we want these active citizens to be involved in their choice of food, etc., and that is why, as part of our climate action, we have also launched a climate label so that the individual consumer can stand down in the supermarket and look at the climate consequences of the various foods, and so they can be an active player when it comes to this area. This is an extremely important area, but the proposal itself is inappropriate. The climate label actually rusts the Danes and supports them in making enlightened climate-friendly choices. This must be seen in the context of the other challenges we face in the field of food in agriculture, which is a major climate gas emitter, and I therefore welcome the fact that we have already taken many initiatives in general now, both in biogas, CO2 and so on. The government has already announced that these are just the first steps taken and that there will be more in this area by 2030. So I would like to stress once again that this is not a proposal which the Left welcomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142754	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142757	Thank you. It's interesting to discuss this climate label, and I'd like to do that a little bit. Because the government has proposed that we should have proper labelling and, as I understand it in the proposal, we are thinking of such red-yellow-green labelling, in which some products, like a green stamp, in other words that this is a climate-friendly choice and that some may end up at the other end of the scale as a climate-bad choice. But if you are now setting up the scheme a little awkward, which does not end up with a green mark on something that can have a high climate impact, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. How does the government think, how does the rapporteur think that this label should be designed so that it does not become misleading?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208142858	It is my expectation that it will not be a traffic light label that comes on, i.e. red, yellow and green, where we say that there is a green product that you can just buy and that there is a red product that you should not buy. We haven't quite decided yet, it has to be said, but it's my expectation that just like when you turn your food products on your head in the supermarket to see how many proteins there are in that product and how many carbohydrates there are in that product, you will also be able to see here what the climate effect of a product is. Because there are actually also productions here at home, which are major climate gas emitters. It could, for example, be done. be greenhouse productions with heating, it can be tomatoes, cucumbers, and what do I know, which have a greater climate impact by being produced at home than by being put in a truck and transported from southern Europe to Denmark. But that is what a climate label must reflect. So it should not be anything with feelings for a Danish production or anything else, but it should be a brand that reflects where there is a climate load in the transport, but which also reflects that there is a climate load at a production at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143001	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143002	This reassured me, and I am very pleased to hear it, because we have also proposed something that we call a climate declaration, which is precisely a figure where you can see whether it is 8 g or 82 g per day. 100 g or per 100 g kilos. So that would be consumer information. So I'm glad to hear that, and I feel confident to be able to go further in any negotiations on this climate label.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143029	I look forward to that too, as future minister, apparently.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143036	I'm sorry. But then we say thank you to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143043	Thank you. It is interesting to hear about the Left's idea of also adding it to the individual consumer to resolve the climate crisis. It's not enough. We are, of course, some consumers who find pleasure in making the right choices, but we have to do something more than that, and thanks to the alternative for bringing up an important debate here: what we are doing about the intense climate impact caused by animal production. The proposers themselves make several references to sources that underpin the seriousness of the situation. To this I would also like to add that at the end of October, the World Wildlife Fund published a deeply worrying report on the biodiversity of the planet, "Living Planet Report 2018". It completely spells out that over-consumption, agriculture, especially meat and milk production, and other human activities are now pushing the species of the planet and their habitats so hard that the world's nature and ecosystems are completely at their knees. As far as Denmark is concerned, the report states that we have one of the world's heaviest footprints on nature. In other words, we are among the countries that are most damaging to the environment and nature. As a nation, we take more than seven times more out of nature in a year than nature can produce and regenerate itself. Denmark thus has the largest footprint in Europe and is roughly equal to the high-consumption United States or the oil-rich States of Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. So we have to do something, including our meat consumption. However, I do not think it should be exactly this way, as the alternative is now proposing. First of all, and several others have mentioned this, I miss a concrete suggestion as to how the alternative would counteract the social impact of the tax, and the proposers have also mentioned that there were things that could be done in this area through social policy. But secondly, a meat tax will not affect that part of CO2 2 Thirdly, it is also the case that we export a great deal of meat, and that part of CO2 On Wednesday, Enhedslisten will present his climate plan and the rapporteurs present are hereby invited to participate. 14 in the Landstingshall, and the Minister is also welcome and there we have a very good idea of how to solve the challenges with CO2 In our climate plan we also take into account the social battle side that the introduction of different taxes may have. In relation to agricultural meat production, we will introduce a CO2 production of cheese and milk. 80% of the whole of Denmark's agricultural area goes to meat production or to produce feed for animals. In addition, huge lands abroad are used to produce food for Danish animals. In South America, for example, it is used. areas the size of all Sjælland and Falster combined to grow soy for Danish animals. In short, we must do something about the extensive pressure on the climate caused by our meat production. However, if we are to support this particular proposal, then there must also be a concrete proposal on how to ensure that it does not only affect citizens with the lowest incomes, and CO2 has to be taken into account. Finally, we must do something about the CO2 Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143510	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143514	Thank you. After all, it is a pleasure to hear the rapporteur's recognition of the size of the problem, and I think that there is a little about what is actually going to solve what problems. What we want to do with a climate tax on meat in the consumer base is to change the behaviour of people, in other words to make people choose meat a little less often and choose something else instead, and we start with beef, which is the highest climate load. I imagine, because we have a desire for a green tax reform, that there will be more products along the way once we have tried it out. Then there comes the chopped meat, then there may be some dairy products, and then there comes rice and other things that have a high climate impact. At the same time, we want to change it so that vegetables become cheaper and in this way we can move consumption both in a healthier and less climate-laden direction. Then we would also like to work on agriculture as a sector, and that is why it is a number of other things that are important to us. But I think it's also important to look at CO2 We know that this is a pretty difficult thing to deal with, because it typically also has to cross borders. So what does the rapporteur think in this context of the proposal for a CO2 How will it be dealt with? Should it be at EU level, or can you just do it in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143644	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143645	Thank you. After all, we have major challenges, and it is not enough that we are just doing something in Denmark. So the rapporteur fully agrees that we cannot just do something in Denmark; we must also include other countries. In the Enhedslisten we are also concerned about moving people's meat consumption, and our idea of putting the tax on the farm led is that it will also have an expensive effect in the consumption led. So that thought is also close to Enhedslisten's idea of what to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143731	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143733	Thank you. The rapporteur then asked whether it would be possible to find out something that would compensate for some of the social side of the battle. In fact, this is something we write in the comments on our proposal, that is to say that we are going to have some of the revenue to go to, and in our own proposal we have a number of measures to ensure that the low-income groups get more money between their hands. So we can figure that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143756	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143757	I have also noted that in the proposal. It is not so specific, but we can then go along with it. I'm thinking we're a lot on the line here. We think we have a better proposal than this, which then goes further. So perhaps we should just welcome the fact that we have something and that we want to do the same, and I hope that we can get something in place so that we can have people's consumption of meat brought down a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143835	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208143840	Thank you for the floor. In the Liberal Alliance, we are of course pleased with the energy agreement that all the parties in the Folketing signed this summer, with the goal that in 2050 Denmark should be net neutral, and we are also pleased with the impression that we ourselves think we have got into the agreement, which is more focused on getting some private capital into the green transition, i.e. that it will be more market driven. So we think this issue is generally important, and contrary to what the rumors might say, it is not the case that we are against all taxes. We think, for example, that taxes on negative externalities are not a problem and that it is a sensible thing to have. But we are also in favour of a rational tax system and a rational tax system. So, although there are some very worthy objectives here, we have the same concerns as the tax minister has mentioned and as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, so this tax proposal is technically not a very good proposal. There are problems with substitution, there is the whole question of the social battle side, and there we do not think that this is a particularly good solution in saying that it compensates for it by means of social policy. For experience shows that if I may use a metaphor that brings money from the citizens into the state and out again is very leaking. Well, there is a lot of money lost by transferring money in that process itself. There are large transaction costs. So although the objective of reaching 2050 in a net neutral state is an agreement in which both our parties are involved, and that is a perfectly reasonable objective, and although it is also sensible to have taxes on negative externalities, then there is also some tax and tax-technical craftsmanship that should be in place, and we simply do not think that this proposal is an expression of that. That is why we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144122	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144126	Thank you. I am pleased to hear the rapporteur say that the rapporteur's party can see a purpose in which taxes can weigh out negative externalities, that is, social costs, which the market itself cannot see, can then be built in by means of a tax. That, in fact, is exactly what we have done. One can read in the comments that we have calculated ourselves for the 17 DKK. That's not 10 kroner. or 20 kr., it is 17 kr., because that is how you can count back what the climate load actually costs society in the future. We think that is the healthy way to regulate the free market economy to what it cannot see itself. Then the rapporteur also says that there is a desire for a rational tax system. We actually think that here we have a fairly well-defined group of products, which are well-known, as you know from the supermarket, you know that you can always get that calf roast and that. It would be relatively simple to say 17 kroner. for the pr. kg and 17 DKK. for the pr. kg, and we're on it. Couldn't that make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144234	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144236	I think that the Minister for Taxation has actually explained this very well, in other words that there will be some transaction costs for mixed products, and there will be some border cases of one kind or another that will make it very difficult. The horror example you always take is the nut fees, where almost every nut variety you could think of had its own tax level, and when you make nut mixes, you had to sit and do very, very complicated calculations with large spreadsheets, and any benefits that might be with the tax disappeared in these transaction costs. So when tax department professionals warn about high transaction costs, it's something that I and we take seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144324	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144326	We are thinking of starting with the simple things where there are no mixtures, and in this way it is relatively simple in my view. Of course, mixed products can become more complicated. The rapporteur also mentions that the rapporteur is very pleased with the energy agreement and that, of course, we have an overall objective, which we all agree on, in 2050. Does the rapporteur really believe that there are instruments on the table today in agreements which will make agriculture, and in particular the high level of meat production in agriculture, start seriously with the conversion to much lower climate pressures?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144401	I think that for the instruments that are coming we will see that they will come at an accelerated rate, i.e. the amount of instruments will not be proportionally distributed between now and 2050. There are several good instruments closer to 2050 because we have a technological development. I really appreciate that curve of technological development. It is, of course, the one that paves the way for a market-based conversion, and that is also what has been seen with wind turbines. So we believe that the greatest improvements come in the years 2040-5050, and there we will see a lot there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144444	Thank you for that and then we move on to a new rapporteur. Radical Left does not appear to be present. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144503	As our rapporteur, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, cannot be present, on behalf of the SF, I have to say the following: the proposers are right in saying that climate pollution from agriculture is a very big problem. An overall estimate shows that agriculture alone accounts for 30%. of our climate pollution. Well enough, agriculture reduced their climate gas emissions between 1990 and approx. 2010, but since then it has largely stagnated. Before Denmark can become a low-carbon country, climate pollution needs to be significantly reduced, but this will not happen without something significant happening in agriculture. Therefore, the SF has also presented a climate agriculture plan that will reduce emissions by at least 25%. in 2030. It also has a number of other environmental benefits. It is a question of afforestation, of taking out the land most polluted by climate, of treating all the barn shells and of a number of other proposals. These are concrete proposals which should be adopted as soon as possible. At the same time, it is true that Danes should reduce their meat consumption, especially of red meat, and there are good health reasons and good climate reasons for this. We are already seeing trends towards a fall in meat consumption. Should we not then make a climate tax on meat? There are arguments for this, but it is very important to formulate it correctly. SF prefers a charge on climate load at the production stage. This will give farmers an incentive to find ways to produce meat with lower climate footprints, and there are methods for this. Let me just mention that a cattle farmer who goes from using uncertified imported soya to using Danish cultivated feed and also provides biogasification of the manure will significantly reduce the climate impression. In short, a tax should hit the actual climate load rather than the average. And so it is wrong to involve some food, but not others. For example: some cheeses have almost as high a climate footprint as beef. It is not quite easy to make a tax that hits really climatewise, and it is important for popular understanding as well. That is why the SF has proposed setting up a commission to look at how we can influence consumption and, incidentally, also the waste of food, including the possibility of creating a tax that hits properly where the handling of imports and exports is also a challenge. We do not think it is appropriate to make a tax in a hurry which does not affect the way in which beef and lamb are produced, especially in a situation in which many people are actually adapting their meat consumption. There are better ways of dealing with the climate pollution of agriculture, but we are happy to contribute to a report on the work of the Commission, as previously described, which, as the authors of the proposal mention, must also examine the distributional consequences of a tax and how those with small incomes can be compensated. However, we are opposed to the proposal as it stands, although the intentions are good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144805	Thank you. A comment from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144810	Thank you. I understand that the SF would like to work on reducing the industry itself, agriculture in particular, and I think this is commendable. We'd like that, too. I would just like to know if it is true that you really want to look at possible taxes, but that you want to let a commission dive into it and then make some wise suggestions about it. Is that how it was supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144833	Yes, it must be understood that it is part of an overall strategy in relation to this, but that we need to examine how it can be designed if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144846	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208144851	Thank you. And thank you for the alternative to the resolution and for giving us the opportunity to have a debate on it here today. We have a common goal in this matter: we must ensure that Denmark becomes CO 2 11⁄2 degree temperature increase. And these are important objectives which also require us to use many different instruments. However, there has not been much support for the alternative proposal in the Chamber today, but it is of course relevant enough to discuss it anyway. And we will not be supporting this motion for a resolution from the Conservative side either. There are a number of different reasons why we reject it, and I do not want to make any groundbreaking points which have not already been on the table in the debate, but let me go through it anyway, for the sake of good order. Basically, we Conservatives do not want it to be more expensive to be a Dane. We are one of the world's hardest-taxed people, and we really think basically that when we are such a heavily taxed people, we should also be able to give priority to climate action in the funds that are being demanded over the tax ticket already today. We politicians have a responsibility to ensure that the tax dollars we get are also used to prioritise climate action. We do not think that we should invent new taxes in order to finance it. Therefore, we think that a tax of DKK 17. per kg of meat is a significant increase in taxation, and we are, in fact, fighting a great many taxes in other areas, so it would be a little illogical to support this. We have also given priority from the state to efforts to reduce CO2 We can easily adjust up on that account, and I would like to take this opportunity to look at how we can do that, but, as several have said, we have set aside 90 million. kr. in a pool to look at which initiatives can help reduce CO2 Then the tax minister said that this will be a bureaucratic monster, and yet I have some respect for it when the tax minister, who has been the tax minister for the last 1,000 days and, I suppose, has experienced a bit of each, says that something becomes a bureaucratic monster. Then my experience is that you have to listen. And there were also some excellent examples of why this is not so straightforward to calculate. In addition, we are already seeing a very, very interesting development in this area. For example: Net product called Naturli' Hack, which is plant-based father's, and they have seen an increase of 5%. on the product in a short time. And the interesting thing is that among those who buy the product, only 12% are vegetarians. So there is actually a very large part of the Danes who are not necessarily vegetarian, but who want to think about their meat consumption because they know that there is a climate footprint of meat. And I think this is a fine example of how the Danes have been enlightened about this. And if I'm to congratulate the alternative for one thing, it must be that you've helped focus on the fact that there is a climate footprint of meat. Then it may be that we disagree as to whether we should act on it politically, but you have helped to raise the Danes' awareness of it. I also think it is great to have a labelling of products, not only meat, but also other products, in relation to the climate impression, because more and more Danes are interested in making an informed choice. Then it may be that there are some who choose to completely disregard that marking because it is not a priority for them. It is their choice, but there are many citizens today who want to take this into account when they put goods in the shopping basket, and we have to give them that opportunity. Then there is the whole social battle side, which is certainly also an important argument in this whole debate. Then I think that my Socialist colleague Mr. Jens Joel had an excellent point of view in relation to this with popular support. I can also fear that if, for example, we start doing something like this, popular support will crumble. Recently I saw a comprehensive analysis from Danish Energy, I think it was who said that popular resistance to wind turbines cost extremely much in relation to our ability to achieve different objectives. And that is simply proof that we must also take public opinion quite seriously when it comes to the climate, and I think that public opinion will be very hard on this issue. So these are just a number of examples of why we, the Conservative People's Party, cannot support this resolution. However, we thank the alternative for focusing on this and for having contributed to raising the debate on the climate footprint that is about meat and then people can make their choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145319	Thank you. There are a few brief comments from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Even if it's Friday afternoon, we don't need direct charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145327	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur started by talking about this high tax burden and therefore we should not have any additional taxes. Is that how it is in general? Because you could also work to raise some taxes, especially climate taxes, and then lower other things with less climate footprints, where it could then be cheaper, and then make sure that the general tax burden did not necessarily increase. In other words, the charges could be used in a targeted manner. Is the Conservative People's Party also opposed to this in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145402	Thank you. And I'm sorry, President, if I used direct charges. It must be the mother's brain that's just going back into the game. To Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist I would say that we in the Conservative People's Party are not generally against taxes. And we are not against using charges to regulate behaviour; that is what we have them for. For example, we have proposed in our party to raise the tax on cigarettes so that a pack of cigarettes will cost DKK 60, because we know that this will have a significant effect on the fact that significantly fewer young people will start smoking. At the same time, we have also said that the money that comes into the revenue we want to lighten other taxes, because we do not want the Danes to be taxed more heavily overall, not even through taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145439	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145441	Should I understand that the Conservative People's Party will then be positive about more general climate taxes or CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145452	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145452-2	Well, in the Conservative People's Party, we want people to be able to make an informed choice, and that is something that this labelling system first and foremost ensures. Then it may well be that we will have to discuss in principle in the future whether we should be able to see more CO2 but DKK 17. For 1 kg of minced beef, we certainly do not believe in the Conservative People's Party is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145517	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145520	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for recognising that we have put the climate at the top of the agenda. The most important thing for us is to resolve the climate crisis as quickly as possible. I note that the rapporteur says that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, and I would like to say that this is just one of many proposals we have. We also have a proposal to halve VAT on vegetables, and that is precisely because vegetables are one of the healthy food groups with a very low climate load, so we would like to move consumption over there. This means that if you eat as usual, it may be that the meat becomes a little more expensive, while the vegetables become a little cheaper. It's hard to say where you land, but the whole purpose of this exercise is to get people to slow down the consumption of meat, that is to say buy a little less meat, a little more green, so we get pushed to development. I also understand the rapporteur's recognition of charges can do just that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145621	I fully acknowledge that, but I do not recognise that that is what will happen in this case, because unfortunately I share the concern that I have heard many of my fellow Members have, namely that a tax of DKK 17. will mean that the very many Danes who can afford it, and for whom it will not feel like a huge extra burden, although that percentage is a very large increase, will continue to consume meat in exactly the same way, whereas it will hit some other income groups much, much harder. I don't think you want to see such a significant behavior regulation out of this tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145651	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145653	It is generally recognised that taxes create a change in behaviour, and that is what we want. After all, we have calculated the level of this charge according to the climate strain on meat. So what we're trying to do is make an objective amount of the tax that reflects this social strain that's on the meat. I do not understand, the rapporteur says that no change in behaviour is expected, because general studies show that tax changes lead to such a change in behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145730	Of course, there will be some degree of change in behaviour, but we can also look at the taxes that we have today, that there is a world which varies according to how significant they are, depending on the type of tax it is, depending on how clear the tax is in the product, because there are significantly different implications. I believe that a great many people will continue to have the same meat consumption, but you will see a great social battle side. But that is just one of the several arguments I have listed for why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145759	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145803	I'm actually gonna go on a little bit along the same lines as mr. Christian Poll, namely about it with behavioral changes. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that the method of whip in relation to levying a levy on meat is not the right way to go, but one could then consider the carrot method and just as Mr. Christian Poll mentions, make it cheaper to buy vegetables. What is the rapporteur's position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145833	Well, I must be honest to admit that my party, through our more than 100-year history, has had many different views on differentiated VAT on fruit and vegetables. In a way, I can easily see the positive side of it. The use of the carrot would actually make that there were some Danes who got a little cheap when they had to go down to the store. There has been concern in the past about the bureaucracy in it, about the administrative aspects of it. That is at least some of the things that have prevented us from fully supporting it in the past. I do not know whether the Treasury has found a better way of organizing it today, whether it will be practically possible, or whether it will still be bureaucratic trouble. I do not know, but in principle I can support the thinking. But we should also remember the critical glasses, shouldn't we? For fruit and vegetables are not just fruit and vegetables. There is a difference in whether it is something that has been imported and out of season and has cost a fortune in CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190208145935	I mean, I'm really sorry to be a little uncomfortable up here on Friday afternoon, but the jugs I think we should stop saying, Mrs Mette Abildgaard. But we take it easy, Mrs Mette Abildgaard has also just returned from maternity leave, so we bear with each other here. No one else has asked for brief comments here, yes, Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go. It just didn't pop in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150000	Yes, I had pressed in, but I did so at the end of the rapporteur's speech. Now I almost get whipped out of it, but it was to make it clear in relation to the climate load of vegetables imported that it is not so criminal with an imported vegetable if we are talking about CO2 So the rapporteur should not worry so much about that part. The positive effect that could be of getting people to buy more fruit and vegetables will not be harmful in terms of climate if we manage to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150052	Thank you, President. Looks like there's more of us tired out here in the afternoon, but we're all gonna have to tighten up. It is quite true that the print is relatively smaller compared to meat. I fully acknowledge that. However, when the whole climate debate is focused on eating seasonalally, it is also done for climate reasons. But I am aware that relative to meat is not the decisive factor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150114	Thank you. There will then be no more comments, and that is why it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150123	Denmark is the country in the world that produces the most meat per year. The population, namely 360 kg per year, and the large Danish meat production is primarily sold for export. However, we also have very high domestic meat consumption, and according to the UN Food Organisation, FAO, we eat 95 kg of meat per year. This is something we want to address with this proposal. The very highest climate strain in our diet is linked to the production and consumption of meat and, in particular, meat from ruminants. In the alternative, we have an overall desire to implement a kind of green tax reform. We would like to review our consumption, our products in Denmark to identify all the places where there is a very high climate load, and then we will look at how we can dampen the consumption of those particular product groups. Why do we want to do that? We will, because the climate crisis is the biggest crisis of our time, and it is not enough to reconstruct our energy system; it is not enough to look at transport, and it is not enough to make an effort in agriculture; we are also very concerned about the current efforts in agriculture; it is also necessary to look at our consumption. And there we can just see that meat consumption is one of the things that has the greatest climate impact. Then we have this proposal, and it is based on a scientific calculation of the climate load by producing and consuming 1 kg of meat, and society's climate load is therefore what is to be compensated for by meat production can be estimated at DKK 17. 1 kg of beef, and that is why we have proposed that level of the levy. I can see from the debate here today that there is little support. In fact, no party has accepted this proposal, but there are several parties that recognise that taxes can have an effect. In fact, the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance said that there may be a point that taxes can go in and compensate for the externalities that are, in other words, what the market cannot see, in the price of a product. I think that is positive, because there is recognition that taxes are a tool that works. Many people also question it, but I just want to say that it is a tool that we have been using in Denmark for many years. We have it in the field of energy, which is packed with taxes that adjust consumption and ensure that there is a good distribution of which forms of energy are chosen, and it is also the taxes that are often used in this context to shift the consumption of energy from one form of energy to another because, for some reason, the old form of energy is undesirable, while the new one is the one we would like to have instead. We also have taxes on tobacco. After all, it is one of the standing discussions that comes up regularly, and a great many parties here are helping to increase the tax on tobacco. We are in general, because tobacco is harmful, especially for young people, and taxes have a direct effect, as can be seen from the health level in Denmark. And there I would just like to say that the climate crisis is basically no longer different from that, because it is so violent effects that we will see from the climate crisis if we do not resolve it that we will almost be able to talk about the consumption of products with a high climate impact directly affecting the climate. Then there are some who have questioned the social side of taxation and have perhaps made a bit of a fuss about the fact that we in the alternative are creating a greater social inequality in this proposal. This is indeed a mockery, because, generally speaking, taxes will always work in this way, because everyone pays the same taxes for a product, and there it is in that way that we make up for this sort of thing in social policy, and there in our programme we have a number of proposals which are social policy and which will give the low-income groups, which are highlighted as the ones for which it will be a problem here, considerably more money to do well every month. They can then be used to continue eating meat, but we hope that the slightly higher price of meat will be seen as a signal that perhaps you should buy less meat, eat less meat, quietly cut down on your meat consumption and more replace it with vegetables. A healthier diet is also provided, because the Danes eat a lot of meat, and the WHO has actually estimated that the amount of meat we eat is not at a healthy level. Healthy levels are much lower, i.e. between 70 and 100 grams of meat per day. So, all in all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I understand that there is an interest in discussing the subject further, perhaps not directly in connection with this proposal, but several parties have shown interest in looking at a way of reducing meat consumption and, in particular, to dampen the high production of meat we have in Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150734	Thank you. No one else has any comments, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150748	The debate is open. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208150806	Thank you. The authors of the Enhedslisten want the Danish Members of the European Parliament to be taxed on their so-called addition to general expenditure. Specifically, Enhedslisten proposes that the supplement be taxed to the extent that it cannot be demonstrated that it has been used for work related expenditure. The Enhedslisten also wants the government to create a voluntary national register where the Danish parliamentarians can document how they have used their supplement for general expenditure. Let me start by saying that, as a government, it is perfectly legitimate that Members of the European Parliament, like members of the Folketing, should be covered by the costs associated with their profession. It can, for example, be done. be for the rental of office in the constituency of the member, internet connection, relevant subscriptions, office equipment, etc. I think it is very regrettable that the issue of supplementing general expenditure continues to shadow the important political work that is actually going on every day in the European Parliament. And it is a pity that the subject risks drawing attention to the many major political issues that deserve to be discussed prior to the parliamentary elections in May. As public funds are involved, there should, of course, be transparency about the use of the money. It's in everyone's interest. At the same time, it is clear that this is essentially a European problem which must be resolved by the European Parliament itself in the same way that Parliament has actually managed to resolve problems relating to Members' salaries, taxation and travel expenses in the past. It is therefore also positive that the European Parliament recently decided that a platform should now be established on Parliament's website, where Members can voluntarily provide evidence of the use of the General Expenditure Supplement. It is the right way to go ahead with a patchwork of national registers and special schemes which Enhedslisten is proposing and which will, moreover, require far too many administrative resources and create even more bureaucracy. The government will therefore encourage the European Parliament to continue to work towards a European solution for the addition of general expenditure, which will create full transparency on the use of funds for specific expenditure related to the profession. In view of the Enhedslisten's desire to require the government to take the initiative that the supplement be subject to national income tax, neither can the government support the resolution. In short, this is due to the fact that such national taxation would be contrary to EU law, as has already been stated by the European Court of Justice. The Minister for Taxation replied back in October to an almost identical question in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe on which a motion for a resolution has now been tabled. In line with the reply given by the Minister of Taxation, I can state that the European Court of Justice has ruled that the supplement cannot be subject to national income tax unless it can be demonstrated, in accordance with EU law, that the supplement is in itself unduly high and that this is, in fact, a disguised remuneration. According to the European Court of Justice, national courts do not have the opportunity to review that issue for the sake of Parliament's autonomy. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. The Government will encourage the European Parliament to continue its work to ensure full transparency on the use of the funds and to use the existing opportunities to provide documentation. I can then personally add that I myself sat in the European Parliament and was, I think, the first Danish parliamentarian to produce documentation specifically for the use of these funds, including all the annexes. It's something you could follow up on. I know that Mrs Rina Ronja Kari does so, in part at least. I have a document here in which the cost compensation for Mrs Rina Ronja Kari has been explained, however, in some very general headings, four or five different lines. I don't know if there's full public access to all the annexes below this number. But what is also interesting to see is that Mrs Rina Ronja Kari is capable of hitting the exact consumption that you have the opportunity to have. And then there is nothing to tax when the money is spent anyway. So when even such an EU critical Member, even in relation to the budgets, as Mrs Rina Ronja Kari is able to spend all the money, I have to assume that it is because there is a need for the money, and then there will be nothing to tax. With those comments, I would like to make a further appeal on my part to follow up that example. Put the figures forward and perhaps make it part of the electoral promises made to the citizens in connection with the European Parliament elections. Then there is the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151302	Thank you. We were just discussing whether this could be referred to Mrs Rina Ronja Kari, but he is not a private person, and I am sure that Mr. Søren Søndergaard can answer if there is anything. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151316	I can only call on the Secretary of State to get to grips with the matter before the Secretary of State speaks. After all, there are certainly a number of officials present who can provide the Foreign Minister with a text message on his phone, and then the Foreign Minister can go up and comment on what the Foreign Minister has just said. But let's just leave it alone. What matters here is that this is only a problem because it continues. In other words, it is only a problem because it continues, and that is not the fact that those who are active and do a job make a contribution to the political work of the European Parliament. Well, that's quite all right, isn't it? This is the fact that the possibility exists to get an income, a considerable income we are talking about DKK 400 000. a year without any evidence, tax-free. This discussion will only follow as long as that problem is allowed to continue. Then the Minister says, and that is my real business, that this will be a special rule, a special rule in Denmark. Can the Minister tell us whether there is a Danish special rule as regards the taxation of Danish mep's wages or whether we are subject to exactly the same conditions as the rest of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151430	The latter is implicit in the answer. There are the rules that apply. I refer to the answer that has come from the tax minister in relation to what is the case today. I don't know what to say. I assume that the questioner agrees that it is the case that Rina Ronja Kari mentions figures publicly and I have not even mentioned the figures and that, funny enough, you are hitting exactly the consumption you have the opportunity to use. You spend all the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151505	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151506	I am pleased that the Minister has to confirm that the rules governing wages are special rules that we have in Denmark which differ from those in other EU countries. So when it comes to wages, you've made special rules, but when it comes to this pencil money, you don't want to make special rules. What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151528	The reason is that we must follow the legislation that exists and the legislation that exists in the European Union does not allow us to do so in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151537	Thank you, and then there are no further comments to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. It's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151557	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten also for this motion for a resolution in a large number of cases, towards the European Parliament elections. First of all, I should like to say that we acknowledge the principle of the issue raised here by Enhedslisten. We in the Socialist Group are in favour of maximum openness and control of these funds. At the same time, however, we also believe that it is a battle that must be fought in the European Parliament, and it is the Bureau of the European Parliament that lays down these rules, and we in the Folketing can neither begin to legislate on it nor lay down those rules. At the same time, we refer to a reply from the Minister of Taxation to question No. 7 of 3 October 2018, in which the Treasury concludes that it is not possible to make and there is simply no legal basis for the type of proposal that Enhedslisten is proposing here to tax the pencil money that is considered an income. I can say so much on the part of the Social Democratic Party that none of the Socialist Members of the European Parliament regard this money as an income. They're being used alone for the office team that is. Having said that, we would like to see a completely different approach to this by the European Parliament's administration at all. It would be much easier if the administrative costs, or at least the vast majority of them, were to be incurred in the same way as in a parliament like the Danish Parliament, where there are joint purchases, where there is joint control, etc., and where what is paid to individual Members is at the absolute minimum. That would make many things easier, and I also think it would increase popular legitimacy, but we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal • not because we are against openness, not because we are against control, but simply because there is no legal basis that makes it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151800	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151803	No, but at least there is no need for a legal basis in relation to the fact that all Danish Members of the European Parliament produce an account plus all the supporting documents and make them available; that is certainly possible for everyone. Then I just want to know if the Social Democratic Party has an internal rule that this also applies to all Social Democratic Meps.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151829	So, in the Socialist Group of the European Parliament, we are keeping an account of what this expenditure is being spent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151839	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151840	I just want to ask again: does there exist an account of the 400,000 kroner? per Social Democratic meps are therefore the money paid out which is available with supporting documents?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151856	I am at present uncertain whether that account is being posted on some website so that any citizen can go in and see it. But an account is kept which I know journalists sometimes ask for insight into, and they usually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151921	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208151928	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you to Enhedslisten for having made a very relevant proposal here in the Danish Parliament, which we from the Danish People's Party can of course support. In general terms, I would say that the Danish People's Party considers it wrong that money should be paid out to parliamentarians who are not taxed. And to the extent that it happens in the European Parliament, where, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard just pointed out, is about an amount in the order of DKK 400 000. It is, after all, a very, very large amount of money per year. It merely underlines that the European Parliament is in many ways rich in money, because in addition to that there are DKK 400 000. It is true that when Members appear and sign the book which, as I understand it, is in a locked office, they receive 2 200 kroner. in diets which are also tax-free. And so it is if a European parliamentarian attends a meeting here at Christiansborg organized by the Danish Parliament; then you also sign up and receive a diet on those 2200 DKK. It can all sum up to a great deal of money, and I think it makes quite a lot of Danes think that it is unreasonable and that it is not fair that you should receive so much money without paying tax on them. Well, then, I'd like to give Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is rather right in saying that the way in which the European Parliament has organised itself is not appropriate. I mean, like... the fact that you have to pay, as far as I understand, in the order of DKK 10,000-12,000. In order to be able to go down a year and seek help in an IT department, it seems a little altomodisch, to put it as it is. Well, the Folketing couldn't really work very well here if we had to have separate PCs that weren't necessarily linked to a common system and if we couldn't visit our IT hotline when we had some problems. In other words, we should do away with this and then abolish all that money and instead say to the parliamentarians who are sitting down there that they will of course be equipped with a computer and that they will be able to visit an IT hotline without having to pay for it. Anything else is really nonsense. We also agree, of course, with the Enhedslisten that this proposal does not mean introducing a special rule which is different from the fact that Members of Parliament are taxed differently because they are taxed in accordance with the rules which are now in force in their Member States. And thus, some also pay more in tax than other euro parliamentarians will probably pay more in tax than most, and that is the way it is. By the way, I don't think they're suffering any distress at all. It must also be said that when it comes to those pencil money and the way the EU wants them to be held, it is absurd to make a so-called 'List of expenses' which may be defrayed from the General Expenditure Allowance (GEA), as it says in the correct EU language, where there are some things, but in fact not very many things, because it starts by saying that the list below is not exhaustive. No, I don't think it is either. And it is also the kind of thing that makes it extremely difficult to gain insight into what that money is or is not used for. Many of the things that are listed in the General Expenditure Allowance are, after all, things that I think the European Parliament should rightly be expected to hold in some way, rather than giving Members of Parliament this DKK 400 000. So we have to say that in this proposal we are very much in agreement with the Enhedslisten. We would, of course, prefer it to be something which the European Parliament itself was able to resolve, capable of managing, but we must also say that there is a great deal of evidence to suggest that this cannot be done. So this debate is not new in the European Parliament, it has been taken many times in the European Parliament, and it seems that when you reach the finish line, you get cold feet and nothing happens anyway. If that is not the case, then we think that what Enhedslisten is proposing here should be done. That is why we can also support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152417	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, so we move on to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152434	Thank you for that, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten wants the Danish Members of the European Parliament to be taxed on their addition to general expenditure to the extent that it cannot be demonstrated that the money has been spent on work-related expenditure. However, Denmark cannot decide to do so, according to the ruling of the European Court of Justice. The Enhedslisten proposers also want the government to establish a national register in which the Danish members can document how they have used their supplement. This desire reflects what the European Parliament has just adopted, which we think is in the right direction. That is why the Left does not welcome the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152524	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152532	Thank you. For many years I lived professionally as a lecturer, and it meant 70-80 annual performances, where I often had to be hundreds of kilometres from where I lived at that time. And, of course, I paid taxes on my fees, but I would have found it quite wrong if I had been taxed by my driving fee, because it reflects the costs that I had to come from my residence in Copenhagen to Aarhus or Aalborg, and where I had laid out for the organisers. If you were completely indifferent to bureaucracy, you could, in theory, abolish the pencil money and introduce a system in which the money you put out was then refunded in some rules. And that refund would be logical if it were tax-free. But now you have instead of an unbureaucratic system where you receive an amount for the type of expenditure you are reimbursed in other contexts, and that is then an amount that is not to be taxed. It is clear that if the pencil money was totally unproportional, so that it was really part of the salary, one might consider taxing the pencil money. But, as far as you can see, the pencil money is not actually disproportionate. That is also what the Foreign Minister mentioned earlier. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152712	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152715	Now Mr. Henrik Dahl an analogy to Mr. Henrik Dahl's own life as a lecturer. I just think it is fair to say that this analogy does not quite stand because the European Parliamentarians are paid for their travels. But it is the case that you announce that you are going on that and that plane and that it costs it and that, and that it is being refunded, how against it, as far as I understand, in the past, was the fact that you almost got it paid after your business tickets, and then you could put the rest in your pocket too. But today, I guess, it's settled, so the pencil money doesn't go to it. It's just that people out there in the living rooms don't get the feeling that this $400,000. e.g. Going to plane tickets. Because they don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152802	The pencil money covers what is called overhead in other contexts. I noticed very well what Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said before about the way we have administered our overheads in the Folketing, which is considerably more sensible than the way you manage overheads by putting it out individually. However, in my view, headers for office teams and in connection with this type of work are therefore a reality. That is something that everyone is running into, and the overheads I simply think it is in principle wrong to tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152839	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152840	Yes, but if sir... Henrik Dahl reads the motion for a resolution and it's not that far. Henrik Dahl also sees that what they want to tax from Enhedslisten is any profits that you cannot prove that you have applied in accordance with the rules that are now in force. So it is not just a question of taxing everything, but it is a question of taxing what has been spent on the purpose, and I think that is actually fine. Then, as a European parliamentarian, to the extent that not all the funds have been used, we could return them to the EU system, as I also know that in some cases our parliamentarians have done, because we simply have not managed to spend all that money. So I don't think you can shoot the proposal down on that account.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152923	The Molmen also needed a man to chase out the stork, and so that he would not step down the grain, they put him on a fence and had eight men to carry him in and chase out the stork. And it is clear that if you set up an administrative system that had very heavy transaction costs, it did not make any sense at all. by Aarhus Municipality's social costs and 15%. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community's financial resources are made available to the Member States in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208152958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153001	I have to admit, I may think it's about where you're in society. I think that most taxpayers think it is entirely on the moon that you can get paid $400,000. tax-free without having to account for them at all. Well, sir. Henrik Dahl really that having to explain to them is bureaucratic? Is it bureaucratic to account for what you spend $400,000? of the tax money for? Do you just need them and use them at will? Mr. Henrik Dahl really?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153035	I think this is a political disagreement. When we had to revise the Services Act, there was a proposal from the then Minister for Social Affairs that Article 100, which covers additional costs for disabled people, could receive an advance payment and then not collect documents and have these annexes stamped and processed and dealt with, something with which there was enormous transaction costs. I thought that was a sensible nonbureaucratic proposal. It was shot down by Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who would rather have the disabled gathered on supporting documents and had them stamped and done so, even though it swallowed an unproportionally large proportion of the administrative costs compared to the amount of the grant itself. So it is a political disagreement as to whether to accept transaction costs or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153119	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153121	I understood the answer as a yes: Yes, sir. Henrik Dahl thinks it's all right that you as a politician get $400,000. tax-free and should not account for them at all. Yes, there is a political difference here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153139	I think, sir. Søren Søndergaard tries to hide that he is not really aware of what transaction costs are and that bureaucratic madness in no way bothers him.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153151	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153159	When you hear the questions that run to the rapporteurs who have been on before, I have to admit that I am getting a little tired. Because it is being spoken of as if all those sitting in the European Parliament take this money and put it in their pockets, and then they run out and buy popsicles or something for them. But what we are talking about is some real costs that people are getting money to cover. Should it be transparent? Yeah, it did. Should there be control of that? Yeah, I actually think there should be. Parliament has not been able to agree with itself on this, but I am aware that a voluntary register has been drawn up in Parliament, which is also described here as having to be made in Denmark, and I think that should be examined before we vote through it. Because if there is already a register of this expenditure at the level of the European Parliament, a similar Danish register will not have to be established. In fact, it should be the case that there were expenses and, if there was money left over, of course, they had to be paid back. Then they won't have to come as an extra salary. If, in fact, we have chosen to be positive about this proposal, it is because there are no rules that could not have been adopted at the level of the European Parliament. So you can look at it nationally as here in Denmark and say: is there a surplus of it? Then I still believe that, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth said that the members of the Danish People's Party did, pay them back. 'Cause it's not pay. It's money for expenses. So that should be the natural starting point for everyone. I also think it is worth saying when you sit and look at the list of what it is that it is also Members of Parliament who work in another country and who have the whole of Denmark as their constituency and who have to go around and do things in Denmark, and that is one of them. What is also covered by it in the list of expenditures that I see as the background to the proposal here. It makes sense for a Member of the European Parliament not only to sit at his apartment in Denmark and then to attend a meeting in Brussels or Strasbourg, but also to be in Denmark and to hold the meetings to be held, to have that contact with the electorate and to create that connection. Then you could set it up in other ways, yes, but you have chosen to do it this way, and we would like to see transparency in that way, so you took account and of course paid back excess money. It's not like that. So the proposal here that tax should be paid seems to us to be quite reasonable if it is withdrawn as a salary. But most importantly, what you do not use should be paid back to Parliament where the money comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153440	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. The rapporteur of the Radical Left is absent. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153502	After all, this is about the so-called pencil money, and I think it is important to say that pencil money is not money that you get to buy pens and pencils for which you can have on your desk, or paper and clips and stuff like that. This is a very large amount of money that the European Parliamentarians are being given to run their business as politicians. It has been very controversial over the years, and there have been such different tightenings along the way. One can discuss back and forth whether it is a system that one should have. I think most people agree that there is what Mr. Henrik Dahl called overhead which is such a bit of a commercial high school term, but let's just use that expression to be an EU parliamentarian, as well as that we as members of parliament have an overhead on our work. We will have a cost supplement to cover this, and we will also have to have it as a European Parliamentarian. I also believe that most people who have little knowledge of it know that the amount received is relatively sufficient to cover the costs incurred for some people at least. That is quite a lot of money, and there is therefore an ongoing debate on whether to account for the use of that money. I cannot say that it is unreasonable for the transparency to be explained in relation to the fact that the money is actually spent according to its purpose. It is quite real that you need to cover that overhead, but I think there should also be transparency. After all, this is a debate in the European Parliament, and I fully agree with those who say that this is actually where this problem should be resolved, and that discussion is also ongoing down there. I have nothing against this proposal and I believe that we support it because it may be such an addition to it. But I also agree with those who say that this is not something that will really solve this problem. On the one hand, it is such a more general problem for the European Parliament, which does not just concern Danish parliamentarians, and on the other hand, it provides such a list of taxation of it, and it can be briefed in many different ways if we are to use that expression. So I am in favour of us really being told to the European Parliament that they must pull themselves together down there and get proper rules for their pencil money, and that there will be transparency for Danish MEPs' own use of the pencil money, and that, to the extent necessary, we will also be discussing taxation, as the Enhedslisten proposes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153811	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, has just made a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153815	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased that I could help to extend the rapporteur's vocabulary with the expression 'overheads', but that is not why I have asked to speak. It is more to understand SF's position on the taxation of an amount such as pencil money, which could in principle also be a reimbursement by bill. If SF really thinks so, I would have almost said that e.g. Do you want to tax driving fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208153847	No, that's not the point of this proposal either. I don't want that for a ride. To the extent that you can document expenditure that is within the rules, if you may say so, it should not be taxed. That is what goes beyond what is within the rules, which must be taxed. Now I do not know the precise rules for pencil money in the European Parliament, but I would assume that transport in a constituency, which in this case is the whole of Denmark, will be covered by the use of the money. I'm quite sure it is, yes, I know it actually is. If you are going to a meeting, accommodation is covered by the money, so they are not taxed. That is what goes beyond what is the regular use of the money in question, which can be characterised as income. But I do agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I doubt that there will be a lot of money left over when we come to the end of the year. But I think it is very good that we have this as some kind of pressure on certain politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154000	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154008	Thank you for that, President. I am here today as a stand-in for our EU rapporteur, Merete Scheelsbeck, who unfortunately did not have the opportunity to be present, but it should of course not prevent anyone from asking questions. I have to say, however, that there has been a general debate on the pencil money, and I will not go into it, but I will deal a little more specifically with the resolution under discussion here today. There are two key elements to this motion for a resolution. The first is that the pencil money must be subject to a national income tax, if they are not used for these relevant purposes, as regards the exchange of views that took place just before, because I understand that this should be contrary to the rules of the European Court of Justice and that a European solution should be worked out. I think that's what I'm saying about that element. The second element is that of a voluntary national register, and I have been informed that it has already been adopted at European level and that a platform is being created on Parliament's website. That is what I have been informed of. I think it would be very sensible to do so, in order to ensure transparency, which has also been talked about here today, and which is, of course, absolutely crucial to citizens' confidence in the way EU funds are managed. It is a huge shame, as the Foreign Minister rightly said, if the very good work done in the European Parliament is being neglected, that there is a suspicion in relation to this, and there too I think that the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is right. Rasmus Nordqvist, had a good point in saying that we should also be careful not to suspect every penny used in this scheme. The Conservative People's Party therefore rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154144	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who pressed in a little late. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154153	Yes, but it was because Mrs Mette Abildgaard's concluding remarks gave me the opportunity, like trying to get an answer to: is it Mrs Mette Abildgaard's view that the European Parliament is characterised by money-richness or that it is not? Because I think you get a tiny bit confused about that when you hear Mrs Abildgaard's speech. Well, personally, I think that 400,000 kroner. sounds like a lot. Personally, I also have to say that receiving diets of 2,200 DKK. tax-free, every time you show up for a meeting, i.e. per. It is also a great deal of money if we estimate that there are 20 to 22 working days per month, what I understand is what is actually in the European Parliament. Isn't that a lot of money, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154249	I do not think I have indicated that the European Parliamentarians are not being paid satisfactorily for the work they are doing or are not being given proper conditions for the work they are doing. I have the impression that this is very much happening. There is a lot of money in the EU system, and unfortunately there are also examples of some who have acquired more money than was intended in the EU system, and we must fight this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154310	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208154329	Thank you. I have no objection to disagreeing with this proposal. I think it might just be a good idea to have read the proposal before it is heavily criticised. This proposal isn't about taxing pencil money. I don't know where sir. Henrik Dahl has gotten that idea from. It is quite clear from the proposal that pencil money should not be taxed. That is the money that is in surplus when people have used the overhead to use Mr. Henrik Dahl's words to be taxed and the overhead is, moreover, a completely wrong word, because there's nothing overhead about it here. Because it is very well-defined expenditure that has to be paid for. It is not particularly the case with overhead that you have for a little free use, but it is some very well-defined expenses that the pencil money has to go to. What is just interesting is that no accounting is required and that there is no requirement for those you use to be paid back. It's a lump sum. They say, "Here you go, $400,000." tax-free a year, use them as you please, without any control. That is the starting point, and one may think it is reasonable, and one may think it is unreasonable. Well, I think it is unreasonable, and I think it is particularly so when you compare it with the other issues that the European Parliamentarians have and which cover most of the things that have been mentioned. Of course, EU parliamentarians from Denmark have the journey back and forth, including if you go from Brussels to Jutland. It's not exactly the journey to your home. It could be anywhere. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If we have a meeting in Madrid, the European Parliament will pay for going to Madrid and holding a meeting. Furthermore, all Members of the European Parliament have the free train card on which they can travel on official duty, as do members of parliament, and in Brussels they have the opportunity to pay taxis back and forth. In addition, you get diets, i.e. several thousand kroner a day. There should surely be the lump sum to give a cup of coffee, which is, of course, the purpose of the cost supplement we get. There should be plenty of room for it within diets. Then you get money to hire people. I think it's 115,000-120,000 kroner. a month, you get to hire people, which I also think is quite reasonable. By the way, there is some special money that you can spend if you want to travel. If I would like to look at things in Venezuela, for example. and get an impression of it, then there's a special sum of money a year that I can use to take a trip there and check things out and come back and return the plane ticket and get it covered. So there's plenty of places you can get money. Then there are these pencil money that goes to these well-defined tasks, for example. an office team in the country of origin, for pencils or for certain promotional purposes. There are some very, very well-defined things that they can be used for, and it is quite right that active parliamentarians who take their work seriously and there is a part of them spending that money. They can spend that money, maybe not just during the summer break, but they can spend that money. But it is equally true that the fact that there is no control opens up the possibility that people who do not take their jobs seriously can put $400,000. It is simply a question of whether you think it is reasonable and whether you think it is a very bureaucratic arrangement that, if you buy a number of pens or if you rent an office, you store a receipt on the lease and you add the annex to the deposit you make for that office into a folder. Is it very bureaucratic? No, it is very simple, and I can say to the Secretary of State that this is what Rina Ronja Kari is doing. She has a briefcase that she always brings to the meetings... the Minister of Foreign Affairs can just contact, and then he gets it to see where all the attachments for everything she spends money on, without exception, are put in. It is presented to the press several times, and it is completely accessible, and it is not a major administrative problem. Because that just means that when you buy one of the services that are subject to the pencil money, you get a receipt and put into the folder. How hard can it be? It's only hard if you don't want to. And then you have to ask: Why is it that you don't want to? That's where I'm gonna have to say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, that I hope that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist will be able to see for himself how the pencil money is used in some cases. This is not something that is going to affect any hard-working politicians. After all, this is not something that will limit anyone to doing something about political work, not one, because they can simply provide annexes for it. This will only affect those who choose to use their pencil money for private purposes. Then it has been said that, I understood, there was a register in the European Parliament and, of course, I deeply regret that the text cannot be revised retroactively. Because this has been presented a month ago or something, and it was then before a proposal was considered in the European Parliament, and it is true that some things have been adopted which do not involve the creation of a register in which everyone is present. So, it is a place where people who want it can go and present their things, but there is no obligation in relation to those who pay the money, to do so, and it is possible that that part can replace our proposal in Denmark, and then it is only fine. It is a very good thing that the pressure that has been put through there. However, the second part, namely that those who do not spend their money, because they cannot gather evidence that they are being used in relation to what they are to be used for, should pay tax on them, I think is quite reasonable. The discussion about whether it is prevented by the European Court of Justice will be called into question, and this will basically only be settled by a court decision, and we think it should be taken. It is a question of how to interpret the points contained in the judicial decision that there must be no excessive amount of compensation, so that it is a hidden remuneration. I would say that if we have people who year after year receive 400,000 kroner. tax-free, so frankly believe that everyone, including the European Court of Justice, will consider it a hidden consideration. But it's a case you can test. After all, it is a question of a political will to which path one wishes to go. We want to go the way we can get it tested. There are others who do not want it tested and who give up in advance. It's okay. It's okay. Finally, when I was a Member of the European Parliament, I had excellent cooperation with Ingeborg Grässle, who was from southern Germany, and she was German conservative. She was not even from the CDU, but from the CSU and very conservative, so it wanted something, and our cooperation was in the Committee on Budgetary Control, where we worked hard together to uncover fraud and fraud and abuse of money. We did it from each point of view. I did so in order to illustrate that the European Union was a great machine in which it was not possible to have effective control and there was no willingness to do so either. She did so on the basis of a desire to show that by getting these control mechanisms through and avoiding this fraud and fraud, we could make the European Union appetising for people and make them understand that this was the way forward. From different points of view, we worked for exactly the same thing. We call on Parliament to work with the various starting points we may have to work with the maximum possible budgetary control of EU funds. Then there are those who believe that this control will lead to even more support for the European Union. That is fine with me, I have no problem with that, and the rest of us can then pursue the objective we have. I find it regrettable that there is no wider support for this, especially because we know that when we come to the election campaign in just a few months' time, as in the previous election campaign and the previous election campaign again, when this issue is raised, it will be said that, of course, there must be control of the pencil money, that, of course, you should not be able to use pencil money for private purposes, and that, of course, you should not be able to buy an office at home in your private apartment where, when you go into a particular room, it is something that has been paid for the pencil money. Of course you should not be able to do so, it will be said. The problem is that nothing will really be done and that it is still the case that the majority of Danish MEPs do not present the annexes for the money they spend to the 400 000 tax-free dollars they receive per year. We think that is a problem, and everyone else should find that a problem too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155322	There are a few comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155327	I'm just gonna ask sir. Søren Søndergaard, about Mr. Søren Søndergaard can confirm something. Now we've talked a lot about this $400,000 today, and it's also very relevant, but I also think it's very relevant to talk about diets. - Sir... Søren Søndergaard confirms that, if you want, it will be possible to withdraw in the order of 70,000-75,000 tax-free crowns on a monthly basis, as a European Parliamentarian? Here I am thinking of the $2,900 that you receive as part of this pencil money, and I have calculated that if you have these 20 working days and you sign them, so you can receive diets, it is in the order of $44,000, which is also tax-free, and that gives a total of $76,000. Is it realistic that if you want to and lie down, you can draw DKK 70,000 75,000. tax-free as a European Parliamentarian per Member State; month?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155435	Yeah, that's right. I feel the need to say here that I believe that most of the Members of Parliament who are here are doing a great deal of work and are genuinely passionate about the matter. But it's just that when you have a system that is so lenient and includes so much money, there are also stingy vessels that take advantage of it. We ourselves had a case in Denmark, where a person went and signed in to get a daily allowance, that is, a diet, in the morning and then went to the airport and went home to Denmark and then got a few thousand kroner paid for that day, which must be said to be a little strange. The EU system reacted to that, so the EU system said that this should never happen again. Back then, the desks, where they were signed, were in the arrival hall, where everyone could come, including photographers and journalists who took pictures. Then how did you stop it from happening again? The people in question were moved into rooms which are closed and where only Members of Parliament have access. That's the way you've done it. There I say that when there is that laxity, when it comes to how to use EU funds, you tempt weak souls, and I just don't think you should.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155556	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155601	There is one reason why disabled people who are searched for extra help under section 100 of the Service Act cannot get a conto-amount, and that is Enhedslisten. If Enhedslisten had not vetoed it, these poor people, who are already having a hard time, would get an a-conto sum, and then they could get the tools for which they are searched. Perhaps there would be some aid fraudsters who then did not buy quite as many aids as they were searched for. So now there is order in the cases, now we have to hand in documents for everything we buy, and there has to be someone sitting there checking all these annexes, and the transaction costs of doing so are huge. That just makes me wonder if it doesn't matter to the Enhedslisten who is going to suffer from the fact that you have to have very much bureaucratic trouble and what amounts we are talking about? Or is it just a matter of principle that everything has to be annexed and that something like that called a conto-amount we just can't use for anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155705	Well, we're talking about 400,000 kroner. a year. We can then begin to give the unemployed a conto-amount of DKr 400 000. in order to be available for the labour market and not to control them per year. I don't know if it's sir. Henrik Dahl's view that we should. No disabled person gets 400,000 kroner. as an amount they can spend without any kind of documentation. That's completely ridiculous. There aren't any people in this community who get $400,000, except maybe in some particular circles, without having to give any documentation for them. What are these examples, sir? Henrik Dahl has, on others who get 400,000 kroner. without having to provide evidence of the use of the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155756	Thank you. There are no more comments, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190208155809	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 19 February at 1 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
