ParlaMint-DK_20191120130056	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag): Bill no. L 68 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Bill No. L 69 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 70 (Proposal for a Law amending the law on remuneration, pensions, etc.) for ministers. Bill No. L 72 (Proposal for a Law amending the Maritime Taxation Act, the Tonnage Tax Act and various other laws. and extension of the seaman's allowance to seafarers on research and marine survey ships), Bill No. L 73 (Proposal for a law amending the law amending the law on equations and various other laws. Bill No. L 74 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on taxation of electricity and various other laws). Biofuels and regulatory changes to the electricity cartridge scheme), Bill No. L 75 (Proposal for a Law amending the Packaging Tax Act, the Tobacco Tax Act, the law on various excise duties, the Law on the temporary reduction of penalties for infringements of tax legislation on foreign accounts, etc.) and the law on collection). Bill No. L 76 (Proposal for a Law amending the Boat Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. Trine Torp (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 39 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the incorporation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 40 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the change of names if serious crime has been committed). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191120130230	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 21 November 2019. It is the case with urgent questions that two hours have been set aside, and we have to comply with this for many different reasons. Now there are two ministers on the urgent question here and there are parties that are represented, and that means that I think we should be very careful to keep to the speaking time. Otherwise, the last parties will be in trouble and we are in fact in danger of not reaching them, and I think that would be really, really a pity. So I earnestly ask that we keep to the speaking time that is available, and I indicate very clearly by vacating or standing up when you are about to finish your speaking time. We need a explanatory statement, and the rapporteur for the questions is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120130317	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to Parliament's parties for agreeing that this urgent question can be carried out today. Thank you to the ministers for running for it. When we in the Danish People's Party have thought that it was important that we quickly have a question debate about the situation, it is because things are happening quite quickly in the world. We have people from Denmark who have taken part in a completely insane war in Syria in favour of a caliphate, an Islamic terrorist regime, and who now want to come back to Denmark, and it is clear that they represent a security risk that we all know and they pose a lot of problems for Danish society. We also noted that last week the Prime Minister was out with a clear mark, namely that these people should not return to Denmark, that they are undesirable in Danish society. But what matters is, when they are undesirable in Danish society, what you do in practice by the government to ensure that they do not actually come to Denmark either. We remember that last week, when this report came in, there was a foreign warrior who returned to Denmark and who landed at Copenhagen Airport on Monday. We from the Danish People's Party would like to help ensure by putting full focus on this and ensuring a pace that we avoid, as far as it is possible at all, the return of more people to Denmark. What we want to discuss today is: what tools does the government intend to use to ensure this, and how can we, as a Parliament, help to promote exactly that? So thank you again for having the debate here today. I look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120130504	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. For reply, it is first the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120130507	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. The debate on the foreign warriors is important, and I am sure that there is not a single one here in the Chamber or outside the Chamber for that matter, who did not see that the foreign warriors who have left Denmark took the consequence of their elections, which was to turn their backs on Denmark and travel to the battlefields in Syria or Iraq to fight for a totalitarian ideology that is in direct conflict with our free society, with values such as democracy as a form of government, with prosperity between countries achieved through trade, a world that stands for law and right and not the right of the strongest or the most brutal, that countries are able to cope with their mutual relations with agreements, and that we safeguard human rights and the consequences they should take, must be to stay away from Denmark, as they put behind them. Unfortunately, it is just that we cannot keep all foreign warriors with Danish citizenship out of Denmark forever. Last week we saw the first foreign warrior with Danish citizenship come back to Denmark and, as I have said several times, the last foreign warrior has hardly come to Denmark yet. It is also a fact that the previous government made very clear. Denmark has no general obligation to actively work to bring back to Denmark Danish citizens who have resided with a militant Islamic group in Syria or Iraq. However, it follows from our international obligations that a Danish citizen cannot be denied his or her nationality if he or she is thereby made stateless, and it is also part of the core of having a nationality of a country that he or she cannot be expelled from that country and that he or she cannot be deprived of the right to enter the country. This also means that the Danish authorities, for example, should: an application for a passport is received from a Danish national who is abroad cannot refuse to issue a passport to the person concerned if he is thereby deprived of the right to exercise his right of entry to Denmark. In this way, the Danish authorities may find themselves in a situation in which they are legally obliged either to issue a passport to the person concerned or to work to ensure that the person concerned is extradited in order to be prosecuted in Denmark, and in those situations it would certainly be preferable, for security and law enforcement reasons, for the person concerned to come to Denmark in a controlled way, a controlled way which best supports the further criminal prosecution that he should have in this country. But that framework does not change the fact that the foreign warriors are undesirable in Denmark, and that the government prefers to see them disappear, and the government is determined to take any initiative to help the foreign warriors disappear. Foreign warriors must be severely punished, preferably where they have committed their crimes. That is why the government has intensified its efforts to strengthen, together with other European countries, the possibilities of prosecuting foreign warriors locally in the region where they are. In addition, the government, with a broad majority in the Folketing, has recently been dealt with urgently and passed a bill which allows administratively to take the citizenship of foreign fighters who have more than one citizenship. It goes without saying that we must look at the levels of penalties, whether they are right for those who betray Danish society and join in the fight against our democracy, our values of freedom and equality. Because the level of penalties shows how much we, as a society, distance ourselves from the crimes committed, and we, on the part of the government, would like to send out a clear signal that we are strongly opposed, for example. to go out as a foreign warrior and join terrorist organisations. Because when we look at the seriousness and damage caused by the crimes committed by foreign warriors and other terrorists, the need to punish is more severe. Foreign fighters are undesirable in Denmark and the government is willing to take the necessary initiatives. I hope and believe, of course, that Parliament's parties will support this. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131018	There is now the possibility of a brief remark from each rapporteur, but no one seems to want a brief comment. Yes, there is. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131027	Then it was about being safe in the rules here. Thank you, President. Within the rules that exist today, it is not possible to reject them in situations where people want to return to Denmark. After all, it raises the question to the Minister for Justice whether there are some things in the legislation as it is now that the government would like to get support to change, so that it would be better able to keep some of these people outside the country's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131101	Well, there is. There is both a question of consular assistance to issue passports, but a new legislative proposal will soon be put forward. The system currently in place, which was adopted, whereby people who are afraid of leaving for conflict zones may refuse to issue passports or take passports from people who are afraid of leaving for conflict zones, has been running in such a way that for one year they have been able to take the passport from people or refuse to issue the passport. There we propose that that period be extended so that it is not one year, but three years, so that for a longer period we can ensure that no exits are made to such conflict zones. The current system has been evaluated and experience is good. But all this will be reflected in the bill which will be presented to the Folketing shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131155	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131157	Thank you. I just want to say that it is absolutely true that no one has any sympathy whatsoever for any foreign fighters at all. I would nevertheless like to ask what the Minister is saying about foreign fighters staying away and so on. etc. There have been some stories in the press where, as seen from time to time, the police have issued some extradition orders. In this case, with el-Haj and also around Basil Hassan. Doesn't the Minister think it's kind of funny that the police issue a request that you want them and that the government then says the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131236	Well, there's no doubt that what we'd like to see was that people got lost. But we can find ourselves in a situation where one can imagine that, for example, there is a problem. is a foreign warrior in Syria, especially if the consular conditions are improved there or somewhere else that addresses the representatives of the Danish authorities there and says: I would like a passport. Then we find ourselves in a situation where we are obliged either to issue a passport to the person concerned or to say: We do not want to issue a passport because we want you to go home for legal proceedings in Denmark. And there you have to ask yourself the question: are we best served by giving such a passport so that they can travel as a Danish citizen in other European countries and perhaps also come to Denmark, or are we not better served by getting them to Denmark in order to be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131335	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131336	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the statement. My question is about this with an international court and the cooperation that the Minister tells us that we are now going to start with other European countries. Aren't you worried about the government that this work is gonna take so long so that these foreign fighters can go around practicing their atrocities and terrorism all the time we're waiting for this international court to take 4, 5, 6, 7 years? Is not the Minister and the Government concerned that this solution, which sounds pretty good at first sight, will really take too long?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131414	It is true that some of the concerns about that particular solution are the time perspective. The good thing about the solution is that it was one in which I think we would all see ourselves and in which I think we would at least be ideal, namely that we can run the trials where the evidence is and where those who have to be prosecuted are, of course, within the framework that meets the requirements that we put in place for the conduct of legal proceedings, in which they also subsequently ensure that they are served on the punishments that they may receive in those areas. There has to be cooperation. There are a number of European countries that are working together on this, and there must of course also be a country that welcomes it. And I know that there are many who say that it is not possible to do so, that there are practical problems with it and so on. I just have to remind you of the fact that it does not stand to compare one to one that, after all, the pirates managed to get off the coast of Somalia prosecuted in the Seychelles and transported to Somalia where, as I remember, there, among other things. was made a prison I think that among other things. Norway helped finance it, or that they financed it, where legal proceedings could subsequently take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131513	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131515	Thank you. I would like to ask about the possibilities of prosecuting foreign fighters in Denmark. Is it not the Minister for Justice's opinion that it would be extremely difficult to obtain evidence to prosecute what individual individuals have done in Syria? We probably can't find or summon witnesses, and we don't really have any other evidence either. The reason I ask is that there are many people in this debate who highlight it as an alternative to keeping them out of Denmark that we should be able to take them to Denmark and then give them long prison sentences. Does the Minister for Justice not agree with the assessment that the only thing we can actually prove is that they will have been down in the area and that it is not enough to keep them locked up permanently?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131602	I agree that some of what is complicated is, of course, that we, as the rule of law we are, must lift the burden of proof that these crimes have actually been committed for which we are aiming. However, there is, it might be said, not a possibility of relapse, but a possibility of punishing those who have entered a conflict zone, and the burden of proof is, after all, very low, because there is just a question of proving that they have entered. It's not that high. But it is true that there is a problem and that some of what could certainly be an advantage of local prosecution would be that the possibility of obtaining evidence would be better. But if you think that the moment we have a foreign warrior in our care on Danish soil, you can look forward to a very, very long sentence, I can say that it is desirable, but that it depends, of course, on whether the burden of proof can be lifted and it can be difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131702	No one else has asked for short comments, and so we thank the Minister for Justice for the time being. And then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120131719	I would also like to start by thanking you first of all for the questions. As a government, we are concerned that people who do not want us to do well cannot do us any harm either, and the government will therefore go a long way to prevent foreign fighters who have fought against our fundamental democratic values from entering the country again. Last month, therefore, we were dealt with urgently and passed a legislative proposal which allowed administratively to deprive a person with dual nationality of Danish citizenship if the person has acted in a manner which seriously harms the vital interests of the country, and that is without requiring that the person concerned be convicted in a court of law in Denmark. The exclusion may therefore take place while the person concerned is still abroad. I am pleased that a broad majority in this Parliament, including the author's party, supported the draft law on the administrative withdrawal of citizenship and that the rules have now been put into effect. The amendment of the law has given the Danish authorities an important tool in the fight against foreign fighters, and it is a tool which will of course be used in those cases where we consider it relevant. I can inform you that there are four cases pending in my ministry concerning the administrative withdrawal of nationality, but none of them have been finalized, because it is essential that the cases are sufficiently informed and that they are given the opportunity to comment on the information available to the Ministry and to be given the opportunity to provide relevant information themselves before a final decision is taken. In addition, the Government has submitted a draft law, which is scheduled to be submitted on 12 December this year, for consultation. The draft law amends, among other things: the rules governing the acquisition of Danish citizenship by children. The government's position is that the parents who bring their children to the Islamic State, or who have had children down there, have given their children the worst possible start to life because they are born in conflict areas, and because they grow up in conditions where it can be expected that there can be no cohesion with Denmark and with the democratic values on which our society is based. The bill will therefore provide that children born in areas where entry to or residence is illegal will not automatically receive Danish citizenship at birth unless the child becomes stateless. Hopefully, this will also prevent some from entering these areas with entry and residence bans in the future, and that is actually what is most important. It is proposed that the amendment of the law will only apply in the future, that is to say, for the children born in the areas after the entry into force of the law, but not in those cases where it will result in the newborn children becoming stateless. The government, as we have already shown, is willing to go far in relation to foreign fighters, but when it comes to children, we will not risk them ending up in a conflict zone like stateless persons. With those words, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132008	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132011	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The rules have been put into effect • says the Minister • in relation to the urgent legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament here on 24 October 2019. The rules have been put into effect; we were told that last week when we raised the matter during Question Time. What does it mean that the rules have been applied? I am told that no one has yet been deprived of citizenship as a result of the new legislation, but if I am wrong, if it has been dealt with now with some of these people, it would be a good piece of information to be given. So will the Minister clarify what is meant by the fact that the rules have now been applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132053	Thank you for the question. It is true that no citizenship has been withdrawn administratively yet. The first four cases have been opened and three of them are now in the hearing of the parties. We have a rule that party consultation should last 14 days, i.e. two weeks, and once that time has passed, the authorities will assess whether there are grounds for administratively withdrawing citizenship. And it is true that we also had the discussion last week in this Chamber; now we have come a little closer to the end of the party consultation period, but it has not been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132128	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132130	Thank you. It has probably not passed the Minister's attention that the Radical Left is particularly concerned about children's rights, and that is why it was at least rather uplifting to hear some of the modifications proposed in relation to the withdrawal of citizenship. We're not there yet, so the toast isn't complete. But I would like to ask whether the Minister does not agree that when you have rights as a child, it comes primarily from the individual individualness that you are getting your rights from conventions and rules and not from the fact that you belong to something or are siblings or have parents? Does the Minister agree that it is primarily because you are a single individual that you have rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132212	First of all, I should like to comment on the first point: we have not yet tabled the legislative proposal. We expect to put it forward in 2-3 weeks' time. I think it was 12 December that I was told and when it is put forward you will also be able to see in detail what we are proposing. What I am just saying today is that we are not going to put forward a legislative proposal that risks making children stateless. Like our bill on adults, that is, the foreign warriors, it was not meant to make people stateless. And then I agree with the questioner that the rights of a human being in an ordinary liberal society are, of course, linked to the fact that we are individuals and not to the fact that we are members of a clan or a family or a minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132254	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132255	I do not know whether everyone in this Chamber knows that, but today is actually the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and this is really a fantastic thing that we should celebrate a great deal. And it is no secret that we in the SF are also concerned with the children. So I just want to ask the Minister if he can guarantee that the bill that the Minister is going to put forward does not break with any other conventions. I know that it is not really fashionable to be preoccupied with conventions anymore, but we are actually in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132331-2	First of all, I think that we can congratulate each other on the fact that the children's convention is 30 years old. I didn't know there was a birthday today, but congratulations to all of us on that. And then, of course, the question is whether we can guarantee not to put forward legislative proposals that violate the conventions. Yes, we can guarantee that. It is a basis for the policy pursued by the government that we adhere to the conventions that we have signed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132358	In this round, it's only one question, and that's why it's now Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132403	Thank you. I think it is a good thing that the Minister is at least now dealing with the children, because the Minister himself brought it up. I would like to ask the Minister who can reply on behalf of the government: what is happening now to the children from whom the government fortunately does not intend to withdraw citizenship, but who are Danish children who are in Syria right now? What happens to them? When are they coming home? Somehow they are allowed to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132441	It is true that the bill we are planning to put forward in December is about children born in these areas of conflict in the future, not those who are already living in the areas today. And the government's policy in this area, which, moreover, follows on from the policies of several other European countries, means that matters will be dealt with individually, and that this will be done on the basis of an intention to ensure the safety of the people and of Denmark, but also to take humanitarian account. That's why we're here. has seen a child who had been badly injured have already arrived in Denmark. But we do not have a general line that all children are going to Denmark, or that no children are going to Denmark, so it will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132529	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132531	Now that we can see that there are some people who have a Danish citizenship that we have granted them here by the Danish Parliament and who have ended up taking down and fighting against Denmark and against everything we stand for in Denmark, does it give the government reason to reconsider whether we give citizenship to too many people? Could the government possibly take part in the Conservative proposal that we hold a conversation with people who must have Danish citizenship, to be sure that they not only meet some purely formal demands on how many years they have been in Denmark and similar measurable requirements, but that we also have an idea of what kind of people we give co-ownership to Denmark by giving them citizenship? It's a disaster and a huge mistake that some of these people have ended up with a Danish passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132626	I am of the basic opinion that Danish society today pays a price for the fact that in the past there has been a wrong immigration and integration policy. We do that in many areas. I also believe that it is crying out to heaven that people who have been granted Danish citizenship go out and fight against the values and society in which they have been granted citizenship and therefore also protection. When I myself became a member of the Danish Parliament in 2015 and a member of the committee dealing with these matters, namely the Committee on Bodily Rights, I was also, I must admit, a little shocked at how many people were granted exemptions from the general rules we had, among other things. on the basis of some of the diagnoses made. I would also like to say that since then we have tightened up and I myself feel that, with regard to the bill we are dealing with in the Folketing in these weeks, on the granting of citizenship, I am pleased with the people who are on the bill. I am also pleased that it appears that there is broad support for them to have citizenship. What is constantly the challenge is that most of them are good citizens and have done their duty here in our society, but that some have got through the eye of the needle in the past, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132727	Thank you, Minister. And now we move on to the negotiations and also to the general rules for short remarks. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. As a service information for both Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the other rapporteurs, I would like to say that speaking time is four minutes, but it cannot be counted down from four minutes here from our display, and that is why we will first see that there is one minute and then there are three minutes. I'm just saying that to avoid confusion. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120132755	Thank you for that, President. Thank you again to the Ministers for taking part in this urgent question. We in the Danish People's Party are pleased that we will have the opportunity to have the debate here today. We are talking about some people who have travelled out of our country to a reign of terror in Syria, who have fought for an Islamic caliphate and who have actually fought for many of the things that are totally opposed to what we in Danish society and the West, incidentally, stand for. One of the closest things you can possibly bring a treason against your country, we stand here. I'm thinking, what if we had succeeded? Imagine if those people had been successful if the Islamic State had established itself and had become a new country in the world, which could then spread its horror to the rest of us. Then these people who had left Denmark and had joined the Islamic State and their reign of terror would probably never have asked to return to Denmark; then they would have lived their lives there and spread the horror that this is expressing. Now it didn't work out. It did not succeed because of hard work from a lot of countries that opposed it. And now many of these people who had left Denmark want to return to the safe environment in our country. They want the Danish state and the Danish taxpayers to finance their legal costs. They would like the Danish state to provide medical assistance if it is needed, i.e. if they have suffered damage from the horrors of war. They want their children now to grow up in the safe environment in Denmark, with free education and with everything else we make available, because they may now have come on board in quotation marks • better thoughts. Or they're not. Or they actually contain what they went down to Syria to fight for, and then they bring it back to Danish society with the uncertainty that it naturally gives to our fellow countrymen. We shouldn't put up with that. That is why we from the Danish People's Party ask the Danish Parliament and the government to do everything in our power to prevent these people from getting back to Danish society. We have to do this within the framework of the legislation. It goes without saying, but we also have to do this by, as Parliament, being prepared to change the legal framework in order to provide the tools necessary for these people not to return to Denmark. Sometimes you may have a feeling that the government, with the Prime Minister in the lead, is bringing some very tough, square and clear messages to the Danish population, while when it comes to the work in here, it takes a little longer, and maybe we do not really reach the goal. While sending out a facebook update that these people have nothing to do in Denmark, the first foreign warrior lands at Copenhagen Airport. We would like to help the Danish People's Party to ensure that there is consistency between what is said to the Danish people and what is actually going to happen in the practical world. That is why we also want to challenge the framework for what we can do, in other words, that, in addition to doing everything we can, within the current framework, we also find out where to extend the framework. When, for example, The Prime Minister, after the Question Time here on 12 November, says that she is also prepared to change conventions with the wrong content, then perhaps it was actually a very good place to start. We tabled an amendment to the urgent legislation on the issue of taking citizenship from people with dual citizenship, so that citizenship could also be taken from people who only had Danish citizenship if they had violated the Danish values as decisively as they have. This proposal was voted down in the Danish Parliament, and it was appropriate to take it up again, just as one could look at whether, for example, it was possible to do so. In fact, children of foreign fighters also have the opportunity to have dual citizenship. And why not take Danish citizenship from also those who have been down in the area and were born in the area under these conditions and thus have to take responsibility for the choice their parents have made? In other words, as a country, we simply need to find out how we behave so that we can secure ourselves in a better way, and that sometimes requires that we are willing to use some funds, which may sometimes be cross-border for some, in relation to what we have done in the past. Now there are signs that the time is running out, so I must (on behalf of DF, KF and NB) make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to take every conceivable step within the framework of the Constitution that can prevent foreign fighters who have fought for the terrorist organisation Islamic State from coming to Denmark, and at the same time urges the government not to help foreign fighters in any way while they are abroad. • V 14).
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133231	Thank you. This is now part of the further debate. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133237	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the fact that, on the one hand, you hear a lot of politicians saying that when foreigners commit crime, they must be expelled from Denmark immediately and back to their home country, but that it is then when there are Danes going abroad and correspondingly committing crime, very terrible crime, even terror and other things that all of a sudden are quite awful that they have to be sent back to their home country, that is to say Denmark. Can the rapporteur explain a little what the context and logic are in that it is hypocritical when you think that criminals should be sent back to their country of origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133315	It says a little bit about the naivety of Danish society sometimes, when we want to use the logic to say that no matter what people have made of horrors abroad, we have to fight on the part of Danish society to take them back to Denmark. I also think it is easy to discuss whether someone who commits drug crime in Asia should not also take his or her punishment in the Asian country, instead of fighting for him or her to return to Denmark. So here we are talking about the fact that some have fought for the creation of a new nation that is really going to fight what we as a country stand for. And as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is surely one of the closest to treason towards one's country that one can come. And then we should then make a lot of efforts to get the person back to Denmark with all the consequences it has. That is where I think we are getting out to a degree of naivety, which I do not think we should. That is where we must ensure our country first and foremost.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133413	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133422	I haven't felt myself. You don't want no. Two questions? ) Well, okay, you can do that now? Yes, we have now returned to the normal procedure). I wasn't ready for the procedure. But one has to say that it just seems unclear and unclear that one time you think it is really, really important that foreigners are sent back to their country of origin when they commit crime, but when it is suddenly Danes who commit crime abroad, it is too bad that they return to Denmark. In other words, there is a lack of logic when only one applies and there are, as it were, double standards in this respect. I do not think that the rapporteur quite clearly answered why there is this lack of coherence in logic. So maybe I could ask for an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133502	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133503	I fully agree that in many situations we say that we naturally have an obligation to Danish citizens who are around the world. I just think that things can become so grotesque that we also need to be prepared to look at what it takes to secure our country. I just think that we are dealing here with some people who should be held to account in some way in the local area of the world, where these misdeeds have also happened. In fact, I also think that it may well be with the previous exchange of words with the Minister of Justice about this being able to prove in this country and have these people convicted • that someone has the impression that if we bring these people back to Denmark and bring them to justice, they will get some very severe punishments. But no one has any certainty about that, because can you prove it? Can you find the witnesses who need to get these people convicted in Denmark? There is great uncertainty about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133548	Thank you. Then it's Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133550	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to raise this debate. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party has the same understanding of children as in the Children's Convention, that is to say that they are individuals and have their very own rights, and how this is related to the fact that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal that children born in conflict areas or whose parents have participated in terrorist activities should be punished for the actions of their parents. I heard the rapporteur say that they must take responsibility for the choice made by their parents. How does this relate to the fact that children are individuals in themselves and have their own rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133640	I believe that parents also take responsibility for what is happening to their children, and that cannot be separated from it. I think that in many situations too, these children are indeed double citizens, so if they have a Syrian father and a Danish mother, why is it so partial that it is Danish citizenship that makes them go to Denmark if they were born in Syria, for example? So there are plenty of things to explore. I think that the legislative proposal that has been reported has the weakness of its being that it only applies to the future. So this does not actually apply to the people we are talking about here. And I think there are many people in the Danish population who think it does, but it doesn't. So this is really something that will only apply if there are future areas of conflict, and then you will be able to apply the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133725	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133726	Thank you for your answer, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And following on from the rapporteur's reply, I would like to ask the rapporteur: if a situation is grotesque enough, is the Danish People's Party ready to graduate the legal principles of our community?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133750	No, not the legal principles that we believe we are building up here in the Danish society based on the Danish Parliament's legislation. It is clear that it is the law in Denmark. However, if reference is made to the fact that we do not have to deal with any convention provisions that we disagree with, then that is something else. And there I am delighted that, at least in what is being said by the Prime Minister, she is also saying that she would like to change conventions with the wrong content. I am also looking forward to hearing from the government in this debate what it is about conventions with the wrong content that need to be amended. But, of course, it is to give Denmark wider opportunities to act towards these people that they want to change the content of the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133828	Then it's Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133830	Thank you. I am just trying to sort out the nationalist web that can arise if the national parties in all the countries believe that when crimes are committed by foreigners in their countries, they must be expelled, but when people of their own nationality do so abroad, they must stay there. Well, we were all happy that the bookseller from Brønshøj came away from Denmark, but now we are told by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that if the crimes committed by Danes are bad enough, then they must serve abroad. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl tries to explain the inner logic that we want other countries' nationals to serve abroad, but at the same time we do not want our own people to do at least according to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl must come to Denmark and serve if they have done something bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120133919	Now it happens quite often that foreigners who are here in Denmark and commit crime are serving in Denmark, and then it is about whether we can deport them after they have served their sentences. But it is true that it could be enjoyable if more of them were to serve in a more domestic setting, because they will probably also feel it as a harsher punishment than sitting in a Danish prison. Then I have to say that I really think that it is a little narrow to naivety when, because you have this principle, you quite argue that it is said that some people who have fought for the Islamic State in Syria must return to Denmark as soon as possible and be brought before a Danish court, knowing that we were also informed by the Minister of Justice that it is highly uncertain how to run such a trial. Will it be possible to obtain the evidence and the witnesses needed to actually convict them? And if we stand here in a few years' time and they've come back to Denmark and haven't gotten these long prison sentences that some say they'll get in Danish society, what then? Should they then just pose the security risk to Danish society as they do?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134021	Well then, we have to hope that they do not get out of tent camps in the Middle East and suddenly come to Europe and yet commit terror because they were so laissez faire-like that it was thought that it was better that they just ran around in a desert and could find their own way up here than that we were sort of in control of where they were. Let's hope so. Because that's the responsibility, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and others take care of themselves. That's because you don't necessarily do anything. But my question was: is it possible to welcome the expulsion of the bookseller from Brønshøj when Danish citizens are not to be prosecuted in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134054	The answer is, yes, you can do so. For what is this about for us in the Danish People's Party? It is about protecting Denmark from the dangers that lurk around the world. That is what we are fighting for first and foremost. So if we can deport some punks who want to hurt the Danish society, and we can prevent other punks in the world who want to go to Denmark to perhaps hurt Denmark, from coming here, yes, we will actually be happy. Yeah, we'll celebrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134120	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134135	Thank you. This debate on foreign fighters is not new, either in a historical perspective or in the time in which we live. It is of course topical because we have seen an influx to IS of people from all over the world, including Denmark, who have left their home countries to support a so-called caliphate. And, of course, it is particularly topical in the light of the situation in which Turkey has begun to send a number of foreign fighters out of Turkey and against those countries where some of them are also nationals. We in the Social Democratic Party do not think it surprising that they are no longer welcome in Denmark, and that is an argument which for us is not only about conventions, but also about fundamental values on which we would like to build this society. I'm not gonna be smart about what's done, about these people going towards the Islamic State or what they dreamed of. But it is no secret to anyone what was going on, and common to all of them is that, regardless of their background or their reasons for leaving, they have known what they were going to. Some of them have, of course, taken the trip against the wishes of their families, even though it was illegal to enter these conflict zones. In other words, they have betrayed their families; they have betrayed their country, and several of them have even demonstratively chosen to burn their Danish passports. There will certainly also be some of those who have actively participated in the fighting, but common to all of them is that they have supported one of the worst terrorist regimes we have seen in history. Now the so-called caliphate is so defeated, and even though the terrorist regime IS still exists, it makes it really difficult for these people to maintain the dream that they set out to fight. And that means, of course, that some of these people have returned to Denmark by year, and that there is still a remnant left, which for most people has either ended up in prison or camps, where they are now waiting and hoping that we in Denmark will let them return. But why should we? Some would say that it is best that they come to Denmark so that we can punish them here. It must be on the basis of the idea that it is in this way possible to prove what they have participated in. This may be possible for some, but it is far from certain that the Danish authorities, even though we are conducting an in-depth investigation, can prove what they have been a part of. And it cannot be denied that, for some, there will be such serious reasons that the authorities must consider that it is in this way best for them to come to Denmark. There has also been such an idea in the debate: are they now at all dangerous, these people? Isn't it just for some people, almost innocent victims? So, according to PET, these people who have been in conflict zones with a militant Islamic group are dangerous in the sense that they can be radicalised, violent and anything else. And our government and our Parliament have made an active effort to prevent these people from returning. Most recently, we have dealt with the draft law as a matter of urgency, which makes it possible to remove Danish citizenship when people have a different citizenship. In 2015, we tightened the penalties for entering these conflict zones, and it's perfectly obvious that we're going to look at how we can punish these people as hard and as cash as possible. And even if we do all these things, the unfortunate situation is that some of these people are going to come back. Most recently we saw that when the Turks put a person on a plane and the plane lands with him in Kastrup, the authorities obviously have to deal with the situation on the basis of that assumption. And that is why it is unfortunately not certain that we have seen the last foreign warrior return to Denmark. I have a proposal for adoption which I would also like to read out (on behalf of S, V and LA): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament believes that foreign fighters participating in a treacherous fight against Danish values should take the consequence of their elections and stay away. Parliament calls on the government to work to ensure that those who unfortunately return will be severely and consistently punished. • V 15).
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134532	Thank you. And that will be part of the further debate. So I would just like to say to the rapporteurs that if you want to think about saving some brief remarks for the others, you have to take that into account. I am sorry that we are so tight, but those are the conditions. There are brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134608	Thank you, President. I have a question for the Socialist rapporteur, whom I would very much like to spend some time asking. The bill we have been told will come on 12 December, about the situation of children, we have been told will only apply in the future in relation to new areas of conflict and will therefore not apply in relation to the current situation. This will mean that there are children who have Danish citizenship and such as: is in Syria, which will then be able to return to Denmark and perhaps get help etc. because they are Danish citizens and Danish children. What, then, prevents them from applying for family reunification? Can the rapporteur guarantee that they will not subsequently be able to seek family reunification and thus get some of the people back to Danish society, which we are currently making great efforts to avoid returning to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134703	No. I think it would be dangerous to issue a guarantee. What I can say is, of course, and I think it's familiar to the whole Parliament that you look at these cases individually and across the authorities. And there has also been a debate about whether we should not actively go out and send the police into these camps and bring these children home as soon as possible. That's not what's going on. What is in progress is that, of course, we are monitoring what is in people, both adults and children, and that there is an individual assessment of the situation in which they find themselves. And as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has explained, there will be a bill, and the details of that I think I will leave to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134750	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134752	If we're talking about situations where a number of these kids have, for example. a Danish mother and a Syrian father, they must in some way be both Danish citizens and Syrian citizens. And if these children have dual citizenship, does not the Social Democrats think that we should be able to bring about legislation that will ensure that Danish citizenship is not suddenly becoming the most important thing? Otherwise, these children will have to return to Denmark with the risk that they will later also be able to have a family reunion. So, should we not say that these children are also Syrian citizens, so we have the opportunity to avoid them coming to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134833	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134835	It may be that the chairman of the Danish People's Party is stronger in the concept of citizenship than the children born in Syria, so it becomes a bit speculative. What I would like to say is that we share the concern about the conditions that we have to deal with. Then it may be that we look a little differently at the fact that we are actually playing within the framework of the conventions and the details of the bill that is coming, I think I will leave it entirely safe to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134902	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120134904	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask: there is something called due diligence. In the Folketing, we adopted legislation on 24 October on an urgent basis. So now we are well past November, and no citizenship has been taken away from Syrians. I would like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus: Can't we do better? Can it be that the government is sitting on its hands? That simply cannot be done. Is there a problem here? Yes, there is a problem because the Danes out there hear the Prime Minister saying: we do not want syrianskrigere to Denmark. Over here, we see what happens to actions, and there are no actions happening from the point of view of the people at least. Well, then, sir. Jeppe Bruus doesn't explain what happens with the government when you don't take due care?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135006	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135007	I think this is a fine opportunity to discuss what is being done as a government. If we look back at what the former bourgeois government did in the four years it held power with the Danish People's Party, was it so that no one returned to Denmark? Was that an expression of the bourgeois government sitting on its hands and doing nothing? No, it was an expression that we are not living in a black and white world. I hope no one is in any doubt that the government is now going to let the government speak on its own behalf and the Social Democrats are willing to go very, very far to prevent these people coming back. But, on the other hand, we are also bound by the fact that we live in a society governed by the rule of law, and we respect and recognise that as such. This means that, although we have actually gone a long way here and have ensured that one citizenship can be removed administratively where there is another, there is still some scope for the process that is under way. And I really think that the Minister has explained very well the work being done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135102	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135104	I don't really think I got the answer to my question. Here we have a prime minister who says: We do not want Syrians to go to Denmark. Over here we have a government which has not yet taken away the citizenship of any of the Syrians who could be deprived of citizenship under the legislation we adopted on an urgent basis in the Folketing on 24 October. Well, you have four cases going on that may at some point lead to the withdrawal of citizenship. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus didn't see that we have a problem? We have a problem with the Danish people, because they simply talk to two tongues, one who speaks and one who does nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135141	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135142	Well, I see it's not a black and white world, and it would be easier just to act like it was. What is the matter with the person who landed at Copenhagen airport is also that the administration was under way under the bourgeois government. That's why it's not just black and white and easy and straightforward. It just doesn't change the fact that we're ready to go far and also to act. I do share that in so far as I think the government does, although I am not speaking on behalf of the government, the impatience that exists in terms of how we limit the development that is going on. We're working hard on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135215	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135216	It appears to be something of a disaster that some of these people have a Danish citizenship. It is people who have migrated to Denmark from the Middle East, who have gained ownership, the right to vote in Denmark, by the fact that the Folketing has given them Danish citizenship, and now we are hanging on them, even though they have been down fighting for one of the worst terrorist organisations with which the world has ever seen an organisation with which Denmark is in direct war, which works against everything we stand for in Denmark. It is therefore very difficult not to recognise that it must have been a mistake that they have acquired Danish citizenship. The question then is: will the Socialists help to ensure that there are fewer people receiving Danish citizenship of similar types in the future? Will the Socialists help tighten up the rules for granting citizenship so that this type of person does not get it? We have a proposal that we want to have a conversation with these people, so we are sure that it is not just because you have been a certain number of years in Denmark, but that we also assess what kind of people it is. Do the Socialists support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135325	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135326	It is difficult to disagree that if someone has acquired Danish citizenship and subsequently goes to war against Denmark and Danish values, it seems a bit crazy to have granted him citizenship in the first place. It's just that sometimes it can be a little difficult to predict what kind of life course people choose to take. There are also some converts who are Danes who have grown up with Danish values, perhaps even Christians who convert and after a short time travel to Islamic State. It was perhaps a little difficult to predict years before what was going to happen. And that makes it difficult in relation to the concrete proposals for the process of citizenship. I actually think I will leave that to the reply which the Minister also gave.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135413	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135416	It is not difficult to foresee that if you have people who are Islamists, opponents of democracy, it may not be a very good idea to give them Danish citizenship. And that is why I ask again whether the Socialists will support the proposal that we should have some sort of arrangement in which we have an assessment of what kind of people we give Danish citizenship, rather than simply cutting it out to all sorts of people who end up joining movements that are in direct contradiction with everything we stand for in Denmark? I would like an answer as to whether the Socialists will support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135456	In other words, with all due respect, it is a little difficult to deal with a proposal that is presented like this in oral form. And if what the Conservative rapporteur is referring to is that for the past four years people have been shoving themselves with citizenship under a bourgeois government, I have a little difficulty recognising that image. I therefore agree with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said, namely that the process has been tightened up here. Of course we can look at it and talk about it. And it is quite obvious that if someone is known to be an Islamist and is busy fighting Denmark and Danish values, it is of course not very smart to give them citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135528	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135530	Thank you. I would like to ask what the rapporteur said about the fact that foreign fighters knew what they were doing. I agree with that, because they have committed atrocities. I would like to ask what the logic is of punishing children in connection with what one must understand is coming in a few weeks' time? Does the rapporteur think that children are equally well aware of what they have gone into and are therefore guilty and must have withdrawn their citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135601	No, the children are not guilty, but they are in the unfortunate situation of being with some parents who have made some choices, and unless you think that you should go in and with compulsion and without parental consent remove these children, they are just in the situation that they are in the custody of their parents, just like all other children around the world, and we don't want these parents to come back to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135628	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135629	I understand that there are few comments in this round. It is interesting to say that the children are not guilty, because normally we only punish for the sake of guilt, especially when it is something as intrusive as when it comes to citizenship. Can the rapporteur not agree that the fact that we are taking the lead in depriving children of some of the fundamental rights that are at issue here, on such a small basis, is a little special? They have not known what they were going to do, and they have not done anything to incur the guilt for which they are being punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135706	I admit one hundred per cent that this is a dilemma, but in the context of neglecting that it is a flimsy basis, I would say that we are talking here about parents who have joined one of the worst terrorist regimes in history and who have taken an active stance and that recognises the Radical Left as well, I can understand and consciously choose to turn their backs on Denmark, and so we do not want these people to come back. Then some children are caught up, and this is, of course, an unfortunate situation, but it shows that you are in the custody of your parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135738	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135738-2	Thank you. I shall continue where Mr. Kristian Hegaard escaped, because I think that Mr. Jeppe Bruus says something very interesting, namely, that the children are not guilty. I fully agree with that. These kids are innocent. But if the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Jeppe Bruus agrees these children are innocent, so I just find it so hard to understand why they should be punished. - Sir... Jeppe Bruus explain to me why, as a government in this situation, you choose to punish innocent children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135809	Now we are a little ahead of a legislative proposal that has not yet been tabled. So I think we will have that debate in December. What we are talking about here is that I say that these children are in a really unhappy situation because they are the children of some parents who have made an active choice and that they are in the custody of their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135833	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135834	I agree that these children are in a very unhappy situation, but it is an unfortunate situation that we can do something about, because firstly we do not deprive them of citizenship and secondly we go to Syria and bring the Danish children who are currently in IS camps in Syria. The unfortunate situation is that the government and Mr. Jeppe Bruus helps take the children out of. And it's completely incomprehensible to me that you don't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135904	Yes, but the children also follow the parents, and we do not want the parents to come to Denmark. Those children are in an unhappy situation; similarly, children from all sorts of other countries with the same kind of parents are in an unhappy situation, especially the young children who were born into it innocently. It just doesn't change the fact that they're in their parents' custody. We must then do what we can to help the children who are in the camps where they are, but we really do not want to get these people back to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135941	Mette Teisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120135947	Mette Thiesen, I'm sorry, I'm going to correct the President again. Thank you so much. Now we could read this tough proposal for adoption by the Social Democrats and the Left and the Liberal Alliance. I am sure that the IS warriors are shaking their pants when they see it very ironically said; there is no such thing. I would just like to ask the rapporteur why it is that the Social Democratic Party insists on putting international conventions above the Danes' security and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140020	I also do not know how many IS warriors would shake their pants at the proposal for adoption that New Citizens have helped to put forward. I actually think, if we're gonna be completely honest, not really, that any of them are seeing them. That is why this is an expression of what kind of debate we have here today, but also what kind of fundamental vision we are working in. I would like to acknowledge that there can be a difference in the way that we work within the conventions of which we, as a small country, have a great interest in being a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140051	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140052	So I have to understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur's party continues to place international conventions above the Danes' safety and security and does not recognise that we were actually some parties • The Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party who just voted to deprive all IS warriors of their Danish citizenship, regardless of the fact that they were then stateless, because we are precisely defending Denmark and the Danes. But I understand that the Social Democracy still places conventions above the Danes' safety and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140125	I don't know if it's such an attempt to do what you call a strawman. We are working within the framework of the conventions, like, as I actually understand it, with both the Left and the Conservatives, who have helped to make a proposal for adoption together with the New Citizens. Does this mean that it gives us some challenges when we have to deal with these situations? Of course it does. So the government has answered many times that it does. This simply does not change the fact that if you believe in a legal society and recognise that the conventions also give Denmark some benefits, then you work within them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140200	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I apologize to Mette Thiesen, I think that's the second time I made that mistake. The next rapporteur is Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140215	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question. It is an important issue that we are debating today, because it is about Denmark and the security of the Danes, and there can be no doubt that we in the Left will do everything we can to secure the Danes and Danish society against foreign fighters. Right now there are several Danish foreign fighters abroad, people who have turned their backs on Denmark, to fight against everything we stand for, together with the Islamic State or as representatives of the Islamic State, people who we very much want not to return to Denmark, and to the extent that they do and we cannot keep them out of the country, they must be punished as hard as they can at all. This can be done in many different ways. There is an international trail in conflict. In the past, people have been convicted of crimes against humanity. This was done with the war criminal tribunals in Tokyo and Germany after the Second World War, with the horrors in the Balkans at the time, and this has been done in the case of Rwanda and Sierra Leone. We would very much like to see this track followed again. However, we may also have to do something at our latitudes, to the extent that the other is slow, as we rely on the current government to learn from the approach we used to have to foreign fighters. When Søren Pind took over responsibility from the then Minister of Justice and current Prime Minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, not so much had been done, or as legal professor Jørn Vestergaard has expressed it, the approach of the then Social Democratic Justice Ministers was foot-timing, and there was enough to tackle. According to PET, between 115 and 125 people had left to become foreign fighters in June 2015, and PET estimated that about half of them had returned. But no one was stopped from leaving, and no one was prosecuted when they returned. At the time, we began to change that. A number of changes were made to the legislation, including: That means that we have an entry ban today, and prosecutions were launched that caused people who had returned to be sentenced because, of course, we could not just watch, and the government must not do so now. That is why we are also pleased that it appears that the approach we took at the time and our cooperation will continue. So far, the government has put forward legislation stemming from political agreements concluded during our reign, but we allow ourselves to expect more from the Socialist Government. Because the situation is constantly evolving, and it is crucial for the security of the Danes that the government is at the forefront, and therefore I look forward to hearing the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration explain what the government will do to look after Denmark, and we look forward to being invited to talks about solving this problem. With these words, I would like to say that we agree with the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur has just read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140515	Thank you. The first, with a brief comment, is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140519	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that the rapporteur believes that the Left will do everything possible. But why can one then hear the Left repeatedly say that international conventions, drawn up in a completely different time and with a completely different purpose, are being put on the safety and security of the Danes? It seems very hypocritical.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140549	In the Left we see the international conventions as part of the international system that holds hands under a small state like Denmark. Small states live in a world where the strongest are right, and the more international rules and conventions you have, the better off you are as a small state. Sometimes these conventions are put together in such a way that we would like to challenge some of the decisions that come in connection with them. We have always said that we want to help, but that does not mean that we want to dismantle the system that makes a small country like Denmark a safer country than we would be without an international legal order.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140629	I know that the Left has been saying this all along, because the Left speaks and speaks, but never puts action behind it. You can hear a Mrs Inger Løjberg, a Mads Birded, you can hear a Morten Dahlin, you can hear several of them here from the Left, who are so-called tighter, and who repeatedly advocate that we should now be tough, but then absolutely nothing happens. I just have to get the rapporteur to confirm once again that the Left puts international conventions, drawn up in a completely different time and with a completely different purpose, on the security and security of the Danes, because that is what I can hear the rapporteur stand and say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140703	Then I think Mrs Mette Thiesen hears something other than what I say. We use these conventions for, among other things. We cannot logically say that we should use the conventions to send people home and have others respect the conventions so that they can receive people who are expelled from Denmark and, at the same time, say that those conventions do not apply to us. The legal order in the world does not work that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140735	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140736	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded for the speech. I think some things were said right, but I would also like to say to Mr Seligman. Mads Birded, that what has happened quite recently is that Erdogan has entered northern Syria. And that means a totally different situation, because for some time the Americans have been asking the Western countries to take care of these Syrians. For some reason we have not succeeded, and there may be very good reasons why we did not want to do so. But all of a sudden, this big shift is happening, because the Turks are setting free the Syrians, the foreign warriors, it seems. And just yesterday it was said that now almost the majority of them were released. What really gives rise to my question is that when Mr. Mads Fuglede says that the current government has carried on some of the things the previous government has done, so it is right. But do we not have a completely new situation right now that makes it necessary to take due care? For it is not very good, when we adopt urgent legislation in the Folketing, that no citizenship has yet been removed from Syrian squires?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140847	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140848	I fully agree with Mr. Peter Skaarup in. We are in a situation where things have developed in such a way that what we did at the time, among other things. in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, may prove not to be enough, although we did very right. And that is why I expect us to be convened for discussions to resolve this, as it has become a major problem for us. And it is quite true that we are seeing a regime in Turkey which has been more or less recklessly given some sort of hand and neck over some part of the policy in that area, of course, means that we need to be informed in a new world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140927	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120140928	Thank you for that finding. The next question, I think, must also follow on from Mrs Mette Thiesen's question: are the conventions we signed right after the Second World War, in the 1950s, among other things. The 1951 Refugee Convention, up-to-date? I know, sir. Mads Birds say it protects the small countries. But if we are in a situation where what protects the small countries no longer protects the small countries because time has run out of the conventions, would it not be an idea to look at them with fresh eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141002-2	Yes, I think we should look at all the conventions, and in fact I think that we will often be in a situation where the conventions have been set a precedent which is different from what was the spirit of the Convention at the time. And then you can either take up whether you have to revise them jointly, internationally, because we have an interest in the existence of these conventions, or you can actively seek to renegotiate how they should be interpreted. And that is what is being done through the international judicial system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141036	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141101	I will start by stating the agreement, because there are a great many of them in this debate too. The Radical Left also disapproves of the people who leave Denmark to fight the cause of Islamists, in order to commit atrocities in another country, atrocities that attack and challenge the democratic values that we live by. We all hate that, each and every one! But we must also believe that our legal system can punish them, otherwise we basically do not have confidence in that system. Because nobody thinks it's great to have Danish Syrian warriors who have terrorized and maybe killed and are complicit in sending thousands of people to flee home. But if the fact that some people are coming home means that we have better control of them because we put them in prison, rather than that there is a risk that we do not know where they are in Syria or anywhere else, it can be more secure and safer that they are here at home, so we have them under control. And if the fact that some come home makes us have them under control rather than they have to be freed in a prison and then be able to wander around as they please, we have to do it. On the other hand, double standards have also filled a large part of this debate. Many politicians are concerned about sending foreigners who commit crime in Denmark home to their home countries, but when it is a Dane or more who go abroad and commit not only crime but very serious crime, then it is so wrong that the countries think that the Danish citizens should be sent home. It doesn't add up. Then there is the question of the children, who are very much concerned about the Radical Left. These are Danish children of Danish citizens, and it has gone completely out of hand when some propose to sacrifice children's fundamental rights, sacrifice children's legal certainty in a rule of law, which must be understood by the proposal that is on its way in a few weeks' time. So while their parents, the adults have turned their backs on our values in Denmark, the children have turned around innocently in their mother's belly, and Denmark should not turn their backs on these children. We should not punish children for the actions of their parents. Children can inherit their parents, but not their guilt. We cannot be familiar with allowing innocent children to be victims in the politics of responsible adults, because if politicians do not fight for children, who does? Therefore, on behalf of RV, EL, ALT and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament strongly rejects the actions of foreign warriors. People who commit terrible acts, including terrorism and treason, must be punished according to the principles of the legal system. Danish children of these people have not turned their backs on Denmark and are without blame. They must go home for the sake of the child's best interests and to stop any radicalisation. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141436	This is then part of the further debate. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141442	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard on behalf of the rapporteur. Sir. Kristian Hegaard and others in here have put such a very emotional commitment into it with the children, and you think a little that it is trying to have the children in front of you in a fight, because you think that it speaks particularly to the feelings of the Danes. I'm just gonna have to ask sir. Kristian Hegaard, if he can then give a guarantee for the Socialist rapporteur, could not see that if these children, whom the Radicals are fighting too much for going to Denmark, come to Denmark, then family reunification with some of the adults we are trying to avoid coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141520	What I can at least guarantee is that if we take these Danish children home, we will stop the radicalisation that can take place for those children where they are now. So taking them home will only be for more security, for more security, rather than for them to develop into potential foreign fighters. It simply cannot be in Denmark's security interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141546	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141546-2	You might think so, but it just doesn't answer my question. My question was that if those children come to Denmark, what prevents them from later getting family reunification granted to some of the adults that we want to avoid coming to Denmark. So it is not a question of whether these children can be radicalised to a greater or lesser extent in one situation or another, but what about their parents? That's what this is about. Can we avoid these parents coming to Denmark under the rules of family reunification? And will the Radicals guarantee to the Folketing that they do not want these parents to come to Denmark just under the cover of family reunification rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141620-2	We have to look at that when that situation arises. What is quite tragic is that for many of these children, they have no family at all. So they are in a camp where they are completely alone and where they will be in danger of life if they are not taken home to Denmark. So that is precisely why the Radical Left is concerned with children. It is the safety of children that is at stake here and that they do not develop into potential new foreign fighters. It should be in Denmark's security interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141651	Per Larsen, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141651-2	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask the question: does the Radical Left believe that it would be appropriate to separate parents and children, born or unborn children, or how are these children to be dealt with in the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141711-2	Thank you for the question. There is nothing to say quite clearly about this, because unfortunately there is the very, very unfortunate situation in which there are many different cases. There are some of these children who have no family at all and who are just themselves, and thus they are growing up in a camp where they have no one but themselves and are therefore at great, high risk and in danger of being radicalised. It can certainly not be in Denmark's interest that we then leave it to completely random people how they train them. We can take them home and make sure that they have a really good childhood and are not further radicalised.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141753	Sir. Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141755	I hear the rapporteur argue that you can actually bring home some children and separate them from their parents or how can that be understood? Because if the parents, who are certainly Syrian warriors, that is terrorists, are to be brought in, then I certainly think we have a very serious situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141819	That, sir. Per Larsen heard the radical rapporteur say that there are different situations. Sometimes they have parents, and sometimes they don't. Therefore, it is hard to say that this is exactly how it will be in every case. But what is crucial is that children have rights, and if we just let these children grow up in those camps, there is a danger that they will be radicalised, and the Radical Left does not think that we should continue along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141848	I silently point out that we have seven rapporteurs left, we have two ministers and about 45 minutes. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141856	I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Hegaard, whom I thank for his speech, whether the Radical Left has considered the consequences of the policy put forward here if it is implemented. The consequence will be that all Syrian warriors, whether you have dual citizenship or just Danish citizenship, will come back with their children with the risk that PET warns precisely against, that is, the risk that Syrian warriors who return to Western countries after a stay in Syria will commit terror in that country. That's exactly why we have this discussion, because you're terrified that these people are coming back and doing something bad to the Danish people. Is it better to get them back to Denmark instead of leaving them down there, where, if they commit terrorism, it is after all against people other than the Danish population?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120141959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142000	What is difficult in this situation is that these very, very terrible people, who are foreign fighters, are not just somewhere in a given camp or whatever it might be, but they are probably also moving around. In some cases, it must be much easier to control them if we get them prosecuted in Denmark, in relation to the monitoring we can do there. So you can't say anything completely clear about either one or the other. However, in those cases where we are best monitoring them at home in Denmark, it would make very good sense to take them back and prosecute them in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and thus have them under control from there too. It can only be in Danish security interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142048	I have to say that it is not always easy to manage this, but it is also something about giving everyone the opportunity to participate. That's why I have to say to Mr. Jeppe Bruus, that we cannot take any more questions now, because then we simply won't get through it, and I would think that would be really bad. I'm sorry. That's why we're grateful to Mr. Kristian Hegaard and proceed to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142132	There should be no doubt that neither the SF nor myself have any sympathy whatsoever for those people who not only turn their backs on their homeland but also directly fight the soldiers of their homeland and may be guilty of treason. To the extent that you have done so, of course you have to be punished. As you know, the government has taken a number of initiatives which respond to the situation in Syria right now, i.e. the question of Syrians who are perhaps on their way to Denmark. As the House may know, the SF supported the intention to take citizenship away from those who have dual citizenship to ensure that they do not return, but also that the proposal for us fell because we wanted to uphold the principles of the rule of law on judicial review. We have also clearly said that when it comes to children, we do not help to abandon them. I don't want them to pay for the parents'crazy choices. With this debate, the Danish People's Party raises a question of whether we should take extraordinary steps to ensure that those people never reach Denmark's borders. Should we make them stateless in spite of conventions? Should we ban the entry of Danish citizens, even if we are going to break international conventions? That answer is obvious to the SF. That's a no. Of course we shouldn't. Then it may be that there are some who think we are a little soft in it, but we support the conventions because it is the right thing to do. It creates a better world, and it is also in the understanding paper that Denmark must respect international conventions at all times. To a world without international agreements binding the West to freedom and to the rule of law, the alternative would be for every country to take care of itself, to cottage its own, to create protectionism with the dismantling of trade agreements and wars, and who will prevail in such a world? Who has the best cards on hand if there are no international conventions to give small countries a place at the adult table? Who will benefit if it is rifle races and not human rights and international agreements that are the basis of the world order? Probably not Denmark, which is a small-scale society in this respect. So we should support the international community, because small countries with well-developed diplomatic muscles get more out of it than stronger countries that can easily thrive there, how strong they do what they want and where the weak suffer, what they have to do. If all countries start to file on the conventions, we create a race to the bottom where everyone will do the same, i.e. the corresponding. That is why the SF is wary of using the tools of the rule of law to punish the people we are debating here today to the extent possible. But we will not accept that our own principles are harmed in trying to solve this problem. Because these are the principles that we are fighting for. They are the ones that Danish soldiers are fighting to preserve. And so we will not only abandon the international community, but also ourselves if we give it up. Then, on behalf of the SF, I shall make the following proposals for adoption, which I shall read out: Proposals for adoption Denmark has a fundamental obligation to comply with international conventions, but we must not actively bring home foreign fighters. As a nation that takes human rights and children's convention seriously, we have a responsibility for the children held in prison camps and should make an active effort to return to Denmark. • V 17).
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142515	This will be part of the further debate. We have one simple question from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142522	It's just a simple question. Thank you to SF's rapporteur for the speech and the particularly strong focus on children. My question is: what is it that makes the SF unable to support the proposal for adoption that Mr. Kristian Hegaard read a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142538	I believe that this text includes the fact that we must actively bring Syrians home in order to pursue it with the principles of the rule of law. We don't think so in the SF. We will not actively help bring people home, but it is clear that if they show up here, we must prosecute them. I agree with you on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142605	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142606	It was precisely Mrs Karina Lorentzen's good defence of the principles of the rule of law in her rapporteur's speech that led me to speak. It is, of course, because I am a little surprised that, fortunately, when you are very concerned about the principles of the rule of law, you are in some way not right here. These people also have rights, even though they are somewhere else in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142627	In my view, this does not conflict with the principles of the rule of law and international conventions. I can easily see a lot of dilemmas in that: is it good that they stay in Syria where they can radicalise others? No, they're not. Is it good that they come home where they can radicalize here at home? No, it's not. I recognise that our intelligence services probably have limited capacity to keep an eye on people and the more of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142658	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120142711	After all, this is a very serious debate that we have in this Chamber today. I deeply share the concern of IS warriors, foreign fighters, Syrian warriors, or whatever to call them who come to Denmark. I also share the concern that they are somewhere else in the world where they can also commit their terrible acts of terrorism. It is for me to see both a question of foreign fighters who have gone out of the country to fight for something that we do not believe in so much. It seems to me to be a question of the situation in the Kurdish territories, i.e. those who have been Denmark's allies for democracy, for equal rights in the fight against the Islamic State. I also think it is a question of the children. I think it is important that we here from the Folketing send a signal that we will always fight anti-democratic and anti-female forces. In the course of today's debate, but also the debate on this in general, we have heard many sentences about whether we should welcome these people. I just want to point out that I do not think we welcome anyone when we arrest them the second they land at the airport. I think it makes sense to do the same. That is what has happened to the foreign warrior who has returned to Denmark. I'm glad he's under arrest at the airport. Danish citizens cannot be rejected at the border, and this is a man who is suspected of very serious crimes. These are crimes that need to be investigated so that they can be prosecuted. That is why the Danish authorities have long since imprisoned this man in absentia and asked for him to go to Denmark. That is why we must also say that it is quite a change of course that the government is out in here. With the Islamic State it is politicians who judge. With the Islamic State, you'll be convicted if you mean something other than yourself. It is not done in Denmark and fortunately for it. In Denmark we punish actions and not attitudes. The same applies to everyone else who has committed crime in Denmark on the basis of ideological or other religious beliefs. We always punish on the basis of actions. When it came to the Blekingegade gang, we did so with the Nazis, and we have done so with all other ideologically based crime. I think we should keep doing that. I do not think that we should meet anti-Democrats by being anti-Democrats ourselves. In Denmark these people can be prosecuted, in Denmark PET can keep an eye on them, and in Denmark they can come to court. It seems to me that it is precisely because of the security of the country that it is precisely because of the security that we have to get them to Denmark. It is clear that this calls for priority to be given to the anti-radicalisation programmes of criminal justice. There should be no doubt about that. For me, and for Enhedslisten to see it is a hugely uncertain situation for Denmark too to have these people walking around in an IS camp where they can plan their terrorism. I think one should ask oneself whether one has the most confidence in the Danish courts, in the Danish prisons, or whether one has the most confidence that the Islamic State, the IS warriors, should punish these people, or whether it is Erdogan's regime in Turkey, where one can bribe oneself out of punishment, and where, most recently under Erdogan's regime, a Danish Islamist was in custody, who was released. So I think one should ask oneself who is most trusted in Danish courts or Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143113	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143117	Thank you, and thank you, Mrs Lund, for the rapporteur's speech. It comes as no surprise, of course, that Enhedslisten wants to open up the door to Denmark to people from outside... nor if it is former warriors in the Islamic State. It would come as a surprise if Enhedslisten in any field at all wanted to close the door a little in. But my question is about the situation of children, which Enhedslisten has also been very concerned about as a special point, and one has a feeling that they like the Radicals are pushing the children in front of them in this discussion and saying: Let it be a discussion about the children; they should be allowed to come to Denmark. I just want to ask Mrs Rosa Lund what is the position if children come to Denmark in that account, because what about their parents? According to Enhedslisten, should they also have the opportunity to come to Denmark, so the family is kept together? Or does Enhedslisten believe that if their parents are foreign fighters and are actually guilty, there can be a differentiation here or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143217	I'd say to me this isn't about outsiders. There's, like, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl well knows, talk about Danish citizens. Nor is it about opening any door when you arrest this suspect, the second he lands at the airport. That's the first thing. The second is that I believe that, in the interests of national security, parents should be taken home if they are Danish citizens, because we therefore have much better opportunities to prosecute them here, and we have much better opportunities to keep an eye on the fact that they are not planning new terrorist attacks. So I don't think it's just about pushing the kids in front of you. This is both about children's rights, but also about the security of the realm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143259	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143300	It is now very much based on the fact that, if so, Danish citizens, and Mrs Rosa Lund thinks that we have a special obligation in Denmark. What if they are people with dual citizenship, where you have both Danish citizenship and, for example, you have Danish citizenship? Syrian citizenship? What if the children have dual citizenship? Why, then, is it necessarily Danish that matters? Why can't it be the Syrian so they can stay in Syria? It can also be said that it could be easier to find evidence and witnesses, etc. in relation to punishment. and then actually get prosecuted some of these people. But the crucial point in my question is: if there is dual citizenship, why can it not be Syrian citizenship that is the most important, rather than that it necessarily has to be the Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143339	I think it should be the Danish one, because, as I said before, we have much better opportunities to prosecute these people and thus potentially punish them. We also have much better opportunities to ensure that children have a good childhood. Now I do not know what kind of potential situation we are talking about here and where the other citizenship is, but I would say that right now we are faced with the situation in Syria, that the Kurds are thus Denmark's allies at their knees; it is a weak society. In fact, I think we owe it to those who are fighting for exactly the same democratic rights as we are doing to help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143411	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143414	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the picture that we have far better chance of punishing these people in Denmark than where they are. On what does that claim really rest?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143432	That claim is based on different things, but it is based first on the fact that we have a very strong judicial system in Denmark, we have a strong constitutional state, so it's like no. 1. No. 2 is that the Kurds are in a situation right now, where their society is completely kneeling. They're actually asking their allies to bring their own citizens home. No. 3 is that the last time we saw a Danish Islamist being in Erdogan's hands, that is, the regime in Turkey, the man was actually released instead of being prosecuted. I don't think we can trust that with these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143506	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143507	I recognise that we have a better and stronger judiciary in Denmark, but that is not only what determines the possibility of prosecuting. There is also the question of a deed, some evidence, some witnesses, some circumstances, some intelligence, etc. etc. It is not the case that if you flew them to Argentina, you would have a greater chance of judging them there. So I'm just wondering a little bit about that very firm conviction that as long as they come to Denmark, we can make a trial.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143541	Thank you! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143542	Well, thankfully, we in Denmark have very good experiences of investigating these kinds of cases. That is precisely why we have an international prosecutor who also investigated and prosecuted criminals in the former Yugoslavia. And then I would just add to that that I and we in the Enhedslist are certainly not opposed to setting up an international court, but we are simply concerned that it will take too long. It's just too long when these people can just walk around and make their terrorism. But I fully share the desire for an international court. I do not reject the idea at all; we do not reject it in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143616	Thank you. And then it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. And unfortunately I have to say that time is running out of time, so there will be only one question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143628	I have to say, I'm just like Mr. Knox. Jeppe Bruus puzzles me a little about the very great belief that it should be easier and better and more optimal to deal with the foreign fighters in Denmark and in the Danish legal system, knowing that everything that has happened, everything they have been involved in, has happened in Syria. So why not ensure that the prosecution is carried out in the neighbourhood, as has been seen in the past in Rwanda, in the former Yugoslavia, so that it happened in The Hague close to where things are going? The next question is as follows: can Mrs Rosa Lund see that, at the same time, there is the problem that if those concerned come to Denmark, they represent a very, very high security risk with very, very high costs for the Danish society, possible male coverage 24 hours a day from the police, and we know what it costs a legal system that will pay the price in the form of waiting times for others who are going through the judicial system? There are plenty of challenges here. Can't Mrs Rosa Lund see that if we accept these people, it will put enormous pressure on the Danish people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143737	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143739	Problem, sir. Peter Skaarup, of course, is that these people are a security risk, no matter where in the world they are. That's the problem. I just have quite a lot of confidence in the Danish system, I have to say. I must also say that we are in a situation where it would be nice if it were the case that our ally the Kurds had the resources and a strong enough society to be able to prosecute these people. That would be great, but unfortunately that is not the situation. So, of course, I can interpret Mr. Peter Skaarup's question as the support of the Danish People's Party for the Kurdish people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143819	Thank you. There's no more questioners. Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. The next one is sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120143830	Thank you. It is the position of the Conservative People's Party that Syrian terrorists should be kept out of Denmark. They're the worst people you can imagine. We owe them nothing and we must act according to what is in Denmark's interests. In our view, it is a very theoretical idea that we should be able to take these terrorists to Denmark and punish them. We have virtually no way of conducting a trial in Denmark, where we will be able to prove exactly what they have done in Syria. We will not be able to find or summon witnesses, and so they will be free. We will be able to give them a small prison sentence for having violated the ban on going down there, and then they will be able to run around in Denmark and put society at a disadvantage and pose a serious security risk. It is best to do everything we can to keep them out of Denmark. That is why we have supported depriving them of their citizenship. This makes it easier to prevent them from staying in Denmark. It's not a perfect defense. They can still sneak in, but it's easier to prevent them from being here and throwing them out again if they come here. We stay within the bounds of the Constitution. It's the Justice Department's assessment, and we have to trust that, because it's their job to make such assessments. We may go to the edge of the law, and there is nothing wrong with that either. The Constitution has given us a room for manoeuvre. That's what we need. That is our duty and the people expect it from us. It's not our job to be a Boy Scout to terrorists from the Islamic State. Those days must be over when we did not dare to defend ourselves against such people and allowed our system to be abused because we were afraid that some said that we were at odds with either a convention or the constitution. We must respect the law, the constitution and the international agreements that we have signed, but there is nothing wrong with going to the edge, that is. to use the room for manoeuvre that we have in law when defending ourselves against terrorists; people who want to abolish democracy and kill us because we do not follow their version of Islam. In this context, we are disappointed that the Left and the Social Democrats will adopt a text which does not place any emphasis on keeping terrorists out of Denmark completely. Therefore, we have instead joined with the Danish People's Party on a text which reads: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to take every conceivable step within the framework of the Constitution that can prevent foreign fighters who have fought for the terrorist organisation Islamic State from coming to Denmark, and at the same time urges the government not to help foreign fighters in any way while they are abroad. • V 14). We hope, of course, that Parliament will support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a couple of questioners. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. And, unfortunately, I will have to cut it down to one brief comment. I think we should have a look at whether, when there are two ministers to answer, we can extend it a little. I would like to say that we should perhaps do so so that no one feels annoyed that there is now only one brief comment. We'll take a look at it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144138	Then you also have to look at the distribution, because I have been sorted out once; now it is the second time I have been allowed to say something. This is a little important, because I think it is actually very, very landmark, also in a historical perspective, that one of the proposals for adoption that we are now dealing with here has been made by the Conservatives together with the New Civil and Danish People's Party, which has argued that it is not important with the conventions. And the Conservative rapporteur is here repeating that it is within the framework of the Constitution. Does this mean that the Conservatives are now moving away from Denmark playing within the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144217	Thank you. After all, the proposal for adoption that has been put forward and which we have drafted and supported contains that we must respect both the law and remain within the framework of the Constitution, and that is why there is no landmark in it in this way. We have clear intentions to always comply with the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144238	Unfortunately, I have to stick to one brief remark for each; that is what I decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144243	Thank you. Well, in line with what the previous questioner said, the rapporteur is saying a lot of fine words, but let me just remind the rapporteur that the Conservative People's Party voted against the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party, precisely to take citizenship from all IS terrorists and not just those with dual citizenship. What is stated in the proposal for adoption is that we must remain within the framework of the constitution, but what is being asked here is the international conventions. I would also like to hear that I would be delighted if the Conservative People's Party had come to its senses whether the Conservative People's Party will also take the citizenship of IS terrorists who do not have dual citizenship but only have one.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144335	I can definitely say no to that. We have no intention of making people stateless.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144342	Thanks for this. Then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144348	I just feel like I'm being called to follow up on sir. Jeppe Bruus' question. Does the Conservative People's Party support the conventions, or is the Conservative People's Party ready to file on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144404	The Conservative People's Party has always supported operating within the regulatory framework, including the international conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144412	Thank you. And then we'll take one question. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144417	Thank you. It is also in the wake of Mr. Jeppe Bruus' excellent question, where I would very much like to follow up and ask what it is that has done, that Conservatives have agreed to a proposal for adoption with the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party, and not the other proposal for adoption with the Social Democrats and the Left, for example. Can the rapporteur say what makes this issue closer to the New Civil and Danish People's Party, which wants to have a dispute with conventions and the rule of law and everything else? Can the rapporteur elaborate on what Conservatives see in this cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144459	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144501	I can do that. It is extremely important to us that we avoid having terrorists brought back to Denmark. And in the proposal put forward by the Left and the Social Democrats there are, among other things, the following: Very vague wordings in which these people are urged to take the consequences and to stay away are therefore quite different means needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144521	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144535	This debate is not just about a handful of foreign fighters; it is about something much more important: democracy, the rule of law and the division of power. In other words, it is about the very pillars of the society that we celebrate and love so much. I do not think anyone today has any sympathy for the people who go to war for ISIS or other terrorist organisations that are doing violence against democracy. We certainly do not do that in the alternative, but if we are to safeguard democracy, we must avoid undemocratic solutions that simply push our problems into the laps of others. Unfortunately, that is exactly what we fear is happening here, in other words, that undemocratic, easy solutions are being taken. If all countries did what Denmark did, all foreign fighters would be left in countries such as Syria, unpunished and free to plan new terrorist acts. How is this a protection of Danish interests? How is it to increase the security of the Danes that there is no control over these people? Would it not be better to ensure that they were punished for their atrocities, and is it not more secure that terrorists are locked up than that we do not know where they are or what they are doing? For the alternative, the security of the empire is a priority and the crucial thing, just as the rule of law, our democratic values, are crucial. It is vital that, regardless of the actions and actions of the parents, we ensure that children are safe and safe, and that is why the alternative supports the proposal for adoption by the rapporteur for the Radicals, Kristian Hegaard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144749	Thank you. There are no authors, so thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120144805	Thank you for the floor. This is by no means the first time we have been discussing IS terrorists here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I must be completely honest and say that I am simply sickened by the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left, who are happy to open the door and welcome IS terrorists warmly to Denmark. I get so tired of the hypocrisy that we are experiencing from the Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, who say that IS terrorists are not going to Denmark, but still vote for them coming here. I can certainly understand that many Danes are sitting and getting politicians-led I get that, too, when I hear these things. The politicians, both red and blue, have for decades thrown themselves around with Danish citizenships to foreigners who should never have had it, and in this specific case to IS terrorists who have gone out to fight against our Danish soldiers and our values. For several weeks we have been discussing whether IS terrorists with Danish citizenship should have taken away Danish citizenship, and it is not surprising to me that the extreme left and Radical Left refuse and therefore expose the Danes to a massive security risk. But I am outraged and I am actually sad that both the Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance will only deprive the IS terrorists of the Danish dual nationality. It is not hard enough at all, and that is why IS terrorists have come to Denmark, which exposes Danes to a massive security risk. In New Citizens we believe that IS terrorists with Danish citizenship should have it taken away, and they should never be let back into Denmark, and we don't care if they become stateless. They've chosen. They have chosen Denmark from. Now we have to choose and we have to choose from them, and that applies both to them and to their children. It is time that the concerns for the safety and security of the Danes were put above the concerns for obsolete conventions. The extreme left and the Radical Left have given up talking sense, but why will the Social Democrats, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance expose the Danes to IS terrorists? Can you give a good explanation of why you put outdated conventions over the Danes? You promised the Danes a strict foreign policy, and you are failing again. I find it sad and incomprehensible that the Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance are so hypocritical about this issue. They are trying to convince the Danes that they are pursuing a strict foreign policy, but they are not. Fortunately, I am convinced that the Danes can see through your hypocrisy and your failure. It is beyond my comprehension that politicians can believe that we owe the IS terrorists anything. We owe them one thing, and that is that they can rot where they are; of course, they will never go back to Denmark. And those who have already returned to Denmark because of the failure of politicians must be deprived of their Danish citizenship and thrown out of Denmark immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145113	Thank you. I would remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we do not use direct indictments. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145121	Thank you. I would just like to focus a little on the proposal for adoption by the new citizens and Mrs Mette Thiesen here. As I understand New Citizens, you don't give a damn about conventions and so on, and I assume that's why this proposal for adoption has been made with the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. I would just like to know whether New Citizens can confirm that what we have to put in this proposal for adoption is that it is only the Constitution and not the Conventions that must apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145150	Yes, it is of course the constitution that will apply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145152	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145157	I think I was given the answer to my question, so I would really just like to say that Mrs Mette Thiesen will probably have to get used to investing in anti-nausea medicines, because in the SF we are therefore on guard over the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145213	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145214	I understand that the Socialist People's Party puts these obsolete conventions above the Danes' safety and security. So, yeah, it's gonna make me sick in the future, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145225	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, UFG. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145229	Thank you. Mrs Mette Thiesen says that you don't care about the IS terrorists and that they can rot and that it also applies to their children, because the consequence of New Citizens' views is that young children, Danish children, should rot in the Middle East. If anything in this debate should make you sick, it is probably precisely the view and not that there are a number of other parties that take the rule of law seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145305	I feel that we are all aware in this Chamber of course that there are some children. And I can imagine that you're also going to be unless Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille has changed his point of view, just as he has changed his party sometimes • forward-lookingly believes that the children are the parents' and not the Danish state. That is what we are saying. And these parents have made an active choice and have chosen Denmark from. That is why, of course, we also opt out of them, and since the children are theirs, the children are also.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145341	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145350	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a really, really exciting debate. After all, not many people have anything good to say about the Islamic State, and I am not one of them either. If one should point out one small thing, then it is that the Islamic State shows that our social model, that is, the politically liberal democracy, actually has existential enemies. And by that I mean enemies who have a desire to dismantle our social model and not just a desire for it, but also a stubborn will and considerable ability in that direction. It's not an enmity we've chosen. If we are to find an excuse for the reckless immigration policy pursued for many years, it is enough that the understanding of hostility, that is to say of this antagonistic contradiction, lacked or was certainly not very widespread back in the 1980s and 1990s. Now a large majority in the Danish Parliament is setting out that Denmark has an antagonistic enemy, and this requires, among other things, that we as far as possible refuse access for enemies of the nation Denmark to Denmark, and that is why I am of course very pleased with the proposal for adoption that we stand together with S and V about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145521	Thank you. And there's no questioners about the Liberal Alliance, so we're moving on to Mr. Simpson's. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, UFG. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145535	We all agree to denounce terrorist crimes. They have done wrong to people, they have killed people, they have raped, they have persecuted, they have terrorised, and no one has any sympathy for that. This debate is about several things, including how we should deal with the people who need to be punished. It can be said that those who are not Danish citizens are easy to relate to. I and my party think that the best and most ideal thing would be to have an international court that could deal with these people, take care of them, judge them and punish them. Until then, we must ensure that they are punished according to the principles of the rule of law, preferably so that they are, of course, punished in the country in which they are nationals. And just as I am also very much in favour of Denmark making sure that bad criminals from other countries are punished in their countries and have welcomed the fact that the bookseller from Brønshøj came home again, I also think that Danes who commit bad crimes should, as far as possible, be punished and served at home. Then there is the question of children, which is also reflected in the proposal for adoption that I have made together with the Radical Left, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, and there I think it is very important that we stick to the fact that children are children and that children are individuals and must be treated as such. Because if we do not take care to help these children, the only person who will be right in this debate is Mrs Mette Thiesen, Mrs Mette Thiesen, when she says that they will rot in the Middle East. Mrs Mette Thiesen was so enthusiastic about this, while I am saddened because I think we have an obligation to treat these Danish children properly. That is what we are forgetting in this debate. One pretends that it is not Danish children, but they are And just as we do in connection with Tøndersager, Brønderslevsager, where children are mistreated, abused, beaten, abused by their parents, of course we also have a responsibility for the children who will end up rotting in camps in the Middle East. That is why I and Forward have supported the proposal for adoption from a number of parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145832	Thank you for that, and then there is a comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145837	It's about this law, which was tabled and was dealt with urgently in the Folketing, with regard to the withdrawal of the citizenship of these IS warriors. - Sir... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille confirms that this is a re-submission of a law, as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille's former party Liberal Alliance and the previous government actually made? Because I understand from the rapporteur that he is very upset about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145906	In other words, if this is the law we are talking about in relation to the children that we are discussing and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has today confirmed has not yet been put before the Folketing, I cannot, of course, confirm it, because that is not really the case. Nor can I confirm that I should have been involved in making a legislative proposal. But let's take a look. These were the children we were talking about that Mrs Mette Thiesen would let rot in the Middle East to quote her herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145935	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120145939	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was refreshing and delightful to hear the rapporteur stand up for the rule of law in the legal society and confirm that we have received another vote in the Folketing, which will not make original sin a guide to Danish immigration policy. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150002	If it takes an answer or a comment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150005	I thank you for the words and look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150011	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's the ministers, first the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150016	Thank you, President, and thank you for a good debate, which in many ways also showed where the dividing lines are going. May I not start by saying that, as I myself said in my own speech, the first foreign warrior with Danish citizenship who has returned was the one who came the other day is not right. The first foreign fighters are We have a situation where there were 159 expatriated, and about a few and seventy have already returned to Denmark. But now we are seeing a new wave, and that is what we are dealing with, and in reality the Folketing shares in a number of different positions here: the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Alternative, who are willing to get the warriors home, the SF, which is a little more valent, but nevertheless, and then the majority that represents the proposal for adoption, namely the Social Democracy, the Left and the Liberal Alliance, standing on the view that the foreign warriors have turned their backs on Denmark, that they must take the consequences of their choices and stay away, that they should preferably be prosecuted locally, but if they come home they must be severely punished. And then there is the group of parties that include the Danish People's Party, New Civil and funny Conservatives, who are willing to take a step further. Where it is really funny is when it comes to the Conservative People's Party, namely to say that this will be done in spite of the conventions. It is, of course, the classic discussion we have in various contexts, namely whether we are best served as a country by complying with the conventions or not complying with the conventions. It is my view that, as a small country, we are clearly best served by being part of the international community and that, moreover, it is one of the fundamental principles that we have talked about today, that we are entering into agreements with other countries, that we have a world society that stands on the law and the law, and not as the alternative, namely the right of the most brutal or the strongest. However, thank you for a good debate and we will present further initiatives to deal with the situation we have with the foreign warriors.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150228	Thank you. Since it is the Minister for Justice who answers on behalf of both ministers, I will allow one question per question. rapporteur, and I would like to ask a great deal to ensure that time is fully respected. Because we're about to cross it, and we'd rather not. But we're gonna get to it a little bit. But here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150244	Thank you and, of course, thank you to the Minister for taking the floor here last time. One of the characteristics of this debate has been that it has also been about the children who are in Syria, for example, and a question I have asked several rapporteurs and not answered is, of course, whether if the children come to Denmark, it gives the right that their parents can also come to Denmark under the family reunification rules. Will the Minister of Justice not tell the Folketing whether there is not a real risk that if the children of e.g. Foreign fighters come home to Denmark, so will their parents also come with us afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150325	Here I am really faced with the unpleasant dilemma that I, as Minister of Justice, have to respond to another minister's resort, so this is the answer that I know best and can do. But for as far as I know and can do so, the problem is correct. The problem is that and I think it is relevant to bring it in, and questions were also asked about it a few times, which were not answered if we, if we take the children home and they have the right to family reunification, then have not opened a back door to bring the foreign warriors home. I find that really worrying. I do not know the family reunification rules, but I whispered briefly with the Minister about what confirmed that this could be the situation. But with regard to how, you have to ask a written question or do something else. This is as far as I can answer, and I am already well beyond my own resort and on uncertain grounds. But I'm a kind man.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150414	Yes, and the Minister answers on behalf of both. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, and I must leave it to the rapporteurs alone to ask these questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150424	So I do not know whether the Minister can answer a question which was actually addressed to the Minister for Integration. But I understand from the government that this bill will be put forward that children should not automatically have Danish citizenship because their parents have done something bad and so on. If we disregard the argument, I would ask the Minister to confirm, preferably with a yes or no: is it true that the Minister is of the opinion that the children have done nothing wrong, but that they are punished regardless of what the argument and the reason for it are? Can the Minister confirm this with a yes or no? The kids haven't done anything wrong, but you punish them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150508	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150509	The cases in which the children are involved are the cases that hurt. For me there is no forgiveness for the parents who brought their children to the Islamic State or who have had their children down there and who have chosen to give their children the worst possible start to life. But this is a situation that parents have created and for which parents must take responsibility. Having said that, a group of authorities has in fact been set up to clarify matters quite specifically, which has led us to take one child home so far at least and which probably means that we are going to take one more child home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150547	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150550	Thank you. In a speech a few months ago, the Prime Minister said to the godhavn boys: it is never the children's fault, it is the adults' fault, it is the adults who carry out the atrocities. In this context, I would like to ask whether this principle cannot also be applied to children born of foreign warriors who carry out atrocities, i.e. if they are not also without blame, if not only their parents have done the atrocities and the children are also without blame in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150627	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150628	Yes, and that is also why the cases relating to children are quite specific, particularly on the basis of safety considerations, that is to say what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl among others. pointed out before, but also whether they themselves can be radicalized, depending on how old they are, and among other things. the humanitarian concerns which, moreover, exist and, of course, Denmark's legal obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150647	Thank you for that and then the debate ends. No one else has asked for the floor. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday, 21 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150703	I have to inform you that those of Marie Krarup under no. Questions Nos 4 and 5, S 124 and S 125, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, will be withdrawn at the request of the author. We're gonna take a little break until we're in position. Now I think it's so calm that we can get started. And the first question is by Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille to the finance minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150743	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150745	Will the Minister state what initiatives the government has planned to ensure the competitiveness of Danish companies in the light of expectations of the international economic situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150757	Thank you. Denmark has a unique social model. We have high prosperity and strong social responsibility, and over the years we have also shown that a strong private economy and a strong welfare society are each other's prerequisites and not each other's contradictions. At the same time, the Danish economy is basically healthy and we are experiencing high employment, low unemployment and good growth in these years, and our companies are competitive. But I agree with Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Picture in that global growth prospects give rise to dark clouds on the horizon. I am thinking here, among other things. on brexit, of course, not least if it should end up with a hard brexit, the risk of escalating trade war and a weaker growth in among others. Germany, than we would have liked. But that does not change the fact that, when we look at the Danish economy, we basically have a good starting point. It is probably not surprising, even today's question, that the current government seems that the then government lacked ambition in terms of education and Denmark as a green growth nation, and therefore some of the things we can do to ensure Danish business in the coming years, precisely to invest in education, do not implement, for example. the savings that were before a number of educational institutions by the previous government and, of course, not least the focus on green growth. This is one of the things we can do that can really create the conditions for Danish industry, despite the fact that there are dark clouds on the horizon, to be able to cope with international competition. In addition, it is clear that the Minister for Industry is working very much day and night with the other government to ensure that this can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150954	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120150955	Thank you very much. I think we all recognise that Denmark is a small, open economy in a large global market, and I am pleased that for many years at least it was possible to have high growth together with strong business and strong social commitment and responsibility for citizens. After all, we must continue to be able to do so, and education and green growth are some fine elements, but how does the government actually view the tax part in relation to business? So how do you look at the question of being able to go in and look at things like this? corporate tax or profit-and-loss tax in order to create better conditions of competition for Danish companies compared to other companies? Or how about doing something better for entrepreneurs by making more tax benefits for them when starting up new businesses? Is there any of the ideas that the Minister of Finance has in mind, bearing in mind that it is true what the Minister of Finance says, and as the wise men have just said, and as the former Minister of Economic Affairs also said, that we are in a situation where we can see brexit, we can see trade war, we can see problems in Germany? There are many clouds on the horizon, so would it not be good to take some tax initiatives at the forefront instead of waiting for it to burn?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151116	I believe that the most important thing we can do for Danish business is to have a strong partnership in Denmark. This is also one of the reasons why the government in the green area and in the climate action has set up some very, very far-reaching and visionary partnerships with not only leading figures in the Danish business community but also with the business community as such. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the many, many Danish business leaders and organisations who, together with the government and other good forces, take responsibility here. We therefore believe that this is the right way to proceed, as the questioner suggests, just to take out tax cuts. We would rather focus our efforts, among other things. on the green and on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151207	Here you go. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151210	I'm thinking it doesn't have to be a either-or. I think it is a good thing that the climate challenges are taken seriously, and I think it is a good thing that we are looking for education, but if other countries, for example. If you have a corporation tax that is more competitive than the Danish company, it is not certain that it will be enough. So should we not do something about the efforts mentioned by the Minister of Finance, but also look at the tax situation in the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151240	I am sure that the former Minister for Economic Affairs will admit that the money can only be spent once, and the money that you choose to spend on tax cuts cannot be spent on, among other things. to provide really good training for young people and continuing training, which means that those who are already in work or those who are outside the labour market are given the best conditions for being part of the Danish business community. So I have full respect for the fact that we have different political starting points, namely that we can either choose to spend a great deal of money on tax cuts or, as a government, say that we would rather focus on education and the green agenda, among other things. also in order to ensure the welfare society that we believe is crucially important for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151330	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151331	Basically, this is an artificial contradiction, because the money must be earned and primarily served in Danish business, so that the finance minister also has something to rub with. So we need that growth, also in order for us to have a good education system, a good health system and a good social safety net, which I warmly support. What I am just nervous about is that in the international situation we have, Denmark cannot keep up some decent growth rates. That is why we need to make our business sector more competitive, among other things. through a lower corporation tax and perhaps by doing something in relation to shareholder profits and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151408	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151409	Where I think we can meet is in our common desire to strengthen Danish business. There is no doubt that in order for us to have a good and well-functioning welfare society, we must also have a good and well-functioning business environment. What is the fantastic story about Denmark is that you have been able to combine the two things. From the government's point of view, we believe that one of the essential prerequisites for us to have a working business is that we do not save on the education where our young people need to be trained. What was seen under the previous government was that it also saved on vocational training, and that is something that industry has also criticised. Now we go in from this government and say that we will invest more in education than the previous government would. On the other hand, there will be no money to give as much tax relief as the previous government wanted to give.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151503	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities, and that is by Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151515	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151517	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister agree that it is very bad to push forward demands for post-harvest crops long before the end of the agreement period, with major consequences for farmers when there are other options?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151533	Thank you to the Left rapporteur for the question. It is not a secret that I have been discussing this particular issue with the Left too, so that we want to limit the emissions of nitrogen into nature. We could not agree on that, but I acknowledge that we have had a dialogue on it. And when the government wants to adjust up this effort to limit the emissions of nitrogen into nature, it is of course because the emissions have not decreased as provided and there is not enough collective means to do so. And that is not because I see any reason to point the finger at the agricultural industry in particular, because we have to see that there are schemes where the search has not been good enough, and then there have been challenges in getting the systems to run as well. So if you have to point the finger at something here, it is, of course, that the previous government has apparently had too much expectations of this food and agricultural package that has been made. For there has been a low search for the schemes, but we have seen fortunately now that there has been an improved search ■ that is very good, and I would also like to praise agriculture for that, but there is no indication that we are going to make up for the backlog that unfortunately has arisen and which the previous government has left behind. So no, I do not agree that it is a bad idea to turn up the demands of the environment when we look at the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151718	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151720	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the invitation to talk over a cup of coffee to reverse these issues. Unfortunately, it was not possible, if you may say so, to make the ends reach each other. And what is so similar to the situation is that, if we are to compare it with a sports match, we are in the middle of the game; we are in the middle of the two halfs. And that is what really puzzles me and us, namely that you then come up with these extra demands now, as you move forward. Because normally you can say "If we're gonna judge the whole game, we're gonna have to bring both the first and the second half. So that is why I think it is bad, and it is also a little between the lines that the Minister is not so happy with the situation. Then it is not worth considering it once again and saying that we must have the whole fight with, so that we do not get into this bad situation of imposing extra demands right in the middle of getting it rolled out and especially in the light of the fact that we can now see that more progress has been made in the procedure and for example. the approval of wetlands?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151819	It is clear that it is never nice to have to make extra demands, and that is why, of course, this is not something I am happy about, but I am also doing it only because it is necessary and because the efforts of the previous government have not worked. And my predecessor in this post, who is now the President of the Left, said it then too: I have to tell you that if you do not do it one way, we will have to do it the other way. So the Left itself has already announced this spring that action would be taken if nothing happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151856	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151857	After all, it is good to focus on the issue. It was good that the former minister had it, and it is good that the current minister has it. And it is precisely in order that the accelerator can then be pressed to the extent that it is needed, for example. in terms of getting these wetlands up and running. So that is what is happening now, and that is also why I am all the more surprised that we are then coming and bringing forward these additional requirements which are now creating a number of problems. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether it might be worth considering once again whether we should not look at the whole period and see whether we should, for example, look at whether we should do so. Getting these wetlands up and running. Wouldn't that be worth considering?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151932	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151933	Well, I would very much like to see more wetlands, mini-marine areas and everything that can help reduce nitrogen emissions, and that is what we are doing. Now we're making this extra demand from 2020 because it's needed. We're behind with at least 800 tonnes of nitrogen. We're gonna have to catch up on that, and that's why the government's coming up with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151954	The last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120151955	Thank you. I think that the Minister is more and more aware of the fact that the Minister is, in fact, sorry to bring this up now. When you get this opportunity described, wasn't it worth saying: We should have judged the whole game? When you say that what has been put into effect in the past did not work, it is not really true, because it is now being confirmed that it actually works. And when you have another half, to put it that way, and we have the time to get it through, it wouldn't be better to say that then we'll have to get these wetlands going, and there might be other options as well. So there has to be a call from here to send this to rematch.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152040	I think that the rapporteur of the Left should be pleased that this government is implementing what the Left's own minister in this area, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, in a way he said he would do if the effort did not work. It does not work, we are behind, and that is why something more needs to be done, and that is what the government has taken the initiative for from 2020, and I hope that the Left will back that up in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152102	Thank you. That was the last of this round. Erling Bonnesen, Left, to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152110	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152113	Thank you for that, and that is also in line with the second. How will the Minister ensure that, long before the end of the agreement period with major consequences for farmers, which is very bad, opportunities other than the advance of demand for post-harvest crops are tested first?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152130	Well, thank you for this question, which follows on from what we have just discussed. I would, of course, like to make it clear that we must work to establish as many collective instruments as possible, because that makes very good sense. This gives a lasting effect on the environment, and in many cases it also gives some natural values and can lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which we are all interested in. So it is not either collective instruments or targeted regulation, it is actually both and. One of the challenges of collective action is that we do not have the assurance that it will be established to the extent that it is needed. That is why we have to say again that the previous government was too optimistic about the agricultural and food package. It has not given the effects as it should. That is why we must also look at what we can now do to increase the flow of collective instruments. First of all, we have an ongoing dialogue with the stakeholders from the scheme, and in addition, we have also decided to set up a steering group for nitrogen effort, in which we will support and strengthen that more of them come into operation. In that forum, together with the industry, we will also discuss efforts and find solutions so that we can make up for the backlog there is, and I hope the questioner will of course support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152302	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152304	Well, it's too early to conclude yet whether you're in goal or not. You can't judge that until the whole game is played. And following on from what the Minister himself has answered now, we could try to bring other instruments, other methods, other tools into play. I think that's kind of good. So should we not rather try to do so instead of bringing forward a number of other additional requirements for catch crops? It can be mentioned with early sowing, it can be mentioned with precision agriculture, that is to say other tools that the Minister himself has in his answer now. Shouldn't you take it in and then drive something around it instead of making extra demands, which are causing many complications?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152342	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152343	Now the rapporteur likes the comparison with sport, but it is certainly the case that if you find out at halftime that you are behind in a fight, you put in extra resources to ensure that you get the victory and the result and get the goal. That is what the government is doing in relation to the nitrogen effort. I do not understand why the Left cannot support this when you have been involved in setting the objective yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152408	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152409	What the minister does to stay in sports terminology is to move the finish line and in the middle of the half say: Well you don't get the second half with, because we're already ending the game here and whistling in the middle of the half. You don't usually do that. So that is why I say: let us use the second half to get some of the other things started, which can in a way better help achieve a good end result for the whole fight. That's what I'm appealing to. I understand, however, that the Minister would not quite like to go into this, but would rather just see it as something that is once far in the future. So briefly: will the Minister help to bring forward some of the various other instruments so that they can get into play more quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152446	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152446-2	In other words, since we are behind at least 800 tonnes of nitrogen that should have been emitted less, we have to do something to ensure that it is picked up. And that is what we do from 2020 rather than sit and wait until 2021. However, we are happy to enter into a dialogue with the Left on what will happen from 2021 onwards, because a great deal of effort is also needed to reduce nitrogen emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152514	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152516	But we are pointing out, instead of advancing the catch crops, that the second half could then be used precisely for some of the other instruments, and that is what I hear the Minister is not very much for. But in concrete terms: will the Minister help to postpone these extra demands, in other words do not move forward, put it where it belongs and then withdraw some of the other options instead, so that we can just run the 800 tonnes home?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152541	Last reply from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152542	No, we need to act now to ensure that we reach the limit of nitrogen effort. But there are other opportunities for agriculture as well. They can use intermediate crops, early sowing, and they can also reduce their quota for fertiliser use. So there are plenty of options, and I hope that the Left will look forward and help ensure that we reduce nitrogen emissions, as provided, in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152611	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152622	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152627	Will the Minister, referring to the answer to Question No. 26 to the Finance Act, where the Minister replies that no Danes will receive higher taxes on their pay slips, despite the fact that the Minister is asked how much of the Danes is affected by at least one of the tax increases that the Government has proposed to implement in the Finance Bill, explain why the Minister does not want to respond to what proportion of Danes will be affected by at least one of the tax increases that the Government has proposed to implement in the Finance Bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152656	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152657	Thank you for that, President. What I have answered is what is the government's policy, namely that no Danes will experience higher taxes on their payroll with the government's financial bill. As we have said before, we are rolling back a series of unfair tax rebates that the previous government has given to very special groups. We do that because, among other things, we do. wishes to improve education and our common welfare, which has been downgraded under the former bourgeois government. We are rolling back the biased tax rebate on the estate and gift tax, which in particular increases the tax for the groups with the highest incomes, we are continuing the applicable tax rules, thus continuing the applicable tax rules for free telephone and for the share savings account. This obviously does not lead to a higher tax for citizens. In addition, we increase the tax for carry bags and one-off services in order to reduce plastic pollution. It strengthens the green transition which a broad majority, including, of course, the Left, supports. Of course, it affects Danes who buy carry bags and one-time service. Finally, we are proposing higher taxes on tobacco because, unfortunately, too many people die every year from smoking and because higher prices are the most effective way of reducing smoking among children and young people. Of course, it also affects Danes who smoke. The common feature of both proposals is that we can avoid paying more money in taxes if we change our consumption. That is the answer which clearly shows how the government's tax policy will affect the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152841	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152842	Thank you. So that is to say, the minister responds on the assumption that the Minister believes that if all Danes simply change their consumption, they will not be affected by the government's tax increases, because the minister himself says here: yes, those who smoke will be hit by a tax increase, but they can just not; those who use plastic service or buy plastic bags when they buy in are hit by a tax increase, but they can just not. So does this mean that the Minister believes that it is their own fault if they are going to pay a higher tax, because they could just not buy a plastic bag, they could just not smoke, or they could just not have a stock savings account or a phone through work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120152923	If we take the debate on the tobacco tax, it is true that the government has proposed that it should be increased. I understand that the Left will actually increase it even more than the Government has proposed. That is fair enough, and we will take those discussions where they need to be taken. But it's just to put things in perspective. I assume that the Social Democrats and the Left agree that if you do not want to see an increase in the price of a pack of cigarettes, there is, of course, the possibility of not buying a pack of cigarettes. I think it is just as violent enough that I should be shot in the shoes, that I should be paying the Danish people a tax on fire, for example on tobacco taxes, when the Left itself has actually proposed a higher tax than that proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153011	Thank you. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153013	I am simply surprised that the Minister will not answer the question and actually provide a concrete figure on how many people are affected by it. Because that's kind of what I'm asking. I do not ask what considerations the Minister has had about the various legislative proposals I am asking, or that is actually Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, who asks how many Danes are actually affected by it. And the Minister fails to answer that entirely. Now the Minister is also speaking out of the question. Why is it that we do not want to give a specific figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153038	I have explained what is the government's tax policy. The government's tax policy is the one that I have explained here, namely that no Danes will experience higher taxes on their payroll with the government's financial bill. Then we are completely on the verge of setting priorities. We are rolling back some very big biased tax concessions that the previous government gave. For example, we spend this money on improving education for children and young people. We also say honestly that we want to do something about public health. We are doing this by ensuring that we can hopefully bring together a majority in order to raise the price of a package of cigarettes. We are also saying that we want to do something about what many people are discussing, namely plastic pollution, and that is why we want to raise taxes on carrier bags. But there's no change on the pay slip.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153119	Thank you, and here you go, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153121	But the Minister still does not provide any figures. The Minister will still not answer how many are actually affected by it. The minister says they don't want to see it on their paycheck. It's thought-provoking that this free-phone thing... that the government wants to lift the rule we've made about free-phone... can't be seen on the pay slip. Does the Minister think that no one has a free phone written on as part of their paycheck?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153143	What I said was that you will not see higher taxes on your paycheck as a result of what the government has proposed. And that's right. It is also true that if you buy a plastic carrier bag, you will experience an increase, you might say, in the price of a plastic carrier bag. That's what you want to do. Of course. But that depends on whether you buy it. There are many who have mule bags and everything else, and I think that is very good, because that helps to strengthen the environment. But basically, the government's tax policy is the one I have mentioned here, so that no Danes will experience higher taxes on their payroll with the government's financial bill. I think that is quite fair and, of course, I think it is fair and that is what I have presented here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153224	Thank you. That was the end of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153230	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153233	Does the Minister consider that this is a good custom when the Minister in reply to Question No. 26 to the Finance Act does not answer the question of what proportion of Danes will be affected by at least one of the tax increases that the government has proposed to implement in the Finance Bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153249	Thank you for that, President. What I have replied to and it will almost be a repeat of the answer to the previous question is what is the government's tax policy, namely that no Danes will experience higher taxes on their payroll with the government's financial bill. As I said earlier on the previous question, the government is rolling back a number of unfair tax rebates given by the previous government to some very special groups. We do so because, for example, we want to improve the education of children and young people, but also our common welfare, which we believe was downgraded under the bourgeois government. As I have said, we are rolling back the unfair tax rebate on the housing and gift tax, which in particular increases the tax on the highest income groups. We continue to apply tax rules to the free telephone and share savings account. Of course, this does not result in higher taxes for citizens. In addition, we are increasing the tax on carrier bags and one-off services in order to reduce plastic pollution, which is a serious problem, and thus we are helping to strengthen the green transition, which is, of course, a broad majority and now also the Left to support. It obviously affects the Danes, I admit, if you buy carry bags and one-time service it is clear. Finally, we are proposing higher taxes on tobacco, as the Left does, because too many people die every year, unfortunately, from smoking, and because higher prices are the most effective way of reducing not least smoking among children and young people. And it is clear that it also affects the Danes, who are smokers. As I have said, we can simply avoid paying more dollars in tax if we change our consumption. And that's what this is all about. We need less plastic contamination, and we need fewer people smoking and thus dying from smoking. So now I have said again what is the government's tax policy, and that is why the answer is: no Danes will experience higher taxes on their payroll with the government's financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153503	Well, I understand that the Minister would like to tell you about the government's tax policy, that is just not what I am asking. I wonder why the government does not answer the question that I actually ask, and I do, because we in Denmark have built it up so that the Folketing does not have a large calculation secretariat that can calculate everything for us. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to put questions to the ministers, who will then have to answer the questions, and here the Minister actually avoids answering that question, and that is what I am asking the Minister, that is to say, whether it is a good custom. And then I understand that the Minister would rather answer why the government is making the policy they are doing, so it is always more fun to stand and discuss politically, but it also requires us to have the foundation in place, that we can actually get the information we are asking about. And that is why I think it is actually quite essential that the Minister responds to whether the Minister thinks it is a good custom for the Minister not to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153551	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153552	The government has made it quite clear, that is to say, what tax increases we are implementing and intending to implement, with our financial law proposals, and that is very clear. We roll back a number of taxes and charges for some of the most affluent groups in Danish society. We do, among other things. because we want to invest in children and young people's education. We also say openly and honestly, like the Left, that we want to raise the price of tobacco and on plastic bags and one-off services. The first is because we want fewer people to become addicted and die from tobacco and smoking, and the last is because we want to do a little more for the green transition, because plastic pollution is a huge problem. It is clear if you smoke, and if you buy plastic bags every time you are in Netto or in Use or in Facts, or where you now shop, yes, there is of course a higher charge that you will pay. Of course. We say this openly and honestly, but it is about protecting children and young people from smoking and strengthening efforts for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153650	Thank you, and here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153652	That was still not the answer to a question. That is why I have to repeat the question once again: does the Minister think that it is a good custom not to answer factual questions from the Folketing so that the Folketing can obtain information that is needed in relation to the legislative work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153707	I think I have answered what the government's tax policy is. The government's tax policy is the one I have explained here. It means, as I have said, that no one will see higher taxes on their payroll as a result of the financial act that is taking place. We also say very clearly what we want when it comes to tobacco and when it comes to plastic. There's the answer to that to the Folketing. Why are we doing what we're doing? That is because we want more people not to smoke. It is clear that if you do not buy a package of cigarettes, you do not experience this price increase. It is also clear that if you do not buy a plastic bag, you do not experience the small tax increase that will be on plastic bags either. So that consequence is, of course, there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153749	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153751	I am not asking about the general tax policy of the Social Democrats or the reasons for it by the Social Democrats. I ask why the Social Democrats will not answer how many people are affected by it, and that is what I would like an answer to. Now the Minister has repeated himself over and over again and talked about the motives behind the policy he has. That's not what I'm asking. I ask why we cannot get a figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153812	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153813	The questioner is perfectly free to ask follow-up and detailed questions if you want to. What I have answered here is why we are doing it, and I mentioned what consequences it will of course also have for people who smoke or who buy disposable or other plastic products, for example. plastic carrier bags. Why are we doing this? This is because we want to spare more children and young people against smoking and that we want to do more for the green transition. That is why we have responded as we have done. It is clear that if you smoke, you will see a tax increase, and if you buy plastic bags every time, you will also see a tax increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153850	Thank you. And the question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Employment by Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153900	Thank you for that, President. The question is: What can the Minister say about how the job market for seniors works after it was established on 13 September 2019, as the job market for seniors does not appear on the front page of www.job.jobnet.dk?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120153921	Thank you for the question of the new job market for seniors that went up on 13 September. The Job Exchange stems from the agreement to ensure qualified labour, which the conciliation group behind the employment reform entered into in autumn 2018. The very idea of a job market is good. I can well imagine that if you become unemployed after many years of working in the same company, you may lose faith that one is needed in the labour market. Therefore, there must be a separate focus on the return of seniors to work. The new function at Jobnet allows seniors to mark that they are searching for jobs suitable seniors and pre-retirers. Similarly, companies can mark that a job is suitable for seniors and pre-retirers. It is not an independent site on Jobnet, and so the job market is not shown on the front page of Jobnet. Here 2 months after the new functions went up, it is still too early to finish how the job market works. A reduction on 12 November shows that there were 578 job seekers on that day who had indicated that they were looking for jobs suitable for seniors and pensioners. This suggests that the new function is being used by a number of seniors. On the same day, however, there were 25 job postings that companies had identified as suitable for seniors and seniors. 25 job postings are certainly not many, especially in view of the fact that there were more than 11,000 job postings on Jobnet in total. Therefore, it makes very good sense to launch a campaign on the job market, as has also been agreed. The Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment is in full swing with the work, and we expect the campaign to be launched at the beginning of the new year. The campaign isn't just about the job market. It also needs to be used to provide more general information on the opportunities to remain in the labour market as a senior, because we need to be better at maintaining seniors who can and will remain in the labour market. A good senior working life contributes to skilled labour and a rich society. That is why I am very much looking forward to receiving the recommendations of the Senior Think Tank, which are just around the corner and which will actually be presented tomorrow. Based on the recommendations, the government will look at how we can get even more seniors to stay on the labour market. The Job Exchange is a good idea and we need many more companies and seniors to use it, but we can probably also agree that more is needed to really move if we are to get seniors into the labour market. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154136	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154137	Thank you for that, President. Well, I'm glad the Minister for Employment thinks the job market is a good thing, because it's my invention. It is a job market that I agreed with the then Minister for Employment and which should be an easy approach for seniors and employers to meet each other. The point of this was to have a simple entrance; you had to have a platform for seniors and companies, where companies could click in and write that they had a job for a senior of perhaps 10 hours a week. And seniors could put their resumes in and write that they could last 10 hours a week and that they had them and those qualifications. Then employers and seniors could meet each other without the influence of the job center. It was self-service that you didn't have to go in and start clicking and searching all sorts of places. And it wasn't supposed to be the case that somebody was supposed to help. My experience after the short time and my understanding of it is that a job market has been established, where employers can then set a fly bone, in relation to the fact that it is jobs that are suitable for seniors. A million has been set aside. kr. For that, and if it's just to put a flybone, you've spent 1 million. kr., it is certainly an expensive solution, and that was not the intention of it. Well, I hope the Minister will see if we can make this work in another way, because as it is now, it is not good enough. Because it's also the case that seniors can just walk into Jobnet and press in and say that's the platform they have to get into. They don't have to do everything else, they just have to write that they want a job, and employers have to write that they want to hire a senior for a few hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154338	Thank you for that and thank you for the follow-up. I think that I can basically just confirm what I started by saying, because I think that the job market is a good idea, and I know very well that it is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who was one of the proposers behind the proposal. And I think, like the questioner, that it is clear to see that there is an interest on the part of seniors, that there are almost 600 people who have been there and that they are interested in a job that is suitable for seniors or pensioners, while we still need to get companies in. I believe that a great deal of this is about spreading knowledge of the function and spreading the message that both seniors and companies looking for seniors must make use of the functions that are available. And that is why we also need to keep following up, just as the board of directors in 2020 will launch a campaign about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154431	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154433	Thank you. The problem is that this is not just for seniors who are job seekers; it must also be for seniors who are outside the labour market and who say that they can actually last a few hours. This means that if you are not registered as a jobseeker, you have to either enter the search field in Find a job and e.g. write the "Egnet" to seniors, or also in the search box • Find a job • Click on • Show more search criteria• and then on the "Administrations" before reaching •Job suitable for seniors and pre-retirement workers•. That was not what was meant to happen, because there should have been a simple approach where seniors and companies should be able to meet each other without having to look at everything else in this regard. That is what makes it difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154510	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154511	I think it is quite obvious, as the questioner himself points out, that this has to be started and that we have to learn from the start of this process. It has just got up and running from 13 September, which is why there is a need for follow-up, and there is a need to spread the knowledge, and if, as the questioner has already concluded, it turns out, after it has only been going on for a very short time, that it is too difficult to find out, or that the functions are untransparent for many seniors who would like to make use of it, then I think it is clear that we should follow it up. But I think the first step must be to spread the knowledge among companies and seniors that you have these functions on Jobnet that can serve as a forum. And then I hope and believe that getting more seniors to work together with a number of other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154605	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154607	What the Minister is saying is fine, but I am talking about people who have experience with it and have tried to click on it. If you are already registered as a jobseeker at Jobnet, it may be simpler, but it is also for those who are not registered, those who are retired and who say that they will work a few hours. They can go in there and meet with an employer, or an employer can say that they can use a senior for a few hours, and it doesn't have to be someone who is already looking for a job. That's why it's so difficult. I would like to guarantee that I would advise the Minister what ideas lie behind the way in which this is to be set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154645	Thank you. Last reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154646	Thank you. This minister is very happy to accept guidance from Mr. Bent Bøgsted on this issue, because I know that the rapporteur himself was the driving force behind this idea. As I have said in some of my other answers, the situation is that almost 600 seniors are already ready and searching for it, whereas very few companies are, and this shows that there is a need for follow-up. And it's a follow-up that we can take and have to take, but I also know that during 2020 the board intends to follow up on it, while at the same time spreading the knowledge of using these functions for both companies and seniors.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154728	Thank you. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154735	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154738	Does the Minister also fear, as the Minister's party colleague, President of the Central Denmark Region, Anders Kühnau, that the Government's proposal to extend the employer's period of sickness benefit by 10 calendar days will affect health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154756	Thank you for the question. No, I do not fear that an extension of the employer's term will affect health. The proposal to extend the employer's period by 10 calendar days includes: The aim is to provide better incentives for employers to ensure a good working environment and thus prevent sickness absence. For this reason, the proposal also contains savings potential for employers if they reduce absenteeism in the workplace. It can therefore benefit both employers and employees. In addition, I also believe that the proposal should be seen in the context of the government's other proposals in the Finance Act, for which the extension is precisely helping to create funding, and the other agreements that we have been part of. In September, for example, we entered into an agreement. an economic agreement with Danske Regions, which raises health in the regions with approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. in 2020 • money, which inter alia: provides the opportunity to hire more healthcare professionals as early as next year. With the agreement, rising medical costs can be, for example. is also covered and at the same time ensures that money is included to cover the demographic move when there are more patients. This allows for an increase in capacity and more staff in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154901	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120154903	Thank you. I have to say that the Minister disagrees with the Minister's own party colleague, the President of the Central Denmark Region, Anders Kühnau, because Anders Kühnau emphasizes in the article in Politiken that the regions have a constant focus on the working environment, and he therefore rejects the idea that this proposal should create some additional incentive. So the proposal is not going to put a knuckle on the working environment. It is probably more about the government's need to fulfil some electoral promises, and money must be found for that. So I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can confirm that part of the total half billion kroner that comes from increased costs for doctors and nurses in the field of sickness benefits as a result of this proposal, the regions will now have to find within the framework of health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155001	Sir. Hans Andersen says it almost with great amazement that he has experienced two social democrats in the region and the government respectively disagree. I can reveal to Hans Andersen that this is not the first time, and probably not the last time, either. That's right, sir. Hans Andersen asks. Yes, we are going to extend the period of sickness benefit by 10 days, and there is no doubt that it would bring some money into the box if we did not change the behaviour. But the whole point is that it should change the behavior. This should be a point of view which Hans Andersen's party normally agrees with: that financial incentives also change behaviour in society; the final step towards companies and employers, whether public or private, improving the working environment so that sick leave is reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155055	Yes, please! Speaking time has passed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155057	But I think the Minister should try to listen to the large number of players who have been out to warn against this proposal in strong terms: regions I must then understand the minister does not listen to municipalities, FOA, the government's own parliamentary basis, Radicals. The criticism is unmistakable. The proposal costs employers dearly, it costs health care, and it can ultimately affect patients and the people on the edge of the labour market. Doesn't that impress the Minister at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155133	It always makes an impression when players and stakeholders have criticisms about the policy they want to follow. And that, of course, is something we listen to, and we also listen very carefully to it. What has to be said at the same time is that we also have very, very high ambitions in terms of improving the working environment. We have very, very high ambitions in relation to our desire to reduce sickness absenteeism, both in the private but, in particular, in the public sector. And we know that much more can be done. We believe that some additional instruments are needed to encourage both public employers and private employers to invest in a better working environment, and they now have a clear incentive to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155216	Thank you, and here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155218	But in relation to this particular case, it must mean that the Minister does not believe in the Regional Council of the Central Denmark Region, who says that they are working all the time to ensure a good working environment. And they do not because it is about the economy, they do because they want to ensure an attractive workplace. So this proposal makes no difference to improving the working environment. Doesn't that impress the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155244	Thank you. And here you go for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155245	Well, as I said, we always listen to the criticism that may come. At the time of the flex job reform, when employers of both public and private nature were asked to pay more, there were also loud protests as people thought that it would make the flex job scheme completely die. Today we are in a situation where there have hardly ever been as many flex jobs as there are now. We have a hope and a belief that this is a tool that will work in terms of reducing sick leave, which we think is far too high, both in the public sector and in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155320	Thank you. And the question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Employment by Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155327	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155329	What is the Minister's reaction to Professor Dorte Gyrd-Hansen, director of the Danish Center for Health Economics at the University of Southern Denmark, thinking that the Government's proposal to extend the employer's period of sickness benefit by 10 calendar days can affect patients in hospitals and that if Danske Regioner gets an additional cost of DKK 50 million, it could easily mean 100 to 150 fewer good years of life for patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155357	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155400	I do not, of course, believe that an extension of the employer's period by 10 calendar days will cost good years of life for patients in Danish hospitals; that is obviously the case. The proposal to extend the employer's period by 10 calendar days will entail an additional cost for the regions of approx. 42 million kr. annual. I believe that this is an overly simplistic way of assessing the good years of life of citizens, and I believe that the proposal should instead be seen in a wider context. The revenue generated by the extension of the employer's period must help to create room for other proposals that can strengthen the welfare society broadly. A Finance Act requires priority to be given and funding given to key issues. As I have already said, the government and Danske Regioner have also reached an economic agreement back in September, which is very much in the interests of health care. In fact, the economic boost is significantly greater than in the last four years' economic agreements in the field of health. That is why I do not believe that the proposal to extend the employer's term would impair the Danish health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155500	The Minister says that we need to see the proposal in a wider context. It is, of course, convenient from the Employment Minister's chair, but in those regions and out in the municipalities where this is going to entail a considerable extra cost, I understand that you are not interested in seeing this in a larger context, but look at it very closely and very concretely. After all, the Minister's party colleague in the Central Jutland Region has clearly stated that the government's proposals will mean less money to provide health, to provide care for the Danes. And if you look at the figures for the municipalities alone, then that corresponds to approx. 260 full-time positions; these are nurses. I understand that the Minister is interested in seeing it in the broad picture, but can the Minister not understand that for patients who are now receiving worse treatment and for those who are in contact with the municipality and now have fewer nurses taking care of the treatment, the big picture is not very interesting? Then it is all about the fact that it is wrong when the government's proposals lead to poorer health services for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155611	The Danish patients under this government will not get worse treatment; on the contrary, they will get better treatment. The economic agreement that has just been concluded with the regions gives a greater economic boost than has been the case in the last four years of economic agreements with the regions, which the questioner's party colleagues, when they were in government, led. That is why the questioner is right to say that this is about the big picture. It's about the big picture, compared to the total amount of money you invest in the health service... that takes this government really well and is willing to invest a lot... but it's also about the big picture, in terms of how much ambition you have to reduce sick leave, how much ambition you have to improve the working environment. There we have very great ambitions and we actually believe that an economic incentive by extending the employer's period can actually make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155704	• In the end, we have nowhere else to take the money from but our health care framework," says the Minister's party colleague, Regional Council Chairman of the Central Denmark Region. Can the Minister please explain to me, the Folketing and his party colleague in the Central Denmark Region, where the money must be taken from if it is not to be taken from the framework for health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155727	In the first place, I can start by reminding my party colleague in the Central Jutland Region that the new regional agreement provides a significantly greater boost to health care than has been the case in the previous four economic agreements under the then government. The second thing I can tell my party colleague in the Central Jutland Region is that there will be no additional cost or additional expense if you are more skilled in reducing sickness absenteeism in the Central Jutland Region, so that you will not experience an extension of the employer's period. That is what the whole idea of the proposal is: that we want employers, whether public or private, to do even more to improve the working environment and to prevent their employees from being long-term ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155812	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155814	Does this mean that the Minister recognises that the Minister's party colleague in the Central Jutland Region will not succeed in reducing sick leave, so will the Minister's party colleague in the Central Jutland Region be forced to go in and save on health because of the government's proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155827	Thank you. Last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155829	My party colleague in the Central Jutland Region will not have to save; he will be adding more money as a result of the economic agreement we have just concluded. And it's true that it will cost money as an employer. There's no reason to belittle if you don't succeed in reducing sick leave. But the whole idea of financial incentives to change behavior is that they should have an effect, and we believe that this will have an effect. We are, of course, listening to the points of appeal and criticism, but we actually believe that this can be a significant contribution to raising the level of ambition for our working environment and for our health in the Danish workplaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155914	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Employment from Morten Dahlin, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155922	Read up. Read up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155926	What does the Minister think about the comment from DI.'s sub-director, Steen Nielsen, who to Berlingske on 2 October 2019 says that the Government's proposal to extend the employer's period of insurance by 10 calendar days means that the companies can be reluctant to hire new ones in some situations and that companies that have taken some of them from the edge of the labour market get an extra bill which will go beyond the companies' desire to take a social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155950	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120155951	With the proposal to extend the employer's term, we do not change the arrangements that apply today, which allow employers to feel safe by employing citizens at increased risk of illness. For example, the employee, the employer and the municipality will: could continue to conclude a so-called section 56 agreement. This means that people who are at increased risk of sickness absenteeism at work due to long-term or chronic illness may enter into an agreement which means that the employer can receive reimbursement as early as the first day of absence. Employers who employ people in flex jobs will also be able to continue to receive reimbursement from the first day of illness. That is why I do not believe that the proposal should affect employers' desire to take social responsibility and employ employees with an increased risk of sickness absence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160041	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It just doesn't add up, because if this proposal means that more people want to have a section 56 agreement, it will in fact increase the financial costs. Then the government doesn't get the money you want by means of the bill, and then the government's economic policy doesn't stick together. In addition, the Minister could perhaps tell how long it takes to get such a section 56 agreement approved and how many percent of those who apply for a section 56 agreement actually get it awarded. If the Minister cannot reply to that, he is very happy to reply later, otherwise his arguments are not consistent. The Minister has also said on several occasions that this is about reducing absenteeism. I would really like to ask the Minister what the Minister thinks has changed since 2012 because the 2017 report of the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work shows crystal clear that long-term sickness absenteeism increased when the employer-paid sick period was set up by 10 days in 2012. At that time, more sick leave came out of this proposal. What has the Minister found out that this time it should have the opposite effect and that there will be less sickness absence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160154	To begin with, I would very much like to reply in writing to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Dahlin's question. At least the first ones are them. The second point I want to make is that, as I have said several times to both Mr. Morten Dahlin, to his party colleague Hans Andersen and in the debate in general, namely that we listen to the concerns that exist. I also note that the concerns of both private and public employers were also there at the time, to which the rapporteur refers, the last time the period of illness paid by the employer was extended. This did not mean that there were fewer people on the edge of the labour market who got employment. The concerns were also raised in connection with the flex job reform, where it was said that now it means that we are not going to take in any more flex jobs. It had the opposite effect. It is difficult to see that it has had an effect when companies do not want to hire people on the edge of the labour market, at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160250	That's not what I asked the Minister about. I asked about the fact that the Minister has stood in the Chamber today and said that the government is putting forward this bill, among other things. to reduce sickness absenteeism. The last time a similar bill was implemented, the long - term absence of sickness increased. The National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work has documented this in black and white. What exactly has happened since the Minister now expects that exactly the same bill will have the opposite effect and reduce sickness absenteeism when it actually increased the long-term sickness absence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160323	I am not sure that there is necessarily a causal link between extending the period of sickness benefit paid by the employer and increasing sickness absence. I would very much like to look into it and reply to the rapporteur in writing or return to this Chamber. I am not sure that it can be said that there is a causal link between the two. Perhaps at that time, on the contrary, there were a number of other circumstances which led to an increase in sickness absence. In addition, what is fundamental here is that we can see that we still have too much sickness absenteeism in many areas of society, especially in the public sector, where we want to do more to provide an economic incentive to reduce it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160405	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the Minister that we must do everything we can to reduce sickness absence. That is why I am just surprised that the government is showing up with a bill which last time it was implemented caused long-term sickness absence to increase, but there are so many things that can be difficult to understand. FOA has been out to say that the government will punish social responsibility and make it harder for people on the edge of the labour market to get in. Can the Minister not here today briefly explain why the FOA is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160437	Because, as we have seen, both the last time the employer-paid period was extended, and when the flex-job reform was introduced, which also asked employers to pay a little more, it did not in fact diminish the desire of the public sector or private employers to take social responsibility and hire people who may be either suffering from long-term illness or who have other problems that make them absent. And I think that is a good thing, and I think that the companies and the public employers should be extremely praised for it. That is why I do not think, as the chairman of the FOA says, that this will reduce the desire to hire people on the edge of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160518	Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the author. The question has been answered. 12, and it is also to the Minister for Employment by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160529	Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160533	Make an impression on the Minister when Professor Dorte Gyrd-Hansen, head of the Danish Center for Health Economics at the University of Southern Denmark, says that the Government's proposal to extend the employer's period of sickness benefit by 10 calendar days may affect patients as there is a danger that additional costs for KL and Danske Regions will affect core benefits. That is to say, patients. And is it important for citizens' health?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160600	Thank you for the question. Of course, I am impressed when a professional speaks on the proposals we are working on in the government. It is always beneficial to have a case clarified from a number of quarters. I do not think, however, that such a clear parallel can be drawn from the proposal for patients in the Danish health service. The aim of the proposal is precisely to create better incentives for employers to ensure a good working environment and prevent sickness absence. As I have already said today, the proposal thus offers a potential for savings for employers, including the regions, if, through a good working environment, they manage to reduce sickness absenteeism. Furthermore, as I said, we have reached an economic agreement with Danske Regions, which raises health in the regions by about 11⁄2 billion. kr. in 2020. That money, for example, gives money. the possibility of hiring more healthcare professionals as early as next year. With the agreement, rising medical costs can be, for example. is also covered and at the same time ensures that money is included to cover the demographic move when there are more patients. It allows for the increase of capacity and more staff in health care. That is why I am convinced that the proposal will not affect the health care of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160710	With the proposal, the Minister proposes that the employer should pay a larger proportion of the bill when the employees receive sickness benefit. This applies to both a public and a private employer. In other words, where the employer has to pay for the first 30 days today, the Minister envisages that in future the employer will have to pay 40 days. As I understand the Minister, one of the ideas behind the proposal is to create an economic incentive for the employer to prevent employees from becoming ill. As I understand the Minister, the idea is that if the employer is pressured on the economy with the employee's illness, he will do more to create a healthy working environment that prevents disease. This, of course, stems from a logic that the working environment affects the health of employees, and I fully agree with that. I imagine, however, that the Minister also sees other advantages of the proposal, for example. that it is a saving exercise that gives the Treasury 395 million. kr. extra in the period 2020-2024, and this is actually where the proposal worries me. After all, the money taken by the state from the employers must be saved in the workplace, and logically we hear from both regions, municipalities and professors that the austerity exercise can affect patients and citizens. My question focuses precisely on this, i.e. on whether it is good for the working environment that you have to save on the employees you have hired to help. So my question is this: does the Minister really believe that it creates a better working environment for doctors and nurses, that health care must cut its finances so that patients are affected? In other words, does the Minister believe that the working environment of a doctor or nurse improves when they are forced to provide less or less service to patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160851	There are no doctors or nurses who are forced to or are going to provide a inferior service to patients. As I have mentioned several times in today's debate, we have even given a very strong priority to making an economic agreement with the regions that boosts the health services economy. It is the most comprehensive and largest investment in health care in the last four years in which economic agreements have been made under the then government. Therefore, doctors and nurses will experience an improved opportunity to do good for patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160931	I must say, I'm a little puzzled. But with such a proposal, which somehow weighs the treatment of patients lower than the working environment of employees, I have some doubts as to what is most important to the Minister. That is why I also have this question: what is most important about the working environment or the treatment of patients? Is the proposal an expression of the Minister's view that the working environment should be lifted at the expense of patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120160955	The health and safety at work must not be lifted at the expense of patients. I believe basically in a philosophy that the two things should go hand in hand. The questioner actually asked a relevant question about what to do with the money you get into the box, so to speak. I would like to say frankly that, in the best of all worlds, I have a hope that this works as intended, so that less money will come in than is expected, in the sense that creating economic incentives and investing in regions, municipalities and the state in improving working conditions in the workplace will actually make a difference. This is the basic mission of this whole proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161043	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161043-2	So am I to understand that the Minister is not impressed by the fact that regions, municipalities and professors are actually expressing that this proposal is going to hit patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161100	That always impresses me, and I think that is what I started by saying in my reply to the questioner. I am always impressed when there is criticism of proposals that I or the government have made, and in particular a proposal like this. At the same time, however, I would also like to point out that the basic core of the proposal is that we need to do more to improve the working environment, that we need to do more to bring sick people down. This is something we have been trying to do for many years, and we believe that the next step that needs to be taken to do more is to create financial incentives that will also make employers, both public and private, act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161140	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The question has been answered. The next question is also to the Minister for Employment. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 13, and that's what Mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161154	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161156	Thank you. Make an impression on the Minister when Danish Occupation believes that the Government's proposal to extend the employer's period of insurance by 10 calendar days will have implications for employees and for groups on the edge of the labour market. When the cost of sickness absenteeism is increased, does it reduce the ability to retain the affected employees, as the head of the Danish Occupation says in the article "The government will reduce the inclusive labour market from 11 October 2019 at www.danskopgav.dk?"
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161236	Thank you for the question. I do not believe that an extension of the employer's period by 10 calendar days will reduce the inclusive labour market, as Danish Occupations suggests in the article mentioned. The proposal must precisely help to create better incentives among employers to improve the working environment, which will ultimately benefit both employers and employees. As I have also pointed out in my previous reply, the proposal does not change the arrangements that apply today, which make employers feel safe by hiring citizens with an increased risk of disease. That is why I am also sure that we will continue to have a healthy and inclusive labour market, even if the employer's period is extended by 10 calendar days.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161316	Thank you very much to the Minister. I am sorry that this is going to be a bit of a repetition here today. I am a little surprised that the Minister does not fully understand the concern, but I would like to go somewhere else to ask a little about the social contract. We fully agree, when we look at the business world in general, that the cases of, among others. money laundering and dividend taxes are deeply outraged. However, it often sounds to the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Industry, as if it were the whole social contract and the business community that it is wrong to do so. However, we believe that the economy is largely responsible for their social responsibility and for the social contract, because every day they keep the wheels in Denmark running. They create new jobs; they create jobs where most employees like to be and where they feel better than many of their European colleagues; they take good care of the sick; they pay taxes; they create flexibility for those who are going in or out or who may have to go into the family; they take a great deal of responsibility in the community; they train the next generation and the generation already in progress. I also think, in relation to the sick people we are talking about here today, that the business community is willing to live up to their share of the social contract. Now I have not had the opportunity to discuss this before with the Minister for Employment, but I would like to hear the Minister for Employment: what does the Minister for Employment think about the social contract with industry in the area of the Minister for Employment? I assume he thinks things are going well, and if he thinks so, why is it that they should be punished with an extra burden in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161443	I would like to start by thanking you for the follow-up question, and I would like to confirm that basically I think that there is a need, and this is imperative, for having a strong, prosperous, secure society and for remaining a strong social contract between business and all groups in society. So I will start by confirming that I basically believe there is. But I do not think this proposal should be seen as a burden on business. It is an attempt to put pressure on the ambition of improving the working environment and improving the basic health environment, you might call it, and to reduce the absence of sick people and to give companies an economic incentive. The rapporteur may then think that this is a reverse incentive, but nevertheless an incentive to reduce the absence of sick people, which, among other things, is the case. Also, poor working conditions can sometimes help to do too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161544	After all, we agree that the social contract is largely being fulfilled, so I am glad to hear that. But let's say that the dynamic was the right one, so this proposal would work in terms of reducing sickness absence. Can the Minister then explain whether there is a situation where the proceeds of this are going to be zero? And how much, on the basis of this proposal, do employers actually have to reduce sick leave so that they do not have to pay extra?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161612	There is no doubt that in the perfect world, where we assume that this works completely after the dreams that have been set out for the proposal here, this would result in zero revenue, as the rapporteur asks. The same applies to the proposal that we have and that the rapporteur's party has to increase taxes on tobacco, for example. If everyone stops smoking tomorrow, then there will be less money in the box. That would be a good thing, and then we would have to fill the gaps in the future budgets that have been used. Unfortunately, I do not think it will be quite that way, but I seriously believe that this can help to push the awareness of both private companies and, in particular, the public sector to say: okay, we have to do something more. We need to invest in our health environment at work, which means that fewer of our employees end up getting sick, whether it is of long-term stress or other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161712	Thank you, Minister. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161713	As far as I understand the Minister, the Minister does not believe that this proposal will lead to nothing being paid at all. So the minister agrees that this actually means that the business community will pay considerably more... hundreds of millions more... because of this proposal. Does the Minister think that this is fair, given these jobs, and that those who have to bear the greatest burden are SMEs, who take a great deal of responsibility, including in the Minister's area, in relation to, for example, the case of SMEs? apprenticeships?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161740	Unfortunately, I think the rapporteur heard me wrong, because I think this will have an effect. There is no doubt that we are listening to the criticism that has come from all over the world and that the rapporteur's party has asked many questions about it today and it makes an impression. But I definitely believe this is gonna work. I'm just not naive either, and I think that from one day to the next we'll be reducing sick leave so much that no one will ever pay more. And I think it will turn out that it is probably in some of the companies and in some of the public employers where you have the least focus on reducing sick leave and where you invest at least in a good working environment and a good health environment where it is you will see that the bill will surely rise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161825	Thank you to the Minister and to the questioner. The question has been answered. 14, and it is addressed to the Minister for Employment, and that is by Mr. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161836	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161837	What does the Minister think about FOA chairman, Mona Striibs, response to the government's proposal to extend the employer's period of insurance by 10 calendar days, which to JP on 21 October 2019 has said that "Instead of trying to maintain sick workers, we fear that employers will make them redundant to a much greater extent and that, at the same time, the government's proposal does not help our sick members?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161907	The Minister of Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161908	Thank you for the question. As I have mentioned a few times today, the proposal to extend the employer's term has, among other things, been extended. The aim is to ensure a better working environment in the Danish workplaces. Hopefully, this will ultimately mean fewer sick workers and thus benefit both employees and employers. That is why I believe that the proposal can help both FOA members and others in workplaces where the working environment can be lifted. The special arrangements that exist today, which enable employers to feel safe by employing citizens at increased risk of illness, do not change, as I have said. That is why I also hope that companies will not, in the future, fail to recruit skilled workers or that, as Mona Striib fears, they will make more of the employees who may be affected by illness redundant.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120161956	I would like to understand the dynamics that the Minister hopes will take place in both public and private jobs, because the proposal here goes on to the long-term health reporters because it is raised from 30 to 40 days. According to an answer we've received from the Ministry, 8 percent. of all those who are sick, sick for more than 30 days, so how large is the coalition between the group of sick at the 8%. and then the working environment that is out there where the employer can actually do something? Can the Minister elaborate a little more on the dynamics that the Minister has seen in the figures and studies available to the Minister, which make him confident that this will actually reduce sick leave and, as the Minister has said a few times in this Chamber today, will make both public and private employers focus a little more on it? What kind of coalition is this because I find it hard to see? I think it is a little out of the hands of the employer when we talk about the long absence of illness, whereas, when we talk about the short absence of illness, I fully understand the coalition. That is also why we have so far felt that the first 30 days had to be paid by the employer, but now we want to increase it to 40 days. I think that an excessive burden is placed on business, which does not necessarily have to do with anything they can do about it. I therefore believe that Mona Striib is, unfortunately, right to say that this can force employers into thinking that the only thing they can do if they do not want to pay the millions extra that the proposal proposes is actually to say that they should not have any of those who may be affected by illness instead of doing what the Minister says, namely do something about the working environment because they cannot quite see the coalition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162132	As already mentioned, employees who are on the edge of the labour market and who may be chronically ill or have longer periods of sickness absenteeism may have many of the schemes that exist, including: I would like to clarify in writing a little more in relation to the coalition, but basically I think that it is also very much about the fact that in a number of jobs, public as well as private, you can be better at planning the work, which means, for example, that there will be less stress, something which, unfortunately, often tends to be sick periods. It is just to mention an example where I think there may be a coalition and where an employer then says that then we invest in better planning for among other things. to prevent stress.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162231	I'd like to ask you a little more about that. For, according to some studies, this suggests that there is generally an increase in stress in society. We fully agree on this and I am deeply concerned about it. But in relation to the fact that it has less to do with work and work than we may think, I would like to ask: how is it that the Minister sees that it is especially there, it hurts, in relation to stress and the relationship between stress, and what is happening at one's work? due to stress, less?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162303	After all, the rapporteur is right in saying that studies show that this is due to a large number of factors, but work often also plays some kind of role, and also plays an important role. And I believe, as I have said several times today, that we stand in a place where we are a very prosperous society, we have very close to full employment in Denmark, and basically we have companies and public employers crying out for labour so much that we need to recruit from third countries far away from the European Union etc. One of the things we are concerned with in the government is that we simply need to do more to prevent people from getting sick from going to work. And there we also allow ourselves to make demands on private employers and public employers to do more and invest more, and we do so by using a well-known tool as an economic incentive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162400	One final question: does the Minister hope that this proposal will be part of the final financial agreement for 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162411	If the government were not hoping that it would be part of the final financial agreement, then we would not have put it forward. But, of course, as I have said to the rapporteur and to a number of his party colleagues and others, we are listening to all the criticisms. We do so every time we put forward proposals, just as the rapporteur, when he was a minister, did, and I also had great respect for that. And then you have to take the debate from there. But basically, of course, we believe in the instrument and that is what it takes to reduce sickness absence. Whether the right balance sheets have been found, etc., I think we can always discuss, but basically I think we need to ask for something more from both public and private employers if we are to reduce our sick leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162458	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The question has been answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20191120162504	At the end of the meeting there is a further review: The Treasury Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 71 (Proposal for a Law amending the Property Assessment Act, the Property Advance Tax Act, the Property Value Tax Act, the Municipal Property Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative on leave, I have been informed that from 22 November 2019 onwards he will be able to rejoin the Tinget. Mrs Mira Issa Bloch's term of office as a member of the Folketing shall cease from that date. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 21 November 2019 at 9.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
