ParlaMint-DK_20190129130031	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Rasmu Nordqvist (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 84 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the development of risk assessments of global warming scenarios) and motion for a resolution No. B 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a plan for the dismantling of hydrocarbon production in the North Sea over a period of 10 years). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130054	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 56 by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Marcus Knuth (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of voting 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 56 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 55 by Lotte Rod (RV), Mette Reissmann (S), Rosa Lund (EL), Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Jacob Mark (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130214	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 58 by Simon Kollerup (S), Erling Bonnesen (V), Carsten Bach (LA), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Orla Østerby (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 58 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 57 by Karina Due (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 59 by Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL), Christian Poll (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130325	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130403	Thank you for that, President. I just want to say that I think it is gratifying that the Social Democrats have decided to vote in favour of this reduction in the tax on the insurance of yachts. But I would also like to say that I think it would be very nice if S could stop campaigning against the policy that they then eventually choose to vote for, they even demonise the policy they choose to vote for. I've found a few quotes that I think are relevant to read out. That's what S has said about this proposal. Sir. Jesper Petersen, S's tax rapporteur: It is the gift of the Liberal Alliance to Fritz and the Poul segment with expensive boats in Vedbæk, Skovshoved and Rungsted Mette Gjerskov: That's how it is. A child dies every five seconds in the poor part of the world. The government chooses to lower the tax on yachts. Sir. Bjarne Lausten: On the previous financial laws, the priorities have been right next to the skiing with the lowering of car taxes on non-climate-friendly cars and now on expensive yachts. These are the pictures that have been drawn by Social Democrats. I could go on. There are a large number of such quotes, and now the Social Democrats are voting in favour. I think it would be wonderful and fair if all the social democrats who have been criticizing this now went to Twitter and said: we are voting in favour because we actually think it is a very good policy. Because that must be why we are voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130555	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? No, there isn't. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130604	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130636	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130740	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130751	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130753	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been unanimously adopted and will now be sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130827	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote. I'd like to ask you to calm down. Even if people walk out of the hall, you don't have to talk to each other. It has to be quiet. I will stop the sitting for a moment until people who are not supposed to be here have gone out, because we cannot concentrate on this when people talk so much. Is there some sort of calm? Then we can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130951	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129130955	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129131017	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Before the next item on the agenda, which is the question No. F 2, let's see if all the cards have been replaced and if we're in place on the front row. We'll just wait a minute. Then we're about to be there, and then we're gonna start the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129131217	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 31 January 2019. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129131244	Thank you. When we have asked the Prime Minister to explain the government's value policy with a focus on the challenges arising from immigration, which pressure the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and correct for the sake of immigrants, it is based on the fact that Denmark continues to be pressured because of Muslim immigration in particular, but also because of immigration as a whole. It is important that we show in here that we take the Danes' concerns seriously. There are major problems in our schools and day care centres, and this also relates to the immigration to Denmark, as there has been and as there is still to a certain extent, and there are also problems with crime and extreme groups in society. There are Danes who feel alien in their own country, and that is of course untenable, and we must take this seriously, and that, in its simplicity, is the reason for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129131341	Thank you. Then it's the PM for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129131350	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for tradition believe to take the initiative for a query debate on the Danish values. That is an important question. What does it mean to be Danish? What are the values of the traditions and culture that are ours, and what will it look like in the future? It is wise to think about, both for new and for old Danes, and the debate is not new either. This year it is 800 years since Dannebrog, according to legend, fell from the sky. At that time, Denmark looked somewhat different from today. Culture, values and traditions are not static. They change like everything else. For approx. A hundred years ago, for example, we had to do something about it. be 35 years old to vote for the Landsting. Most women went home and were dependent on their husbands'income. At school, you had to beat the kids. It is not a Danish value today to beat children. Apparently, it used to be. Things change over time. I remember when I went to school myself and Ibrahim entered the class after the summer break as the first and the only one with a foreign background. I also mentioned it in my New Year's speech. When I was in high school, throughout Denmark there were about 50,000 people with a nonwestern background. Today that number is close to half a million. So on a generation our country has changed and it challenges us, and we have to discuss that, we have to act on it. But we also have to do so based on what is a reality, namely that we cannot turn back time. We stand where we stand. We have to take it from here, find out together, both old and new Danes. Denmark is a country according to geography. Some people live here, but it is more than that, it is also a community. It becomes clear to me that it was only last night when I was at a memorial event for Kim Larsen, while everyone else was at City Hall Square to celebrate our world champions. I was at his old seminary, which today is Copenhagen University College. Kim Larsen collected Danes across generations, residence, jobs and background. He struck something in all of us, not only through his songs and his poetry, but also through his way of being, earthy and unimpressed, perceptive, both in words and thoughts, but only as last was Kim Larsen exponent to freeness of mind, the freedom to be who you are, along with others. And to me, it is a particularly valuable part of our community. In a true community there must be room for diversity, room to accommodate diversity, the individual as he or she is, but, on the other hand, freeness of speech is not the same as indifference. A real community also has its limits, and the question is where we set those limits. And the debate between spaciousness and where we set the limit is important at all times, and not least at a time when much is being broken up. Part of this break-up is because over the years we have opened our door to thousands of people on the run, opened our door with a good heart and also with someone, it has proven over time, naively believing that everyone who came here would want us so much that they would also take our values to heart, seek out and become part of the Danish community. It's not that simple. We know that now, and it is a lesson that has been somewhat slower for some than for others, to say it as it is. Too many people came in with a starting point that was too distant culturally and value-wise, and this has pushed our Danish community. And it can't go on like that. Here's a limit. Numbers matter. Many of us have meant that for a very, very long time. There seems to be some more who subscribe to that view now, and that is good, because we should not let in more than we can accommodate. That is why the government is pursuing a strict and consistent immigration policy. I know that there are many people, including in this Chamber, who think it is too hard, but I also believe that there are many who share my concern for Denmark, and one thing we can at least make clear: the government's policy works. The EU's efforts have meant that the influx to Europe has been drastically reduced, but Denmark's policy has meant that refugees now also bypass Denmark when choosing a country. We have gone from being when this government came into being, the fifth most attractive asylum country in Europe, to now being the sixteenth most attractive when the number of asylum seekers is compared to the population. It's not a coincidence. It is an expression of a policy that has set a limit. For the last two years, therefore, we have also had the lowest number of asylums we have seen for a decade. We also want new borders when it comes to how long you have to stay in Denmark. Children and adults who have a legitimate need for protection must, of course, have shelter in Denmark.Of course, they must, but in our world shelter is temporary, it is not an invitation to move in permanently, and therefore war refugees must return home when conditions allow, back to their country, help build it up. It is therefore also a moral obligation. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have made that principle even clearer and even clearer, so we are now granting residence permits for temporary stay on the basis that temporary means temporary. I know that, as such, it is beyond Denmark's influence, whether wars in the world cease or whether governments are overthrown in the countries where refugees come from. However, it is within our own decision-making area to say that if the conditions for a residence permit are no longer in place, the residence permit must be withdrawn as soon as possible and the person concerned must leave Denmark and return to his country of origin. On the other hand, you have to give yours to the community while you're here, that goes without saying. You have to earn your own money, otherwise others have to do it for you, and people who have a permanent stay in Denmark must of course be properly integrated, have education, work, take responsibility for themselves and theirs, contribute to the community, take Denmark to themselves. Fortunately, most people do. It is worth remembering that a lot of people with foreign backgrounds work, pay their taxes, raise their children to responsibility, among other things. To take up an education, that more and more people get an education, get into employment. The proportion of refugees and family members who are in employment after three years in Denmark has increased from one in five to up to half, i.e. almost doubled, in the lifetime of this government. It strengthens integration and cohesion, and it has not happened by itself either. This is due to the fact that the fewer people who arrive meet more consistently, and that we have introduced, together with the social partners, basic integration training in 2016 as a stepping stone to the labour market for many people, which means that we will more easily gain knowledge of Danish, of culture, of our values, of our way of thinking, of the labour market, and that is good. And that's pretty good, no matter where your future lies. One thing is certain, however, about where your future lies, and that is that it is not in a ghetto. We must break down the parallel societies that are helping to divide Denmark, areas where too many people with the same problems clash together, where too few adults get up in the morning and go to work, where women are considered less valuable than men, where young people are not allowed to marry the one they love and where Denmark is not Denmark. Here goes a line, here stops spaciousness, that development must be reversed, and this is about to be the last chance. This is also why the government has taken the initiative for an overall strategy aimed at preventing and breaking down parallel societies. We have succeeded in bringing together a broad majority, and I would like to sign for this, behind significant and targeted initiatives, 20 in total, and we have set the ambitious goal of not having one ghetto left by 2030. Every ghetto has to go. Instead, we need to transform these residential areas into ordinary neighbourhoods, and this requires radical changes in the housing stock, and then we need to have a much more robust management of who is going to live in the exposed residential areas. The children must be at a daycare centre from an early age, and we must strengthen the position of the authorities and, above all, the police in these residential areas, so that it becomes safer for residents to move there. This is common sense for the benefit of all. So we must break down parallel societies, and we must insist that we become part of our community when we have to be here permanently. On the other hand, we should not shut ourselves up about ourselves either. It is neither sensible nor beneficial to close Denmark to people who can and will contribute to our country. Therefore, the government continues to take the view that it must be possible for Danish companies to be able to employ the employees they need, even if they are going some way into the world, provided, of course, that this happens on proper terms and in respect of the Danish model, and that you are here for as long as you have a job. It is therefore sad that a majority outside the government in reality, I think, confuses this debate on value and the need to get control of foreign policy with a brake on the opportunities for Danish companies to fill vacant positions for which we do not have people at home. This has the consequence that companies are missing out on orders and that the Treasury is missing out on revenue. After all, every time we have a foreigner on the amount scheme, he or she contributes an average of more than DKK 300,000. A year to the public purses, i.e. overall, with the figure we now have, 1.5 billion. kr. a year. It is money that we can use directly for better education, working conditions and more and better welfare, and I therefore regret that the majority of the Folketing is leading the line here, because here I think that space and open-mindedness and understanding have cramped conditions. We must recognize Denmark, also in the future, and for me freedom, freeness and community are inextricably linked to the best of Denmark. We must safeguard this by paying tribute to diversity, but also by daring to set limits on spaciousness, and that is why this debate is like most: it is not black and white, and it has to have its nuances, because there has to be a balance between firmness and hardness and closeness. Denmark must be closed to those who cannot and will Denmark, that is the government's line, but on the other hand Denmark must be an open nation that does not turn its back, but faces the rest of the world. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129132622	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments to the Prime Minister. First, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129132625	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I have two questions. The Prime Minister says the number matters. We also believe this in the Danish People's Party, and we fully agree that the number has fallen, and that is good. It is a collaboration between the government and the Danish People's Party that is the basis for this. But the question is: is it the Government's ambition that the number that comes here should be further reduced? That's one thing. The second question is: Does the Prime Minister recognize that there are Danes who feel alien in their own country? And if the Prime Minister recognises this, how will the Prime Minister deal with it forward-lookingly, i.e. the insecurity and the concerns of many Danes, for example in relation to population development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129132706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129132707	Thank you. In relation to the other part, I have to say that this is kind of going to have to be split up. Because in relation to those who come and seek asylum with a third-world background, we have quite rightly had an ambition that that figure should be reduced to zero as far as those who come spontaneously. I mean, to zero. It's not just around the corner. This requires that we equip European cooperation somewhat more than we have already done, but we are closer than we have been before, in terms of the figure that we have now jointly brought down both in 2017 and 2018 to a level that is the lowest in 10 years. It should ideally come down to zero, because access to Denmark should not be the spontaneous way up throughout Europe. It should be on invitation. That is why my ambition is, of course, that, in relation to this area, we could return to a system of 'no', not return because we have never been there, but that we could have a system where those who came and got refugee status in Denmark came because they were quota refugees. It would also make integration and everything else easier. That is why, among other things, we have to look at the situation. in Canada may have a slightly different profile than we have, because you have a geography that, like, secures you against too many spontaneous asylum seekers, and then you have the opportunity to go to the camps and also look at people's integration potential. There is the answer to one question. Now it's blinking red. I think the second question will be repeated and I will answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129132831	Here you go to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129132836	It's hard here in the first round. We have a question each, don't we? And then it's two in the next one? I'm also learning it, and I'm also hit a little on the voice like the Prime Minister, so I hope I can be heard. By the way, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it would be ideal if we could get spontaneous access down to zero. We in the Radical Group also believe that this is the case. We fully agree with that. What I want to ask the Prime Minister has to do with those who are already here with many different backgrounds. For the Prime Minister has talked several times about Denmark, and at least several New Year speeches and opening speeches, which we have praised in the Radical Left, that we are together about Denmark; it is not about skin color, not about religion; it is about choosing Denmark for. I think the Prime Minister said some similar words here in the introduction. On Thursday, however, we dealt with the L 140, Paradigm Change Act, where almost the tweezers take the word integration out of comprehensive legislation. There are 111 legislative changes and even 2 million have been set aside. kr. It is only for the technical change that it is to take the word integration out. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133002	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133003	I think it is very, very well connected and I think it would suit the debate if we had the nuances here. For me, there is a world different from whether one comes to Denmark as an immigrant or because one is individually persecuted, on the basis of a disaster or a war, and actually has to be here with the premise that one needs a temporary helmet until hopefully there is so much order in the country one comes from that one can return home • just as the Danish Jewish refugees went to Sweden during the war and came back afterwards. Then you don't have to integrate. Well, then you shouldn't be assimilated, so you shouldn't be turned into an immigrant. Then you have to be part of the community while you're here. You have to work, you can learn our language, and there is nothing in what we have agreed before Christmas that changes. On the contrary. We are, in fact, sticking to that. But the starting point is that you have to go back home. Then there are people who come here because they have to be here permanently. Some may have married someone from Denmark, i.e. with a different nationality. They're supposed to be here, they're gonna be Danes. They're gonna be immigrants. They end up with passports and voting rights, and they must be integrated. And that's why we need to use the words right. And I don't think there's any contradiction between these two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133116	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133119	Thank you. The Prime Minister mentioned several times in his speech the word liberalism as one of the leading Danish values. I totally agree with the Prime Minister in it. There has just been a paradox recently, I think, when we talk about liberalism. One of the things is that the government would like to signal to the new Danes who will have to respect our freedoms and our equality ideals. And one of the tools you use is to make a legislative act that says that you have to shake hands when you become a Danish citizen, or that you cannot go with burka, or that you have to have your children in a crèche when they are 1 year old, if you live in special areas. It's funny to compromise the free mind in the name of the free mind. Well, that's certainly, if you ask me, my interpretation of it, and that's interesting. So my question to the Prime Minister will be: who is to decide where the limit is, when can we start to take legislative action which will then determine where the limit of liberalism is? If it is the Prime Minister who is in office at all times, is it the Minister for Integration, is it the Danish People's Party, who is in charge? Because if freedoms are not under political ideologies, we are never sure where they are, then they can move freely according to the political majority of the Parliament sitting at any time. So who decides where the limit of our freedom is?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133246	As long as we talk about legislation, I would suggest that at all times it is the Folketing and not just some minister or a particular party, but the Folketing. It is a fundamental and also a Danish value that we profess democracy. So I think it's too simplistic to have this definition of open mind where it's almost such indifference, or that everything is equally valid. That's what makes it difficult. And when we say that freedoms must not be the object of some ideology, I think it is only fair to say that the whole set of individual human rights that has grown up on World War II is also based on a view of life and a view of human beings. That is also why we are actually conducting a fight in parts of the world to get parts of the world to take ownership of the way of thinking individual human rights. So, there are countries out there where there is an ideology or where religion is above secularism or there is another interplay between religion and secularism that makes it crawl in relation to the rights that we regard as universal, individual human rights. That's why it's no use having that romantic outlook that says everything can be equally valid... it's not. The Danish society rests somewhere on a kind of unwritten social contract, which is based on the fact that we as citizens make a declaration to some extent to a set of values that we have together. And it is not just legislative; it has grown up. And if we get a change in our population composition accelerated and too many turn their backs on that set of values, then we get the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133422	Thank you. Let's move on. There are no further brief comments to the Prime Minister right now. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules which we otherwise have too short a comment. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129133441	Thank you for the floor. In 2018, the political value struggle has offered several highlights, but also demonstrated that there are areas where the value struggle will continue. Allow me to highlight a number of this year's highlights from the point of view of the Danish People's Party: the ban on carrying burka and niqab, a necessary law that has already triggered a number of charges and fines. Foreigners, who want to be Danish citizens, must now shake hands with a Danish official, and this is necessary because it emphasises that Danish culture and Danish forms of association are something that one must accept as a matter of course if one wants to be a part of the community. That's perfectly reasonable. As such, legislation should not be necessary in relation to such things, but unfortunately it is, and that is why we legislate. It was a concrete victory and a step in the right direction when the Moroccan Said Mansour was expelled to Morocco and sent home, but it was also an important symbol victory in the fight against the Islamists. Said Mansour was, and still is, a model for many resident Islamists, and his own great example, if you listen to what he says, was Osama bin Laden. That we ban burka and niqab, that we send Said Mansour out of the country, that we say that the country is greeting each other properly by handing, indeed, these are all important signals to the most extreme Islamist groups in the country. And you shouldn't be mistaken that they actually take up a lot. We say to them: you are not welcome, and you will lose the cultural struggle, partly because the Danish People's Party and hopefully others will continue to adopt legislation that targets the most extreme forces in Islam, partly because hopefully we will soon get more repatriations going, and then I believe that in any case because more people with an immigrant background will accept our demands and wish that to become Danish you should also act Danish by among other things. to embrace Danish culture, our values and our traditions and make them its own values and traditions. Fortunately, in relation to Said Mansour and generally in relation to repatriations, we are sending people out on an ongoing basis, and we need more of that. As I said, it is about values, but it is also about economics. An inventory from the Ministry of Finance has previously shown that Denmark can save millions of kroner for every foreigner who goes home. That is why the new paradigm shift, the new return policy adopted under the Finance Act, is a necessary tool and thanks for a good agreement to the government and the Prime Minister! It was also good that the financial agreement triggered a new exit centre on the island of Lindholm. It is a concrete measure that will enable us to get more control of deported and unwanted foreigners until they can be returned. But it is also an important signal in terms of value, because with the decision to send unwanted and criminal foreigners, including foreigners who, for example, have fought for the Islamic State, onto an island, we say once again that we do not bother you. We want to isolate you from the rest of society until the day you can return home. You're not gonna be part of our community. At the risk of being misunderstood, I would say that our community is basically a closed community. It's not open to everyone. It is possible to enter certain conditions, but it requires a valid entry ticket. And if you come in and then break our rules, it's the same thing as saying no to being part of Denmark. We have to be in this house in common to think so. That should be the case, but unfortunately that is far from the case. It was disappointing that other parties voted 'no' and the Social Democrats voted blankly to establish an exit centre on the island of Lindholm. Can you trust the Social Democracy? Is the great Labour Party once again warming up for a new intergovernmental cooperation with the Radicals, where again it will be the Radicals who will be allowed to decide to the great detriment of Denmark? It was also disappointing that the Social Democracy supported the government in signing the UN Migration Pact. I would also like to emphasise, because it is also a question of values for the Danish People's Party, border controls, because we must, of course, look after our borders. It also has a value. In the run-up to the 2015 European Parliament elections, a new government party soon made a mockery of border controls. I think it was the Left who had an ad, where there was a border boom on Frøslev Mose between Denmark and Germany, and the Left asked: Does it even use to have border controls? And now, after all, the same party praises border controls and highlights the results. It has to be said that even the Left can become wiser. It's a slogan you can borrow for the election, if you want. The value struggle is well under way, and it will continue even after a parliamentary election. There is not enough time to go into the many aspects of the cultural and value struggle.Time goes by, so I would like to conclude by stressing that for us in the Danish People's Party, the value struggle is also about Danish independence and the right to determine our own foreign policy. Then there is a proposal for adoption, and it is on behalf of the Danish People's Party. Suggestions for adoption It is the Danish Parliament's view that a restrictive immigration policy is necessary to safeguard Danish values. The Danish Parliament notes that it is important to preserve Danish culture and Danish values as well as to combat the Islamisation of society. The cover-up ban and the work to prevent certain foreign donations of money for religious purposes in Denmark are important parts of the work. Parliament calls for the adoption of a ban on wearing religious headgear in primary schools financed by the public authorities. Parliament also calls on the government to safeguard Danish self-determination and, in addition, to pay particular attention to the possible negative consequences of the decision of the European Court of Justice on the issue of family reunification and Turkish citizens. The Danish Parliament also calls on the government to strengthen the repatriation of refugees in accordance with the 2019 Financial Act and to ensure that an asylum stop is put in place as soon as possible so that asylum seekers are rejected at the Danish borders. • V 60).
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134050	Thank you for that and the proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134059	Thank you. That was quite a text for adoption. Of course, I attached myself to it with the closed community. The rapporteur said: do not misunderstand me. But I guess it can't be misunderstood. I guess a closed community is a closed community. Then I just came to think about how the Danish People's Party keeps boasting that Christianity is culturally important in Denmark and that it is what we are built on. But if there is something that Christianity in no way stands for, then it is a closed community. The classical Christian values are then so open to the outside world that the whole story of the merciful Samaritan, whom we probably all know, the message of neighbourly love. I simply do not understand how the Danish People's Party can attach its policy to Christian values when one so much shuts himself up and speaks directly of a closed community. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134155	It's a good match. If you look at the traditions and festivals that help define Danish society, it is very much tied up at the Christian festivals. I do not think there can be any doubt about that. So it is part of what constitutes the foundation of the Danish community. And if you want to preserve the Danish community, you also have to look at who is coming into Denmark. It is clear that if you have an immigration where people come from countries and cultures that are far away from Danish culture and where there is a fundamentally different view of how a society should be organised, you have to focus on it. If you do not focus on it, you are actually undermining the foundations on which Denmark is based. Because then some people come into Denmark and we have already seen this as having some other perceptions, such as how to view the status and position of women in society. What is the view of child rearing, for example? What is the view of democracy and so on?? That is what makes it necessary to ensure that we also have a closed society in such a way that we have the right and the duty to sort out who is entering Denmark. We simply have to do this. In fact, I believe that if we do not do so, we will not live up to our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134259	Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134301	I just disagree completely. I believe that the way in which the Danish People's Party uses Christianity is more a threat to Christianity than a defence of it. But there we disagree with the whole idea of freedom of thought. But leave it alone. I had the second question. Yes, for me it is also a classic Danish value, if you can call it that, to shake hands with a person you meet or have to greet. But what is not a classic Danish value is that you start to legislate on something by law when you disagree with the opinions. We have always fought positions in Denmark with words. That is what is the strength of Danish democracy: if anyone is doing something that we do not agree with, then we are fighting them with words. We challenge them on words and arguments. We don't legislate on things that we don't agree with. So does the rapporteur not agree with me that it is not very classical Danish to start legislating on such things?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134355	No, I don't agree with that. It's okay to talk about things and argue about things. But I have such a picture of if you go back decades, while the parallel societies and the ghettos were built up at Nørrebro and in Odense and elsewhere in Denmark... that while there were a lot of people talking about it and trying to argue against the Islamist groups and the attitudes they had and spent time on it, they just grew and grew because you didn't deal with the problems, and because you forgot that it's also about who you let into society. Of course you have to argue and so on, it's obvious you have to do that, but there are some people you can't make with reasonable arguments. There are some people, such as Hizb ut-Tahrir or people who choose to dress a niqab and run around like ghosts in public space that you cannot reach with arguments. You cannot reach them with arguments, and at some point you have to ascertain and make up with yourself, if it is satisfactory that then we just accept some people we cannot reach. Or do we want to go further and also use legislation as legislators? There we have reached the end of the Danish People's Party. And then there are some others, the alternative, who keep talking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134502	Okay, thanks for that. Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur at this stage, and then it is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129134520	In his New Year speech, the Prime Minister said, and he repeated it today, that there were 50,000 people with a non-western background in Denmark when the Prime Minister went to high school and that today the number has increased tenfold. On one generation our country has changed, said the Prime Minister, after which he looked into the camera and continued: but we can't roll back time, we have to take it from here, get together and figure it out together. I actually agree with that one hundred percent. The good question is simply: Get together about what? After all, none of us demand that Muslims eat pork or convert to Christianity, but what can we reasonably expect from each other in this country when we now agree that tolerance and indifference are not the same. The other day I wrote in the newspaper Politiken that I was worried when I met a couple of young teenagers with foreign backgrounds who hadn't heard of Kim Larsen's death several days after that happened. I have been criticized for that remark by several people: do you necessarily have to love Kim Larsen to become Danish? some ask. See, the answer is of course no, but I used my experience to describe a more general trend in society that I think should interest us, namely that we share increasingly less in Denmark. We live more and more divided, both socially and ethnically; our children are increasingly going to schools and colleges with each other; we are getting less and less news from the same media; and at the last parliamentary elections we saw the most polarised vote in all the time I can remember. At Nørrebro the Alternative got 18%. of the votes, while the Danish People's Party got 5%. In the Aabenra circle, the Danish People's Party received 32%, while the alternative received 2%. Our residence, educational background, employment and cultural background mean more and more for our political vote, and I would like to be quite honest and say that this actually worries me about the cohesion of Denmark. And I think it has been shameful to see how so many debaters, opinion-formers, journalists and politicians ridicule this challenge for our society. Because it is easy enough if you have your own thing on the dry side, but if you need a welfare state, you should worry about the fact that the community in Denmark has got it harder. If we are to maintain a society in which we redistribute relatively much of society's total income, then citizens need to be in the same boat, having the feeling of it. We must not only be citizens but also citizens. So our community must not only be legal, but also culturally founded. There has to be something that binds the young academic from Vesterbro together with an industrial worker from Aabenraa, something that binds the teenage boys with foreign backgrounds I met, along with a retired fisherman's wife in Thisted. Here from Christiansborg we can support it here with a common primary school and with good public service and much other legislation, but the strongest cohesion is created when we voluntarily meet across some of the things we share. I think it's Mozart who said that music is what happens between the tones. A society is what happens between the paragraphs. We cannot legislate that Peter's parents wash their sweaters for the boys' football team before the next match, nor can we decide that Mohammed's mother is involved in planning the Lucia procession in kindergarten. Nor can we demand that every citizen should know about Kim Larsen's death, but we should be concerned when it moves in the opposite direction. I would like to maintain that point of view. It is against this background that we, the Social Democrats, chose to follow up the Prime Minister's New Year speech by formulating four concrete expectations we should have for each other. Firstly, we must all make every effort to speak Danish. It is a great strength for Denmark that so many fellow citizens speak Polish and Arabic and English and Turkish and everything else, but it is a weakness if they do not also acquire Danish. Without a common language it will be very close to impossible to maintain this cohesion. Secondly, people have to support themselves. We are proud of a social safety net, but public support should be the exception in the case of sickness and unemployment; it should not be the rule as seen in some groups. Thirdly, people must not only accept democracy as the country's rulership, but also recognise that the values of democracy become the basis of their own lives. It may be or may feel like a great abuse if you have grown up with religious rules, but here we have to hold onto the right of women to earn their own money, the right of young people to choose their own spouse and the right of the media and artists to criticise power and religion. Finally, fourthly, we need to live more together. It may be comfortable, but it is not very beneficial when people crawl together in certain residential areas and thus send the children in the same schools. I regularly hear people call integration a failure. Actually, I don't see it that way myself. The glass is half full and much works quite well. We can manage immigration while maintaining our welfare societies, but this requires control of the influx and that we become more precise and concrete in our expectations of each other. If the Social Democratic Party is again allowed to form a government, we will strengthen integration on the basis of the four expectations that I have outlined briefly and in those words I look forward to a good debate. Then I have a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament supports an active integration policy that strengthens the cohesion of society. The Folketing therefore wants to pursue a policy that ensures that immigrants acquire the Danish language and get to work as soon as possible. In addition, the Folketing wants to combat tendencies towards parallel societies and social control, which restricts the freedoms of some population groups. V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135100	There will be a more readable and cleaner proposal shortly, and it will be part of the further debate. Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135112	Thank you. I'm sorry to tell Mr. Simpson. Mattias Tesfaye, but as far as I am concerned, there is now too much ambiguity in social democracy's foreign policy. There's just one family in Soulsmark going out. Then there's something about an island that was just right, but it just shouldn't be Lindholm, or maybe it should be anyway. In fact, it became rather unclear gradually. Then there is something about the Radical Left's immigration policy, and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye said that maybe it wasn't quite wrong anyway, what the Radicals thought it might not be quite on the moon. And then there's mr. Mattias Tesfaye's own little Hassan, the question of integration, where Mr. Mattias Tesfaye has said that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye wants the amount of availability for foreigners living in Denmark to be increased. Last time the Social Democracy tried it, it resulted in thousands of more asylum seekers heading towards Denmark. How's sir? Mattias Tesfaye is going to make sure it doesn't happen again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135215	Thank you for the question, which also follows on from a comment made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Martin Henriksen, who asked whether one could be sure that the Social Democracy did not go into government with the Radicals again and allowed the Radical Left to dictate the policy of foreigners in Denmark. And for that I can say, yes, you can be 100% sure of that. We are going to vote to form a purely social democratic government, not only because of foreign policy, but because one of the reasons why we have taken the decision that we do not want to form a government with the Radical Left is that there is too much in foreign policy between the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party. On the specific issue of the integration service, we believe that it is not beneficial for Danish society or for integration that it has now been changed four times since the last parliamentary elections. We believe that there is a need for stability and tranquillity about the service and that it should be created by a broad majority in the Folketing. The service must take into account many things, including that it should not in itself be at a level where it is very different from the service in our neighbouring countries, which makes people look to Denmark for asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135330	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135331	Summa summarum, I'd like to say to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: Social Democracy and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is in favour of these people being given a higher amount of money. I think, sir. Mattia's Tesfaye is screaming about some things here. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye and I are pretty much in the same place, and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is very concerned about running around Brøndby Beach and pretending that something is going to happen to the people affected by the cash aid ceiling and the integration benefit out there. Is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye agrees with what the Danish People's Party has proposed, namely that if you have to change it will only concern Danes, so that it will not be the case that people who come to this country will be given a higher amount of money than what has now been agreed in the Danish Parliament if the Social Democracy comes to power?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135418	It will not be the case with our services that it only concerns Danes, but we now have a residence requirement for integration benefits, and I think that is a sensible arrangement. But we have said that the current level of integration benefit seems to us to be too scraped for the families of children, and that is why it is no wonder Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that we, when the government and the Danish People's Party now want to put it down by 2,000 DKK. a month, so are opponents of it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135452	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135454	Thank you. One is what you stand here in the Folketing and say as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, but another is how it really is happening in the municipalities. There are a great many municipalities where the mayor is a social democrat and where year after year has been allowed to stand. For example: In Odense, where Vollsmose is located, there was last year, I think it was, a meeting which was first gender-separated, and secondly it appeared that more than 19 of those present could not speak a word Danish and were on cash benefits. So a Social Democratic mayor has been in office there for years. Does the Social Democrats even have a backdrop with them, in the event of a parliamentary election being won, and if so, what are they going to do about the mayors out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135539	Yes, our policy on legislation is, of course, determined by our parliamentary group here. But it is true that both in a large number of municipalities with social democratic mayors and in other municipalities, I would say, with conservative mayors or mayors of the Left, there is and has been a growing challenge with parallel societies and social and cultural problems. I think we should be careful to take out the individual mayor or the individual municipal council and say that they have then failed and failed. My own conclusion is that integration costs more money, it takes longer, it leads to more cultural clashes than we had imagined, and whether it was myself or Mrs Pernille Bendixen who had been sitting in the mayor's chair, I think we had had major challenges with integration in Denmark. That is also one of the reasons why it is important to keep the influx down, because if there are more people here than we can integrate, the integration debt piles up, and that is what I think we are seeing now: that interest is running on in many of these residential areas, because we have simply solved many integration problems, but have created more for ourselves than we have solved, by letting too many people in without being able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135640	Mrs. Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party... No. I'm sorry! Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135651	Thank you. I do not think we should be afraid to tackle the individual municipal council or the individual mayor, because that is a very specific problem, for example. in Vollsmose or Gellerup, and you have to face that, and there you have to have a talk about it. In parallel with the government's ghetto plan, a local ghetto plan has been adopted and there is not a single word in the ghetto plan about culture. There is nothing at all about the fact that cultural problems are at stake. The only thing that is focused on is social overall plans and physical overall plans, and that is something that has been going on over the last 30 years and that has not worked. Is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye doesn't agree with me that you have to get to grips with the individual in order to get this right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135737	I fully agree that practical and concrete action must be taken. Now I grew up in Aarhus and remember the Gellerup Park from the beginning and mid-nineties and also what happened to the residential area. And when I read today the plan they have made and adopted by a very large majority in Aarhus City Council, I can also see that they are tackling a completely different and drastic way than has been done in the past. It is no longer just a matter of making some common food evenings and making a street basketball court, that is, that housing blocks are being overturned, and there is a huge investment in the residential area that one should have made for many, many years ago, but which will also change the composition of the resident, and thus you will also be addressing the cultural separation from Aarhus city, which I think has been a problem for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135823	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135825	There were many of the things the rapporteur said in his speech that we in the Danish People's Party can easily sign, that is, that we have a community in Denmark which is far beyond the legal, we have a community of values. What I lacked in the rapporteur's speech was to put into words what an anti-freedom ideology is that today threatens the community of values, the community of freedom that we have in Denmark. The second thing I lacked was some concrete steps to prevent the anti-freedom ideology from developing in Denmark and dividing our community or turning our community into a community where there is no freedom. We are very, very concerned about this in the Danish People's Party. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to put these two things into words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129135922	Thank you for the question. First of all, what really threatens the liberal freedoms of our open, democratic society? What are these anti-democratic attitudes that unfortunately are gaining ground in some environments? I do not think there can be any doubt about that at all. Those are opinions. After all, it is people who justify their anti-democratic views with theological arguments referring to Islam. For social democracy, it is important that we are not at war with Islam. We're in a fight because we can't end up in a religious war here. If there are any reasons why young people cannot choose their own spouse by referring to the Koran, then I think it is important that we justify the fact that young people can choose their own spouse by referring to Danish legislation. We must insist on a secular political debate, which means that when people bring religious and theological arguments into the political debate, we must refuse to recognise it. We do not have imams to interpret what freedoms people have. We have legislation and, ultimately, courts that interpret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140028	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140030	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Socialist rapporteur will say that it is, of course, the Islamic ideology that threatens freedom in Denmark at the moment. We in the Danish People's Party dare to do so, and we have concrete proposals on how to limit advertising for the Islamic ideology, for example. by saying that you should not use the Islamic scarf, when teaching at the Danish primary school or at high school, or when you are a judge or a nurse or in other ways part of the public sector, because then you are an ad pillar of an anti-freedom ideology that threatens our community. Does the Social Democrat rapporteur not agree with me that it is wrong to allow people working in the public sector in Denmark, who are based on traditions of freedom, to walk around as pillars of an anti-freedom ideology?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140131	Thank you for the question. So again: I think it is important that we do not make Islam or the Koran our enemy. I don't see it that way. It is democracy that is our friend. And if we look at it that way, I do not think that the scarf in itself is an anti-democratic expression. Actually, I don't think so. I think the burka is because it de-individualises women in public spaces. Appreciating people as individuals is absolutely fundamental to a liberal view of what democracy is. But I do not think that a scarf is an anti-democratic expression, and that is why I see no reason to restrict the possibility of wearing a scarf in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140214	Mrs. Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140216	Thank you. I was struck by the fact that the rapporteur was talking about calming in order to ensure good integration. When I look at the Danish society today, there are parallel societies, there are ghettos more and more places, it shoots up with mosques and minarets, two out of three pairs, who are on cash aid, have non-western background. What is the rapporteur's position? All of this is something that has been built up through the time when, among other things, Social democracy has had the power of government. How does the rapporteur feel about this and how does the rapporteur envisage better integration in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140302	Yeah, how's it going? My opinion is that the glass is half full. I have an optimistic approach to the future of our society. I do not believe that we are on the verge of civil war, as can be read in novels published all over Europe, which are purely dystopian ideas of what is going to happen. Actually, I don't think that's gonna happen. We can handle this. It takes two things. Paragraph 1, that we keep the influx down so that we do not create too many new challenges for us. Paragraph 2, that we have a slightly more cash approach to integration. That is why we have supported around, for example. new requirements for spouse reunification, because we believe that it is reasonable to impose greater self-reliance requirements, greater Danish requirements. That is why we have supported the efforts against parallel societies, which I know give a little debate around, but I think we have to acknowledge that the scratching of the surface in some of these residential areas is not going to solve anything at all. There's something completely different and much more cash to do. We have supported these things, because if we manage integration while reducing influx, we well believe that the welfare state, with all its solidarity, can live together with controlled immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140416	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140424	Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur is prepared to go further. We can agree a long way along the way that we need stricter rules and higher requirements for immigrants in order to become part of Danish society, but are you also willing to go where we say: If you do not meet the demands we make, is it not here that you should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140453	Yes, and we have also, I would say, for many years now backed up the fact that the penal code must be designed in a way and the alien law must be designed in a way that loses your residence permit if you commit serious crime. We fully support that. The challenge is, of course, whether we can actually ensure that people are returned. It'll be harder soon. I would also like to say that I believe that one of the greatest challenges of foreign policy in the years to come will be to ensure a return policy which means that people who have had their residence permit withdrawn will in fact also be repatriated. It will require a fairly firm hand on the steering wheel if it is to be ensured that there are no slings in the roller, because the thing about getting people out to the airport and having them flown home to their homeland is something that we in the Folketing must help each other with, that is, that there will be broad support for it, otherwise all this can just end up being speechless.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140553	Sir. Jeppe Jacobsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140555	Thank you. I understand from the Social Democrats that you want to make your own government, which then has to be based on a basis, among other things. The Radical Left. And I can understand from the rapporteur himself, on the basis of the statements made by the rapporteur in the media, that it is believed to be possible to cooperate with the Radical Left. Could the rapporteur not inform the Danish Parliament, and perhaps the Danes in particular, who are listening, of what is expected to be able to cooperate with the Radical Left in the field of foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140626-2	Thank you for the question. We have no ambition for foreign policy to be pursued with the Radical Left. We have ambitions for foreign policy to be brought into the middle of Danish politics and for the three major parties that are in the Folketing and have the broadest support from the Danes. The Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left find each other both on the Aliens Act and on the Integration Act. But it is true that we are not going to say in advance that a future social democratic government will under no circumstances receive the support of any of the parties of the Folketing. That is also the case with the current government, such as the United Kingdom. agrees with the Radical Left when it comes to getting foreign labour to the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140714	Sir. Jeppe Jacobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140717	You can have ambition for many things. I have a standing ambition to lose a little weight, and sometimes it goes well, sometimes it doesn't work out very well. But then, in relation to some of these individual examples, where you can't just guarantee the Danes that you won't let the Radicals into the heat: couldn't we get a little cleverer on what kind of small corners it is where you think that the Radicals can influence foreign policy here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140743	I think it's gonna be a little bit thought out. In other words, we do not have any concrete proposals to make foreign policy with the Radical Left. On the contrary, since the Constitution Day we have been announcing that we wanted to go to government alone, without the Radical Left spending some time emphasising why. It acts among other things. There are some disagreements about economic policy, but it is also about some disagreements about foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140812	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140813	Thank you. I find it a little difficult to be wise about the position of the Social Democrats in relation to the Radicals, because one day you open up and the other day you shut down. Then you just have to hope that if the majority changes at some point I hope it doesn't do that it's on a day when the Social Democratic Party has a good day and doesn't want to let the Radicals into the heat. There are some of us who are a little worried. I would like to ask a few questions about some of what Mrs Marie Krarup also mentioned in relation to the Muslim scarf. Is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye agrees that the scarf is used to determine whether a woman is worthy or unworthy? Is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye agrees that the scarf, at least in a number of Muslim environments, is being used to exercise social and religious control over others? And if the rapporteur agrees with that, what does the rapporteur think should be done about it? How does the rapporteur think it should be dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129140913	Thank you. Social democracy has only good days, and on the good days the Social Democrats say that we will not be conducting foreign policy with the Radical Left if we come into government, no matter what different journalists get angry out of a context and placed on the front page of a newspaper. In fact, I would like to emphasise that. I myself am one of those who, for a number of years, have been trying to argue that the influx that has been to Denmark for a few decades has been too great and that it is necessary to have a reasonably firm hand on the steering wheel to ensure that the Aliens Act does not leave. This means that there should not be too many residence permits, either in the case of asylum or in the case of family reunification. On the second issue of scarves, I would say that yes, I fully recognise that scarves are part of what is in the toolbox in those families and the environments where there is too much social control. I would also like to insist that social control should be combated, even as stated in our proposal for adoption. I am just not sure that we are getting closer by banning scarves in the Danish primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141015	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141017	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye says that social democracy only has good days. Well, no one only has good days, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, so we already know that this is simply not right. I don't know any people who only have good days, always, all day, all year round, so it's just not true. So I just think people should take note of that. If it is that the Social Democrats do not want, for example. to ban the Muslim scarf in primary schools, etc., but recognise that it can be used to exercise social control, and it is being used for that, how will the Social Democracy deal with it? Should there then be some extra education in primary school, or what should there be? Because it's being used. And there can be no doubt that if you say, for example, that in primary school you must not wear religious headgear, then there will be a free space for those who are exposed to the social control that the scarf is being used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141112	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141114	Yeah, if it turns into a free space. It may also mean that there will only be more children coming to Muslim free schools, and then I think we have come a step back and not a step forward with integration work. However, I would like to stress that the scarf is not only an expression of social control for all girls, but it is a tool in the toolbox in some families and in some environments, and that is why I think it is appropriate to discuss what can be done to prevent social control, and that discussion is very much part of the debate. We just do not want to support a general ban on scarves in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141152	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141156	Thank you. I'm so curious about this, about the fact that we're about to have a parliamentary election. Let's say it happened. I hope it didn't happen that the left could collect a majority after such an election. Then Mrs. Mette Frederiksen sits there and has to find out how this is going to work out, and then Mr. Uffe Elbæk and Mrs Pernille Skipper and on a bad day for the Social Democratic Party come Mr. Morten Østergaard may also say: Well Mrs Mette Frederiksen, you can become Prime Minister, it just requires the following concessions in the field of foreigners. And then they come up with a lot of suggestions about what to roll back. What, then, is the Socialist report on it? Is it that we want to enter into a dialogue with the left to roll back austerity in the field of foreigners, or are we going to meet with a clear reaction and say that this is not going to be discussed here and that the immigration policy is going to stand firm? What's the report?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141245	Our starting point is, of course, that it is the majority of the Folketing that determines what should be the content of the Aliens Act. It is not the minorities of the Folketing who decide what to say in the Aliens Act. That is what my President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, calls the logic of the mandates, and we will stick to that very hard. But I can certainly look at our neighbouring country, which spends a little more time than usual forming a government, that not only the immigration issue but also the immigration issue has helped to drag things out, and one might expect that to happen in Denmark as well. I am chosen in the West, where I can just open the window and see what the challenges are if we don't sort this out. So it is going to be with a fairly firm hand on the steering wheel that a future formation of government is going to happen. Because we do not want to help the immigration policy get out of control.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141346	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141348	I have to challenge it with this pretty firm hand on the wheel. Because what's a pretty firm hand on the wheel? The fact is that, before the 2011 elections, the Social Democratic report was that the immigration policy was as it was, and afterwards a radical leader could be seen going out and boasting a series of relaxations that had been implemented in foreign policy together with the Social Democracy. For this pretty firm hand on the wheel failed. I think it is quite essential that the Danes know what they have to count on for a parliamentary election. Well, how tight is this hand on the wheel when it comes to resisting the pressure of the extreme left? Is that a no, or is it just such a pretty firm Helle Thorning-Schmidt hand? I'd be worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141434	It is a rather firm Mrs Mette Frederiksen's hand, which has also presented an alien issue which I think describes very clearly and precisely what is our policy. So just to write history: it was, in fact, while we had government power and Mrs. Mette Frederiksen was Minister of Justice that this new provision was introduced into the Aliens Act, which allows residence permits to be granted on a temporary basis. After all, this is the provision on which the present government is working and which forms the whole basis for the paradigm shift that we discussed here in the Parliamentary Chamber last week. So I think that's part of the story, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141513	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129141529	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate. These are important issues that we are going to debate today • the Danish values. With such a whole working life in the high school movement it is always nice to be able to be moved back into such a talk about the Danish, Grundtvigian educational project and all that we have thus rounded up. You stand like this at the end of the estuary and pick up a cup of water to find out what the Danish is, what we drink, where the different things come from. And there are many sources there. We live with them, our values, every day, and we are rounded by them to such an extent that it can be difficult to look at ourselves and your country without thinking about them. For me there is no doubt: for me, the Danish values are about a community of freedom that is binding; our common history; our geographical connection with these beech-light islands; our Christian cultural heritage; our linguistic community; freedom in thought and speech; freedom to be the one you want; freedom to choose the path you want, as long as that path does not restrict the freedom of others. And that is to be part of a community where you support each other in difficult times and where you know that it is only as far as you fall before someone grabs you, but at the same time we also make demands on each other with the expectation of support for that community, otherwise it is not connected and gives the cohesion that must be present before the Danish project can be done. Of course, these values are constantly evolving, and they have always been. So is the rest of society. But the basic essence is that there is something that has always been there, is the same, but the expression changes, and that is the way it should be, because otherwise we would be unhelpfully stuck in a rest stop somewhere in history. We've come a long way. You just have to take a walk through the Walking Hall and see our constitutions to see how we've all changed in this area. Values are transferred from parent to child, from primary school teacher to pupil, from person to person, in sports clubs, throughout civil society. This also means that when a large number of people come to Denmark with a different culture and background, Denmark and the Danish values will be put under a kind of pressure, challenge. We tell people who come here to respect our values, and we have had to strive to stress what we mean by it, because the pressure has been too great, and because there has been a notion that you can just live in a parallel reality to what is the Danish reality. We tell them that here both women and men have the right to live the life they want, and that we have the right to think and express what we want, and that here we support the society that we have built together The vast majority of people take to heart the values that I am delighted with, of course. But there are some out there who want to break down our values, break down what is the cohesion of our binding community and the freedom that we all enjoy. To them, I can only say that it is my sincere view that together we should terminate our community. In the Left we are concerned with safeguarding the Danish values. We are concerned to look after Denmark, and that is what can be seen in the policy followed. We are behind an ambitious plan: how do we get to a Denmark where you no longer have parallel societies? We are pursuing a strict immigration policy which makes it less attractive to look towards Denmark, and we dare to make demands on those who come here. Most recently, we have reached a political agreement on temporary nature, in which we make it clear to refugees that when there is peace, they must return and help rebuild their country of origin. Then we can help somebody else. We are doing all this because we believe that it is necessary. When we cherish the values, we protect Denmark. And if the Grundtvigian educational project was valid in the 1800s, look out at Denmark today and see that it is still gone. We owe each other all the time to talk about what it means to be rounded by the Danish, to want the Danish and to want Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142005	Thank you. There are a few questions. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142008	Thank you. There were also a great many things in this speech that I could easily agree with, but I lacked the decisive • what we in the Danish People's Party believe is the greatest threat to Danish freedom today, namely Islamisation. That's what's challenging us. In the past, it was communism. During the Cold War we had to have a very strong defence and be part of NATO, and there was much discussion about how to avoid indoctrination in school, and when you talked about it, Communist indoctrination was meant. Today, we have a tight immigration policy fortunately. This is something we agree with the government on, although we in the Danish People's Party think that we could go further, and hopefully we should do so at some point. However, in my opinion, we do not have a strong enough defence against the Islamisation that sneaks into our public institutions, among other things. We know, as the previous rapporteur has just said, that one can be allowed to be a walking pillar of advertising for Islam when one teaches at the Danish primary school, which is based on values of freedom, such as freedom. comes from Christianity. I do not think that in the 1970s Denmark could have been allowed to teach wrapped in a red flag with hammer and seal on it, I think you had a remark for that. What will the rapporteur do about the threat posed by Islamisation in the Danish institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142146	I sense a little that what Mrs Marie Krarup is talking about here is a little the same as in the question put to Mattias Tesfaye about the importance of the scarf for social control of Muslim girls in particular, and we know that this is a very great challenge that we must address. After all, we have already gone so far that we have said that the social control that lies in having to go with burka and niqab is against us and that it is a zeroing of gender which is contrary to Danish values. So is all other social controls on women, and this is a debate that we must take very seriously. This is something that we must combat by all means. Are we going to ban scarves or are we going to impose more bans on this area? I don't think so. I think we need to fight more against the parallel societies that have this social control and the idea that you can live here in a parallel universe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142259	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142301	Islam is an ideology that people cannot make the laws, that the laws are made in advance. It is anti-democratic and it is problematic in a large number of areas. That is why I regard Islamisation as one of the greatest threats to our freedom today, and that is why we have to somehow limit the Islamic influence in Danish society. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that Islamisation of Danish society is a threat to Danish values and a threat to Danish freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142341	I fully agree that if you read religious rules in such a way that they are above the constitution at home, you are on a collision course with Danish society, and then you will probably never be able to get comfortable here, and I also do not really understand that you have found the need to come here. But I am also sure that the vast majority are able to cultivate the faith they now have, without it being contrary to the Constitution. However, to the extent that this is a problem, this type of Islamisation is, of course, something that we must combat by all means.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142419	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142422	Thank you. I would also like to hear what Mrs Krarup said about whether the rapporteur agrees that Denmark as a country and as a society is gradually becoming more and more Muslim, i.e. that Islam will gradually play a greater and greater role in Danish society. There are, of course, people with a Muslim background who are reasonable people, but it is clear that when the number increases, it also has an impact on how society is organized and on what values and principles govern at least large parts of society. It is therefore relevant to ask whether the Left is concerned that Denmark as a society and nation is becoming more and more Muslim. Does one agree that this is the case, and if so, is this a worrying development? We think so in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142510	Yes, we agree that when there are more people in this country who come from another culture and have Islam with them, the challenges that may be faced by those who have a radical reading of Islam are necessarily increasing. And a large number of the decisions we have made together with the Danish People's Party in this area are just about how we deal with the challenges that come from there. That's why we've made packages about parallel societies. That's why we've been looking at, among other things. Masking ban. And that is why we have been so careful to see that the influx to Denmark becomes as low as possible, because this issue is something that is not just about culture but also about numbers. And to the extent that there is a problem, we multiply it when the number is large.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142610	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party? No, it's sir. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142613	Thank you. Following on from that, I would like to ask a question. The Prime Minister said, when the Prime Minister spoke, that the number of asylum seekers would like to go down to zero, that is to say as close to zero as possible. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Mads Fuglede, whether the Left can support the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption, which suggests that the number of asylum seekers comes very close to zero, all the time that we are proposing to reject them on the border. That is a very effective way of getting the figure down to zero, at least very close to zero. So now that the Prime Minister has said that it is an ambition that it should be as close to zero as possible, it is probably right for the Left to support the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142700	The Left supports the efforts being made within the framework of the European Union to ensure that this is dealt with in an EU context. So we hope that when we look into it in a few years' time, when you apply for asylum in Denmark, you will do so from a camp outside Europe. And then I do not think there will be any need for the resolution of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142728	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142731	Thank you. If you really want to combat parallel societies, you have to tackle the root of the nettle. And the root of the nettle is culture. It is simply the division that is, in right and wrong, i.e. halal and haram. And that is where we have to tackle the essentials, i.e. halal food, scarf and segregation, and then ban it. The Left is not willing to do so, and I simply do not understand it. For the Left itself says that one is interested in combating parallel societies and that one is well aware of where the shoe is pressing. Yet one is not willing to take the decisive step. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142810	After all, we must safeguard the values of the Constitution. One of them is the right to believe what you want to believe. And when we talk about this having a religion of law to fit into a society where you sometimes bump into that society's other rules, I have always looked a lot to the Jewish minority in Denmark, who also to a certain extent have strict rules in an area without having problems integrating fully into Danish society. If you're going to look at this problem like this, I think we can learn a lot from the way the Jewish minority is in Denmark, without it being a problem for the cohesion of Danish society. Those experiences are some that need to be used more to break the parallel society culture that is at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142905	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142907	Then it is really the Muslims who have to learn something from the Jews, and not us. I would like to hear: what does the rapporteur think about the self-chosen Danish political correctness? So it is we who have to apologize because the Danish song is a young blonde girl; that it is ourselves who chooses to make cultural days instead of the Christmas market at Nørrebro? And then we have a concern about our national law, because it is made up of pork, and could it not be made up of kebab food, because then no Muslims are offended? These are simply thoughts that have been thought about without there actually having been a problem. In other words, we are making an advance on some problems that are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129142947-2	Well, I don't think there's any difference in our perception of this area. I think that when you come to a country, you have to integrate into that country. You should not sit down and wait for the country to integrate towards yourself. So I don't think we disagree there, and here's the Danish song, a young blonde girl. It has been for a long time, and as a dark hair, I have never had a problem with that. I've just been singing that out for many years on all the occasions I've had the opportunity to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143024	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143025	Thank you. I noted that in his speech the rapporteur of the Left attached great importance to the fact that he has been rounded up by the High School movement and that it meant a great deal to him in this debate. I am, too, so we may have a common reference here that we can discuss on the basis of. Is it not true that some of what is characteristic of the high school movement is the lack of fanaticism? It is a form of tolerance and understanding that there is no unambiguous truth about anything. That is why I also understand that the rapporteur from the Left strongly rejects Islamism, which is precisely the opposite of what he stands for, but would he not agree that when you listen to the Danish People's Party, there is a fanaticism, a lack of tolerance, a way of discussing which is completely contrary to what the rapporteur's basis should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143129	No, I don't agree with that. I see the Danish People's Party and the members I have met from the Danish People's Party as some country-specific people who to a large extent fit well into the Grundtvigian educational project. I still remember the years when at Grundtvig's Højskole I always offered Mr. Christian Langballe's father, Jesper Langballe, welcome up there to very, very bold debates where it was certainly not fanaticism that marked the exchange of views. The Grundtvigian project and what the high school is built on is that you say things as they are, that you do not wrap them in, and that you understand that in space both Loki and Thor must speak, and that there must be the honesty to discuss what the Danish is. And if you suddenly want to start judging someone outside, here the members of the Danish People's Party, as someone who should not be part of that conversation, then you do violence against the spirit of the whole high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143228	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143229	Well, that's not what I'm saying. I fully agree with that, but it could also be that the Left Party should begin to say it as it is, instead of hiding behind some tactics, because one has to work with the Danish People's Party to say what it is, namely that the fanaticism of the Danish People's Party, the lack of tolerance of the Danish People's Party to minorities here in Denmark, runs counter to what the High School Movement stands for. That doesn't mean you don't have to argue with them. Of course you must, but then there is a duty to oppose them. And wasn't it time that the Left took the Danish People's Party by the wingbone and told them: This is contrary to what we stand for and have stood for?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143316	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143317	Well, we're two different parties, and to the extent that we agree, and we often do in this area, we make legislation together. But there will also be an influx of motions for resolutions by the Danish People's Party which we do not agree with, not because we regard them as fanatical, but because there is a real political disagreement as to whether this is the right way to achieve a goal we often agree on: that we should take good care of Denmark, that the number matters and that Denmark should be a nation where asylum influx is controlled. The area where we often disagree is about what we do with foreign labour, smart hands for our business and smart heads for our universities, and there we often have these debates. But that doesn't mean we're screaming at each other or calling someone fanatical. We just disagree there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143403	Then it's Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143406	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur something, namely about halal labelling. For the vast majority of people think that halal is a matter of a slaughter method and that it is something to do with meat. But it turns out that there are more and more foods in Denmark that are labelled with the hallmark, and that means that a tax is being paid to Islamic society. This applies to ice cream, it applies to chocolate, and it applies to cake. And I see this as a very big problem in Denmark. How does the Left feel about possibly imposing a ban on imposing religious taxes on food so that we are free from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143457	Well, I don't have a problem with anything being halal. But I have noticed that there is also a debate out there about what these taxes are then used for and what purpose that money is being channelled to. And to the extent that there is a problem there, we have a real problem that we must, of course, deal with. I just have no knowledge of it, and I simply do not know enough to be able to decide how big the problem is here. But from the outset, I believe that if you want to eat something that is halal, then you should have the opportunity to find something that is halal. If, then, there are consequences of what may be problematic, we must look together at what kind of problem this is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143547	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143549	I can respect the view that if you want to eat halal, you have to be allowed to eat halal. But should I not, as a Dane and as a Christian, be allowed to opt out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143603	But as I see it, it is possible to choose for yourself in a supermarket what you want to eat. And then you can choose halal from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143614	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143617	Thank you. I could understand from the rapporteur's refusal to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption that instead of waiting for the EU to resolve the problem of the many refugees coming to Denmark. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: how long is the left's patience with the EU system? You haven't achieved your goal yet. You haven't solved the problem yet. How long do the Danes have to wait for the EU system before the Left comes to the conclusion that it is probably easier to do, as the Danish People's Party says, namely to reject asylum seekers at the border, as there is nothing to escape from in Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143653	We're walking a little bit on two legs in this area. We are doing something national, but we are also working on a solution that is beyond the national border because we know that the problem is best solved out there and as long as we cannot get an agreement there that finally solves the problem, there is a need for a lot of national legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143714	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143715	But my question was: how long is the EU system going to be given to solve this problem? Is it 1⁄2 years, is it 1 year, is it 5 years, is it 25 years? How long can this matter be poured out in the European Union before it is said in the Left: we are now saying stop, now we are closing the border to the south with regard to taking in asylum seekers, since no one is fleeing Germany because it is quite peaceful to be in Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143746	After all, we have made national legislation, and that is why we must continue to wait for the other thing to be done. We hope, of course, that it will be quick rather than slow to reach agreement within the European Union on this, but as I am sure the questioner also knows, many of the crucial parameters in this area of the European Union are still in dispute, and therefore national legislation is still very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143812	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143814	Thank you. I just want to know if the Left is in favour of multicultural society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143822	I do not know whether we can be in favour of a multicultural society. Denmark is a monoculture, and we must continue to be. But there must be room for other cultures in our society, and they must be here under the conditions that are now the Danish conditions. We are not making any effort to change Denmark decisively. We must, on the other hand, take care of Denmark as the society we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143846	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143847	Allow me to interpret that as a rejection. In any case, it is said that Denmark is a monocultural society. Can I have the rapporteur confirm that? That's one thing. The second point is that I was recently in Germany and I would just like to ask the rapporteur what is so terrible about Germany that people are fleeing from it. What is it that makes us unable to say at our border: Stay where you are; you have come through a lot of safe countries, and Germany is also a lovely country? But what makes it so dangerous to be in Germany that you have to flee into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143919	It is, of course, a polemical question and, of course, I acknowledge that. It can be taken further, because there is something strange about continuing to flee from one safe country to another, and finally saying that you have now ended up in the safe country from which you do not have to flee. That is precisely why we now have the lead in the European Union that the first country to which you come and which is safe is where you have to end your flight.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129143952	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Seligman. Mads Birded, and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144008	Thank you for the floor. Although in the last few weeks it has become more than clear that there are parties in here at Christiansborg who do not want integration at all, who do not want people who have come to this country and where many of them have actually lived here all their lives, to be integrated into society, I would like to make it clear that we want that in the Enhedslisten. We can and must be better at integration in Denmark, both for the sake of citizens who come here, but also for the sake of Danish society. It makes great demands on the individual and great demands of our community, because when we live side by side and have different backgrounds, different stories and different traditions, it creates opportunities, but it also creates challenges. Good integration means that new citizens must learn the language, that they must become part of the labour market and become part of society as active citizens, and that they and their children have to live well as part of our community. For me, good integration is not to generalise or suspect whole communities or whole communities. It is not good integration to isolate people on the basis of their appearance, their choice of dress or their skin color or income, and it is not at all good integration to shoot an entire group of Danes into their shoes that they force another group of Danes to change their way of life. Hopefully, we can agree that as politicians in here at Christiansborg, we have a responsibility to ensure that all Danish citizens are well, whether they are named Anders or Ali or not, in order to sharpen it up. Today, civil society is undertaking a huge task in terms of integration. Good neighborhoods, cohesion at work and joint play agreements between our children are, after all, some of the things that contribute best to integration into our society. The citizens of our society must have a great deal of praise for this, something for which they certainly do not receive enough. After all, we know that it is the meeting of civil society that creates the best integration. Therefore, it may surprise me at least that there are some who will do anything to destroy this meeting. I don't think that's fair. In the Enhedslisten, we are working to strengthen democratic values such as mutual respect, freedom of expression, equality and anti-discrimination. It is both in Denmark, but also globally. And an essential part of integration is to ensure that that freedom applies to all of us, not only to those who are similar to ourselves. Finally, I just want to say: does the number matter? Yeah, it does. It matters how big the task is and therefore we cannot afford to park the task in a single residential area, a single municipality or in individual schools. It is vital for us to see that we carry out the integration task that we have been given. I can just say, in order to anticipate some things, that it may be sensible to go back home if you have fled to Denmark when there is peace where you have fled from. That's just not the reality we're living in. We are living in a reality where there are some people who are fleeing from long-term conflicts, which do not seem to stop tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or next month. I'm afraid we're gonna have to wait a long time. That is where I think, and that is where we believe in the Enhedslisten, that we owe it to the people who have fled here and that we owe it to our society to integrate them so that they have the best opportunities, but so that we also have the best opportunities in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144410	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144413	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund mentioned appearance, skin color and something like that. So I just want to say for the record that it is not the Danish People's Party that speaks of skin colour. In this context, it was the Enhedslisten who did it. I don't know why the left should always mention it. It is such a morbid obsession with skin color as the left wing has. I would like to ask about the fact that Denmark is becoming more and more Muslim. This is a reality. Does Mrs Rosa Lund and Enhedslisten think that Denmark is becoming more and more Muslim? Is this a positive development? Is this a negative development?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144448-2	I'm not quite sure that I agree with Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen's premise that Denmark is becoming more and more Muslim. But there should be no doubt that Enhedslisten is a socialist party, and that is why we think that religion is something a little strange and that it must be a private matter. This is among other things. also why we are in favour of the separation of church and state.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144507	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144508	I fully agree that Enhedslisten tries in every possible way to limit Christianity in Danish society; I understand that. But when it comes to Islam, you're a little more reluctant. Just like some other rules of the game. So I fully agree that Enhedslisten has the policy of limiting the influence of Christianity in Denmark, but when it comes to Islam, one has such a barn-to-policy. For the initiatives taken by the Danish Parliament may be a cover-up ban, it may be other actions that are, of course, about actually limiting the influence in society of the most extreme groups in Islam, Enhedslisten is of course opposed. So it is correctly understood that Enhedslisten thinks that one should limit the influence of Christianity in society, and when it comes to the influence of Islam, is it more okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144555	At any rate, it is true that we in the Enhedslist believe that religion should be restricted. It's a private matter. And I can clear it up to Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen, that we in the Enhedslisten e.g. It seems problematic when free schools, whether Christian or Muslim, use religion so much in their teaching instead of focusing on some of the values that are highest in our democracy, namely freedom of expression and democracy at all. There should be much more focus on this in our education system. After all, the cover ban is about some quite different issues than the Islamisation of Denmark. It's about the fact that sir... Martin Henriksen and his friends would like to decide what clothes women should wear, and that is very unusable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144641	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144643	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that religion must, of course, be a private matter for which we are fighting. And that is exactly what we are facing today, in other words that for many people it cannot be a private and individual matter, and that there is even one ideology or religion or ideology that calls itself a religion that threatens the democratic values that the rapporteur, like myself, is in favour of, namely freedom of expression and freedom of religion. After all, it is Islamisation that is so threatening, for example. Muhammed cartoons or people who want to speak critically about Islam. We have people living under police protection today because they are threatened because they have used the Danish values of freedom to say out loud what they think. The rapporteur did not say in his speech that we have this great challenge from Islamic ideology. Why is that? Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144755	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144756	No, it's probably because I can't see it. I do not believe that we have huge problems with the Islamisation of Denmark. I really do not experience being imposed on Islam, even though I live right next to a mosque in the middle of Nørrebro. So I don't really get to see that. I can hear that Mrs Marie Krarup is very concerned about the scarf, but for me it must be up to women to decide for themselves what clothes they wear, if they want to have 40 grams of cloth on their heads, they must be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144833	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144834	It's this absurd way of trying to relate the meaning of symbols. So, would a Communist flag, a Nazi flag, any political or religious flag, be just 40 grams? It wouldn't be. There is, of course, a symbol in the Islamic scarf, which contains so much that it is not just matter. The rapporteur simply does not believe that there is a threat, for example. against Muhammed signers, against an Islam critic like Lars Hedegaard etc.? Does the rapporteur not think that such threats to individuals who have identified themselves in a debate rub off on others, so that there is some sort of self-censorship, some kind of fear of entering these debates and that this is a threat to Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144923	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144925	Well, I do not see anyone holding back from speaking critically about Islam; on the contrary, it is something that happens quite often in here. I think that some of what is important to think about when we talk about freedom of expression is that it is not a duty that it is not a duty. But I do acknowledge that there are some who are under threat and who are therefore also under PET protection. That is a perfectly well-known fact, which I will not be standing here denying. Everyone knows that Special Branch is spending resources on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144957	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129144959	We politicians are often accused of not speaking nicely to each other. So I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur on this clear rejection of the left-wing division of people by skin colour, which has been going on for far too long. This is what you talk about white and brown Danes, etc. It is simply a disgusting way to define people by their pigmentation. So all the praise from here to take a clear stand against the alternative and the like, which in this way divides people up by skin color, because it just needs to be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145032-2	Well, at least I agree that we should stop dividing people by skin color. But I am not really opposed to the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145043	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145046	I sense that Mrs Rosa Lund is not very much in favour of strict immigration policy. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Rosa Lund where the Swedish immigration policy is in comparison with the Danish one. Is it so much better or just something better? Or is it one of the things that Mrs Mette Frederiksen has to deliver if she is to expect that Enhedslisten's prime minister candidate like to withdraw her candidature from the equation if it should go in a certain way after the election? So perhaps you can give a characterization of how well things are going in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145119	I'm sorry, sir, but I'm afraid I'm gonna have to disappoint you. Peter Kofod and say that I do not know enough about Swedish immigration policy. But I can tell Mr. Peter Kofod, that some of what is important to us in the Enhedslisten is that we continue to comply with the UN Convention on Refugees. This is extremely important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145134	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145136	Then let me follow up. Over the past 10 years Sweden has taken just under 1.5 million people from Africa and the Middle East and such places. It's almost 15 percent. of the population in Sweden today. So let me ask you another way: is this a good scenario? Should Denmark take a correspondingly large proportion of people from Africa and the Middle East, as one has seen Sweden do if it stood at Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145201-2	Well, if it was up to the Enhedslisten, we should take the refugees who are protected by the convention. This also means that we in the Enhedslist believe that we should drop the legislation we now have on temporary residence permits. I'm so sorry, sir. Peter Kofod, if that's not enough answer. I'm gonna have to read up on the Swedish refugee policy for the next time I'm gonna meet Mr. Kim. Peter Kofod down here in the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145223	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145226	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what Mrs Krarup spoke about, namely freedom of expression. Does it not surprise Mrs Rosa Lund a little that precisely those who are critical of Islam are the ones who need protection from PET? We have sir. Naser Khader sitting here; we have Inger Noiseberg; there is Lars Hedegaard; there is Pia Kjærsgaard. Well, it's all people who have been significantly advanced and been markedly critical of Islam. They're exactly the ones who need PET protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145254	Well, it always worries me when someone needs PET protection because they have expressed a certain opinion. I just have to stick to the fact that freedom of expression is a freedom that we have, which is absolutely crucial, but that does not mean that we have a duty to use it if it can offend some others. But yes, it certainly worries me every time someone has to have PET protection because they have used their freedom of expression. It does.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145318	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145321	Does Mrs Lund not think that one has a duty to express oneself if one sees some real problems and some challenges that one would like to bring to other people's attention? And don't we really have a problem when you can't make a drawing in a newspaper without having to have PET's protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145337	Well, I mean, you have a duty to express yourself if you've witnessed something illegal or if you can use it to stop some crime. But when you have a duty to express yourself is a rather strange debate, I think. What is crucial is that we have freedom of expression in Denmark and that we have constitutional rights. One of the things I think is really important is that it is actually all our constitutional rights that we can hold onto. And there I often think I miss the Danish People's Party in defending our constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145411	Then we thank Mrs Rosa Lund and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Lund. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145428	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate. The comments I have on the government's policy of value must be seen as complementary to what has already been said by the Prime Minister and Mr Delors. Mads Birded, and to what Mr. Naser Khader will later say, i.e. not a correction to it or an alternative to it. The 1983 Aliens Act had the consequence that over the following decades a number of very profound social changes took place. These were social changes that were not announced, for example. from the platform where I stand now, and there is nothing to say about that, because the changes were side-effects of decisions that the politicians of that time could not or would not grasp. After all we know about the attitudes of the people back then, there was no real popular support for the very far-reaching decisions taken at the time, and that is not something that in any way makes this whole matter any better. But it also explains one of the basic principles of the policy of the Liberal Alliance on foreigners, namely that we should not have undesirable social changes in Denmark. To the extent that the basic model of society or the main institutions of society need to be changed, it must have a very broad popular legitimacy, just as if, for example, one were to be able to do so. will change the constitution. I should like to make a comment on the side of the matter, which has been triggered by Mr Seligman. Mads Fuglerde's speech as rapporteur. After all, I am very much in agreement with Mr. Mads Fuglede in the examples he listed on Danish values, but I also think it should be added that our very clear Danish institutions, such as for example. The Folketing or the National Church or the Folkeskole are national versions of international currents; they are national versions of liberal democracy, of Protestantism and of enlightenment. So Danish values are Danish institutions, which provide a Danish interpretation of some broader anchored values in Western culture. So back to the main track, which is the question of the undesirable changes in society. In September 2015, it was 10 years since Jyllands-Posten published the famous Mohammed drawings, and on that occasion I said that there was something sad about the fact that it was probably few people who imagined that 10 years further ahead, i.e. by 2025, would be more freedom of expression, more freedom of religion, more freedom of assembly, more freedom for women and more public order than there was in 2015. To date, I have not been contradicted by anyone, at least not with arguments that I consider important. A whole series of rights guaranteed by the Constitution to citizens by the State, and rights which the citizens think of as well-employed, are being undermined in the time in which we live as a result of the slowness of the very headless decision in 1983 to make Denmark an immigration country. We in the Liberal Alliance are, of course, very much opposed to this, and the fight for our liberal democracy, firstly, not to be further undermined and, secondly, to be strengthened where it has been weakened, is a vital part of the basis of value on which the government's policy is based. I would like to conclude by saying that what I have said is not something that adds to or subtracts from what my honourable colleagues from the two other governing parties have said or will say, it is just our contribution to an overall understanding. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145856	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129145910	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. After all, we have had this debate some times in this Chamber, once a year I think it has been, and of course we are happy to take any opportunity to take a value-political debate. At the same time, however, I would like to say at the same time that, in the alternative, we do not share the premise of the question debate we have today, namely that immigration forces Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and to correct them. We do not share that premise. We do not subscribe to it, and for the same reason we have not actually produced a text for adoption either. Denmark is a democracy and our democracy is based on freedom. I think we can all agree on that in this Chamber. This must be the starting point for all the work we do in the Folketing and for what we here in the Folketing believe in. Freedom is the foundation stone of Danish democracy, and we must all respect and take care of our freedom. Then perhaps I think that we have different understandings of how we do it or that we do not agree on what that threat is that exists out there. I think there are more who have stood up here on the platform and said: I'm worried about...; or: We're worried about... one and the other. And we also share a concern on the part of the alternative. We are also concerned about Denmark, but what we are concerned about is the way in which we think we are compromising our freedoms at the moment and that what is about Danish liberalism and freedom is actually seriously under pressure in relation to what we have seen in the past. So we share a concern, yes, but that is probably a different concern than the one that the question is about. Our concern is that we no longer all have the same rights, but that we start to introduce different rights and different laws for different people; that we are not all talked about and to, as if we have the same value as citizens in our society, but that there are some who have to rush back home when they come up here. This is interesting, because sometimes we talk about identity policy in the Folketing, and this question and this question are so much an expression of identity policy on the part of the Danish People's Party. The attempt we are making here to define what is Danish and to want to know and think and have the right opinions about what are Danish values is an excellent example of identity policy. There you can discuss what identity policy is. But typically it is when you go in and look at the partial rather than the universal. And I would like to take this opportunity to say something about this now that we may all have seen Happiness-Per· when it was broadcast on the TV this Christmas, or have seen it at the cinema, and perhaps you have also read the book. I read it again in the autumn in connection with the premiere at the cinema, and at one point Jakobe, whom Lykke-Per falls in love with, says something to him that I think is quite interesting. She says this, and now I quote from Happiness-Per·: How long shall it be yet, how much harm shall we humans still do to one another before it is really understood and made into religion, the only permissible dogma, that it is not on chance, the peculiar, but on the ordinary human within us, that we should build up our own life and that of the nations? Jakob says this because she's Jewish, and Lykke-Per Christian. They have had problems meeting each other because they came from two different religions, but here she goes in and speaks in favour of universalism. That's what Jakobe does in this sentence, and that's what's so interesting in the whole story of Happiness-Per, namely how you can ignore the need for the peculiarity, the need to think that when you're from a religion, you have some preferences that can't be accommodated by the universal. Of course they can, and therefore it must also be my call that we try to believe in the universal and universal rights that we have not only in Denmark but also in the rest of the world: our human rights, our values of freedom, etc. And let us try to work from it instead of having to define what is a right or wrong way to be Danish. I think we should try to look at each other as people first and foremost. Finally, I would like to urge you to read Hans Lassen, if you like. He is a researcher, and he has written a PhD, which appeared last year, and which is called the Experiment, which failed. It is in fact a review of the integration work in Denmark as far back as 1981. And as Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned that back in the 1980s and up to the mid-1990s integration work was a failure. But from the mid-1990s onwards it has actually been a success. His PhD is a great and scientific argument that integration in Denmark has actually gone the right way from the mid-1990s onwards. I would recommend that you read it, because there are many good points in it, in relation to why integration in Denmark is a success, and why we politicians are sometimes simply so focused on the fact that it is a failure that we forget to see all the positive things that are in Danish integration history. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150415	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150420	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier also mentioned in her question to the undersigned when I was up as rapporteur on this matter of Christian values and upholding Christianity. I myself am very much in favour of the message of neighbor love. As far as I am concerned, if you are in a specific situation where there is someone, let's say in front of you who needs help, then of course you are morally committed to helping it is clear. But to spread it out to say that the whole world must then come to Denmark is perhaps just to tighten it a little bit. I do not know whether the rapporteur can follow my lead. But I understand that the alternative, or at least parts of the alternative, would like to safeguard Christianity and Christian values in Denmark. But how can you do that? And how can one ensure that Christianity is strong in the long term, including in Denmark, if at the same time one accepts that society is becoming more and more Muslim because of immigration? What does that mean? After all, the alternative must also be able to see that it is not entirely related.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150526	Let me just start by saying that nobody says that the whole world must come to Denmark. Well, it is a strawman that there should be any political parties in the Folketing who think so to make it clear. In relation to the other, we have to trust our cultural history and our Christian history, and we have to trust that it can carry us through whatever we meet. So it has been doing so for hundreds of years in Denmark, and it probably is in this time when we have opened up a more globalised world, and when people come to Denmark who believe in something else. Is this a threat to Christianity and Christian values? I don't see it is. I see that the threat to Christianity is that we abuse it to tell others not to come in because they threaten our Christian values. Christianity is an open religion and welcomes the stranger. That is precisely what is at the heart of my understanding of Christianity, so I do not see that it is threatened. I trust that we can easily preserve what is our Danish set of values and liberalism and what I know, including the religion I believe in. I'm not afraid of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150621	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150622	I'm not afraid of other cultures either. I just prefer that, as a starting point, they are out in the big world. That's why you can really enjoy them when you're out there, and hopefully other people can enjoy the Danish culture when they get here. It is also part of the joy of traveling, and I understand that in the alternative you are a big fan of travelling to different destinations. But it doesn't quite add up. So, if the alternative holds the view that it is important to safeguard Christian values and the role of Christianity in Danish society, then we must do something to safeguard it. We're the only ones who live here to protect our own culture and our own festivals. It's just us, because no one else wants to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150707	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150708	Of course, we must safeguard our cultural history, but the way we safeguard it is by safeguarding our freeness of speech. That is what I have tried to speak for both in my question here up to and now in my rapporteur's speech from up here. If there is anything special about Danish cultural history, it is our liberalism, and that is what we must safeguard. That is exactly what we are fighting against attitudes with words. When someone comes here or we go out into the world, for that matter, and meets something that is foreign, that offends us, that violates our values, we fight it by words. That's how we cherish it. The moment we start to legislate on things that we do not agree with, we sit back and think that then we don't have to do anything else and then we become dull and lazy and lose our sense of criticism. And it's dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150748	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150752	I always think, when I hear the rapporteur of the alternative, that the members of the alternative, or at least the parliamentary group, are living in an alternative reality which for the rest of us is very, very difficult to understand. But here a bit of the veil may be lifted, so it's a little easier to understand what the alternative reality of the alternative is. It sounds to me as if the alternative rapporteur here thinks that all cultures in the essence are the same and that all religions in the essence are the same. So I would just like to ask to clarify the alternative reality here: 1) Does the Alternative's rapporteur think that Danish culture is a partial culture that is different from others? 2) Does the Alternative's rapporteur believe that mainstream Islam can include individual freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and gender equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150847	To the first question, whether Danish culture is a partial culture, I can answer: Some of it is, but we do not have partial values in Denmark. We talk about Danish values so often. Yes, we have values we subscribe to, but they are not necessarily Danish. Our open mind is a value that we subscribe to, but it also exists in other countries. So I don't really believe in that particular thing with Danish values. I believe that there is something that we have taken in culturally, and that is fine, and we must continue to do so. But it is not in its essence a Danish phenomenon. In relation to the second question, whether Islam can contain the things that the rapporteur mentioned, I would like to answer: I believe that, without being an Islamist in any way, a modern, moderate interpretation of Islam can, but I also fully agree that there are interpretations of Islam that will not be able to contain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150938	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129150939	So now I asked if the Danish culture is partial, and it is. We cannot talk that away, even though we have of course absorbed a lot of currents from outside. Then you can discuss whether they are universal or what they are, but of course the Danish culture is then partial, and it is only us Danes who can defend it. And of course the values we therefore have are also partial in the design that we have them in Denmark. As far as the rest of Islam is concerned, it is a dream Islam, an alternative Islam that the rapporteur is talking about, and I would really like Muslims in Denmark to invent it, namely an Islam that can contain all these wonderful things. But that's just not the reality we're in. So will the alternative not return to an entirely normal non-alternative reality so that we can communicate?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151027	Thank you! Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151030	I don't know who it is to return to a reality that exists out there. That was one of the things I referred to in relation to the PhD I mentioned earlier. It is actually trying to outline what success we have had in terms of integration. That's the reality out there. Then we have in here a lot of tendencies to inflate it as if it were so terrible, and it goes so wrong while the figures show absolutely the opposite. It is therefore highly provocative that we do not listen to professionalism when professionalism and scientific evidence show us that things are actually moving forward. And I know so many Muslims in Denmark who live so much in accordance with all the Danish rights, freedoms, equality etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151108	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151111	Thank you. There was one point in the rapporteur's speech, I really pointed my ears, and that was when the rapporteur mentioned one of my favourite books, namely happiness, and quoted Jakobe, Per's fiancee. And as the rapporteur of the alternative quoted, I formed a very precise picture in my head of what we are talking about. Perhaps I understand more what the alternative rapporteur actually thinks, because we have a common cultural reference framework here in the form of the same literary work. That's probably my argument. If we are a homogeneous population, we get a lot of culture passed on from our parents all by ourselves, without us noticing it, but the more multicultural, multiethnic Danish society becomes, the more important it is that we actively work to get some common references, so we understand what each other is saying. That is why, at least from the Social Democrats, we support increased language requirements for spouse reunification, tests in 0th grade Danish and children in crèches and kindergartens to ensure that we have a common language, but we also support the Danish language public service. So what is my question is: does the alternative come up for political action that aims to ensure that we have a common cultural platform to discuss on the basis of?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151227	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151228	We are backing up, for example. Not up about first-class language tests on the premise that it can have such a great personal impact on a child if you give a first-class child a defeat, and then it has to go over again that there are other ways to do it. Nor are we in favour of forcing children into the 0th grade crèche, because we believe as much as the Social Democracy that language acquisition is important, but we also believe that there are other ways to get there than through coercion. So it's kind of the only place we disagree. We do not disagree with the premise that language acquisition and cultural acquisition are important. We believe, for example. also at a professionally run primary school. So, yes, politicians must set the framework for primary school, and it is quite fine as it is today. After all, the purpose clause of the Folkeskolen says with all the necessary words that children must learn, what can be said, about equality, freedom and freedom of spirit, etc. But it's the professional school that has to go in and secure it. We politicians should not do that, because that is where it becomes so dangerous, that is when we start to go in with political ideologies and decide how it should be done. I fully agree with the importance of the common cultural heritage, but I am not so afraid that it is threatened, because we have a primary school that can carry that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151333	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151335	My experience is that the cohesion of society is threatened. We have less to do with each other, we understand each other less and less. Now I myself mentioned some election results from the platform, which I also think show some quite enormous differences. After the last parliamentary elections, I saw that a Jutland newspaper sent a reporter to Nørrebro to understand what happened there, and vice versa I saw that Politiken sent a reporter to South Jutland. I think this is dangerous for our society: we are increasingly drifting apart. So what I really would like to hear from the alternative is whether the alternative is in favour of us taking more political action than we already do to ensure that we have a common cultural basis to discuss and live together on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151422	I mean, we totally agree that there has to be a framework for that, but I think we just disagree on how to get there. For example: We are sitting right now looking at the • and we are not finished yet • what our relationship with what it takes to obtain Danish citizenship in Denmark could be. There are some of them, for example. In the alternative, it should be possible to count if you go to folk high school or take part in voluntary social work or go to civic education rather than, for example, taking part in education. must have Danish at level 3 because language acquisition is so different, depending on the culture or language tribe from which one comes. So it is so different whether you can learn Danish within a year or not. We fully agree that we need the new Danes to understand Danish society, but we just believe that it comes through civil society and voluntary work rather than being beaten through courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151502	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151504	Thank you. I would like to know whether Sweden is a pioneering country in the field of foreigners. I mean, sir. Uffe Elbæk once in a program has said that the way Sweden handled this issue was, compared with Denmark, much better. So does the alternative mean that Sweden is a pioneering country in the field of foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151523	No, we do not think so, because we really do not have a need to look to Sweden, and we do not believe that the challenges that we see they have in Sweden, among other things. in Malmö, is something that we think is desirable for Denmark. We really respect the fact that Sweden has stuck to what can be called the humanist perspective in relation to the whole refugee problem and has actually wanted to be a country that could deal with the refugee challenge that has been and has taken a large part of the burden. In fact, I think we should recognise Sweden for having done this from an international perspective, or at least from a European perspective. However, as Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said earlier, this is a common European task, and we must solve it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151602	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151604	Now I don't understand anything. On the one hand, Sweden will not be recognised as a pioneering country. On the other hand, one is opposed to the austerity measures adopted in Denmark to ensure that Denmark does not end up like Sweden. So what does the alternative really want? Sounds like you really don't want a scenario. You don't want what you see on the other side of the Øresund, but you don't want the strict course for which my own party and other parties in the Folketing have been banners. Does the rapporteur not see that this is a huge conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151633	For that there are just two things to say. Firstly, those we let into Denmark must be treated properly. There is nothing in the government's current policy, supported by the Danish People's Party, I was saying that treats our new Danes properly. Maybe it's on the tip. There is much of the policy that does not treat our new Danes properly, for example. the new L 140, which we first dealt with last week. The whole rhetoric has changed significantly over the past year. The second is that yes, we need to have a check on the influx, but we only get around that challenge through a common European solution. So when parties are out making national solutions for Denmark alone, it is completely untenable. It is now, and it is in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151709	We thank Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. And then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129151718	Thank you. I guess it was a great conversation, 'cause I guess it was about Lykke-Per that played out. I think that if we were all to be tested in Lykke-Per, we would have some challenges, no matter what the background is. But that would be really great. It is probably a debate about how much we invest in education, and we can take it at another time. But it is also important. For this debate, which I intend to hold more like this in the handball genre, and not quite so much in Lykke-Per, I would say that I know the Danes, and that I know Denmark as a country... it has just played itself out in recent days... with freeness and freedom of diversity and celebration... but also as a country where those basic democratic rights are more than just some ideals we are singing. We actually deliver them. And our Danish values, which are very much part of this debate, cannot be reduced to some particular food items or for that matter to the douche bag, even though I love it and have jumped around with it all night yesterday to celebrate our fantastic world champions in men's handball. But we have also spent a great deal of time debating Danishism and culture in this Chamber. That is also what the question is about. It is about the Danes' way of life and behaviour, Danish values: Can you be Danish and e.g.. wearing a scarf? Of course you can. However, on Friday we will have to re-examine the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party to ban people from wearing scarf in public workplaces. It sounds as if we could maintain Danish values by issuing dress orders or more bans. On the contrary, I believe. And I hope that there will still be a majority against the motion for a resolution on Friday. But I can understand that the Danish People's Party has had blood on its teeth, because the number of times that the Minister of Integration's tightening counter on the Ministry's website has rolled has been very, very many since the Prime Minister of the European Union I was just in to check exactly 3 years ago rhetorically asked itself: Is there room to tighten more? I don't see that right in front of me. But now we are also going to discuss the fact that when you are going to be here on a temporary basis, there can be no question of integration. And yet we expect everyone to take Denmark in. It doesn't add up. Last week we first considered it was also part of the debate here on the proposal for a law on paradigm change, and the word integration is deleted in all the places you can get to it in a number of different laws. 111 amendments to the legislation and 2 million. kr. is devoted only to plucking the word integration out of the laws. The foreigner's association with the labour market, participation in association life and Danish knowledge will be given as little importance as possible, it says. Employers warn against this: this will mean that companies have a much less desire to make efforts to get refugees into work, according to the consultation answer. The trade union movement warns against this: we can only urge the government to think again and correct what can only be an ill-thought error, says the chairman of the FOA. As far as I can tell, it says everywhere. And yet this bill, which is just the latest, ends up concluding that the responsibility for integration will continue to lie with the municipality to which the refugee has been searched. In other words, they must not be integrated, but the municipalities must nevertheless integrate everyone. So we have just given the municipalities a large number of new problems, but we expect them to solve them all, just with a little more difficult conditions. Then we can scold them afterwards. But it just seems generally to be the line. The speakers say nice words about integration and the value of taking Denmark to heart, but it works against reaching the negotiating table with the Danish People's Party. Because it is well known in the government that work, training and the acquisition of languages that we have just debated are not just part of integration; that is the key to integration. And yet it is then the Danish People's Party that dictates that people who have fled here are now told: you absolutely must not integrate, but you must do so anyway - otherwise there is. This does not really make sense, especially when we look at the group of refugees we have best evidence of in the past, namely those who came from the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. There we know that it was they who were the best integrated people who trained, worked and integrated themselves who went home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129152253	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129152305	Today's debate is about value policy. As a starting point, I think that is an excellent subject to discuss. I myself have both said and written a lot about it over the years and think it is an important part of the political debate. But to me value policy has something to do with defining what is right and what is wrong, what is good, what is bad. I think it is a good thing that the political debate has an orientation in this direction. But that is not what this is all about today, which we can understand at least from the debate so far and the way in which the question has been put. It is about discussing Danish values, you have to define yourself in relation to the alien. I think that is an all too narrow approach to that discussion, and it is a pity that it has become that way, but unfortunately it has become that way. When you talk about value policy, it is about how to bother the strangers as much as possible, and unfortunately this has become quite universally accepted here in the Folketing. It might as well be about democratic values, it could be about moral values, it could be about how to treat other people properly. Values should be more and more than how to bother the strangers in our country. Unfortunately, however, this has become the case. But as I said, it is a lot about Denmark and the Danish. I can understand that, among other things. The rapporteur of the Left that he attaches great importance to, and that does Dansk Folkeparti: Danish values, Denmark. But Denmark is not quite clear either. It's a lot of different things. I don't know if you remember that not so many people can, but at least we know that when Poul Henningsen made his Danish film in 1935, there was a huge trouble. It had been imagined that it would be a film about beech trees and young Danish men who did gymnastics and who sang, and about farmhouses that stood healthy and lovely in the countryside. But it was instead about people who worked, about machines, about an agriculture where it was not romantic, but where it was actually rather awkward with the work and machinery etc. That's what got us into a lot of trouble. But it was also part of Denmark that Poul Henningsen described in 1935. It's still the same way. The Denmark that some people are trying to describe is true, but that is not the whole truth. I really think this is important, and that is where I arrest the way one discusses that when discussing Danish values one does not have an absolute starting point for it. It's a lot of different things. They are indeed the ones who go to church, those who see Christianity as the most important; but they are also the ones who see socialism as the most important; those who go to 1 May meetings; those who sit in a tavern down at the South Harbor; those who go to gymnastics in the assembly house; those who go to scouts; those who go to football. It is, after all, a faceted picture of Denmark, and it is the people who live in Denmark who fill it out. After all, it is not some abstract vision of it, an abstract idea, that Danishness is such and such. The Danish people are the many people who live in our country, which Poul Henningsen also described in his film from 1935. What if we could get that starting point and sort of get some common things there and that is a lot of democracy, and it is to me also to see tolerance that we respect it differently, holding onto what is one's own historical and cultural background. As I said, there are no firm formulas for this, and we should be able to get it as a starting point and discuss the influence that comes from outside on that basis and say that there are problems when so many strangers come to our country. There are problems when demands are made that are not used to. There are problems for the people who have lived in an area where they feel that this is their area, and then suddenly some other cultural values come in. But it is something that can be dealt with, as the Prime Minister said not long ago. It is a common challenge that we have in our country. And instead of discussing from the point of view of hatred and from the point of view of demarcation, I think that a constructive approach should be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129152830	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129152834	Now Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also talked about hate. Just for the record, this isn't about hate. It's about love for the country; it's a beautiful thing. It's not about bothering anyone, either, like Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned. It's about taking care of something. That's what this is all about. And people who come to our country and must be here permanently are welcome to take Denmark to them. They are welcome to take Danish culture to heart if it is here that their future is. They're welcome to do that. The problem is that too many people don't. It has now been said that some people are doing it, but the problem is that too many people are not doing it. So it's just a service information, if there's any misunderstandings with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and SF. I don't mean to bother anyone. It's to take care of something that we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129152919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129152921	We are very much in agreement with that. Of course we must take care of what we love in our country, but if we know it will throw the baby out with the bathing water, if I may say so, then we will remove what I think is also very, very fundamental about Danish democracy, and that is respect for minorities, and that is that we have tolerance in relation to dissidents. It's always been part of what I'd call the Danish "always." It is clear that there may be an imbalance there, because that does not mean that everything should be recognised. Of course. That is not what lies in it, but in that one goes into a fanatical hatred of what one does not like, there is a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153017	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153019	I think, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has developed a strange way of arguing. There is no hatred, and therefore there is no fanatical hatred. In general, I do not think you should go around hating other people, which does not really make any sense. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen talks about respect for dissidents, and of course there must be, but the problem is that if you look at some of the Muslim environments in Denmark that are growing, one of the problems that are in those environments is in fact that in those environments there is very, very little respect for dissidents. There is a very, very heavy and extensive social and religious control, and that is what we have to do, because that is what is contrary to our culture and to our values. You do not help to solve that if you are simply in favour of even more people coming from those countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153103	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153109	I fully agree with that, and that was a very important reason why we supported parts of the ghetto package. In fact, I believe that ghettoisation in our society is a problem, that it is a problem that there are some cultural patterns in certain environments which are contrary to what I think should be what we are working from here in Denmark, because it is an old-fashioned culture which contrasts with the culture that I think we should work from. We must, of course, put an end to the oppression of women and social control. That is why we also agreed with parts of the ghetto package, because ghettoisation is part of it. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153147	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153149	Thank you. I remember my mom and my dad used to argue when I was a kid. If e.g. The kindergarten closed at 8:00 a.m. 17, and my father then picked me up at 17.15 and couldn't understand that there was an angry educator, it was because he had trouble decoding whether what with closing hours now was something the Danes demanded, or whether it was just such a recommendation that it was around there that the kindergarten closed. He thought that it was difficult to decode what the Danish society actually expected, perhaps because we say many things between the lines of Danish society. I think we have all learned that for a few decades, that is to say that things have to be said precisely and in cash so that people understand what we expect of each other and what they have to live up to. That is what we have tried to say in our proposal for adoption: the Parliament therefore wants to pursue a policy that ensures that immigrants acquire the Danish language and get to work as soon as possible. In addition, the Folketing wants to combat tendencies towards parallel societies and social control, which restricts the freedoms of some sections of the population. This is what we believe we can reasonably expect from each other in Danish society. Because I understand that culture has changed, of course, and it has changed since PH made its film in the interwar period, but that does not mean that we can only dissolve everything in indifference. After all, there must be something we can expect from each other. Isn't this what we can expect from each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153301	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153303	I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153306	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153308	I am very pleased about this, because I have been out to gather support for our proposal for adoption and, after all, I am working hard to get 90 mandates behind it. Can we expect the SF's mandates to back this up?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153315	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153317	I think we can, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153326	With that, we thank Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. And then it's sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153331	Thank you. I very much disagree with the SF's rapporteur that we cannot speak of Denmark as something unambiguous. There is only one Denmark in the world and it is in Denmark. But you can talk about different ways to be a Dane, and that's something else entirely. Being different Danish is something that is room for in Denmark, but what is important is that everyone builds their foundation or has their place on the basic Danish values of freedom. And of course you can talk about the basic Danish values of freedom. This is among other things. the right to think freely, write freely, draw freely, the right to decide on your own life, body and sexuality, education, marriage and future. I think that is important to hold on to. I think it is an extremely important issue and an important debate that is being taken here today and which the Danish People's Party has taken the initiative on. I think it is important that we sometimes take stock of this very important area of immigration and integration, which is an area which is of great concern to many Danes. I would like to start by saying that we in the Conservative People's Party fully agree with the government's line. Denmark is a small country, and we have a pain limit on how many people are admitted and how many you have the opportunity to integrate. It's very important that this society can keep up with the numbers. Immigration to Denmark has failed, especially in two areas. Too many of those with Middle Eastern or North African background often find themselves in constant opposition to Denmark, the Danes and the Danish values of freedom, and too many have been on cash benefits or early retirement for far too long. And it's a poisonous cocktail. And then we have agreed to give room to ghettos dominated by high unemployment, social control, crime and fundamentalism. And it is quite unacceptable that in Denmark there are areas where the Danish values of freedom are not dominant. In Denmark the Danish values of freedom should dominate everywhere. It should come as no surprise to anyone that Denmark is a unique country with unique traditions of freedom and a unique welfare society, and we all want to safeguard and preserve that. This is among other things. Therefore, there have been a number of recent tightenings that have been relevant and appropriate. Some of the austerity measures have been described as symbolic policy, and I do not know what, among other things. the handshake and the burka thing. For me, they're not about attitudes... the handshake and burka... they're actions. We are not legislating against attitudes, but against actions. That's why the government's fight with the ghettos is also important. It will not be easy, it will be a long, tough move, but if we maintain the strict legal and foreign policy combined with an early response to the children, then I think we can succeed. A strongly coherent Denmark demands that we uphold the fundamental values of democratic freedom. And it is not enough simply to comply with Danish legislation if you want to become part of Danish society. We need to demand total assimilation in relation to the fundamental values, and a fundamental understanding of Danish culture, history and language is also necessary. If you want to live and live in Denmark, you have to learn Danish. It is very much in the interests of cohesion. We are a small country and we need to understand what each other is saying. By demanding Danish education for new arrivals, we ensure better conditions for integration in the future. Finally, in the Conservative People's Party, we demand that foreigners become self-sufficient as soon as possible. One should not be able to live either half a life or a whole life on public support if one can work. Unfortunately, there are a number of things which can, but which do not, and we should not accept that at all on behalf of taxpayers. If we do not protect our common treasures, we will undermine our welfare society and mutual solidarity. Then disbelief grows among people. If you can contribute, you have to contribute. If immigrants join the basic Danish values of freedom, work, learn Danish, make their children Danish, then they are embraced and accepted, and there are indeed many who want Denmark and contribute positively to Denmark. We're gonna embrace them. Those who are constantly complaining and are in opposition to the surrounding society, those with a lot of trouble, must therefore be uncompromising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129153916	Thank you for that, thank you for the debate. I've left my papers down there because I'm kind of in doubt about how I'm actually gonna round this thing off. One possibility was to say that it has been a good and fine and nuanced debate, which in itself is an example of what we have been talking about, namely core values in Danish society. We talk nicely to each other and about each other and things like that. And that's what I told you. Something else is that when you sit and listen, you think: where does all this lead, because there seems to be such a kind of consensus that numbers mean something? But as soon as you start talking about taking steps to ensure that the number does not get too large, it is just as if the chain is jumping off, and then some sort of language trench war is going on where people start questioning each other's intentions. I don't really understand. At least I myself, I think, have a balanced picture of the fact that there are different things we have to observe at one and the same time. I fully agree with that, sir. Henrik Dahl said about the historical errors. They are so committed, and we cannot make that right. That's why it's no use, and I don't think so either. Henrik Dahl in any way is guilty that we have the approach to it, that we are stuck in the past and say: If only they hadn't made those mistakes and let so many in, we would have been somewhere else today, and then we would be some problems even. It's not taking us anywhere. That's one thing. The second thing is that we have to recognise and acknowledge that we have some challenges that are to spot • and several different people have spoken it out: sir. Martin Henriksen, the rapporteur of my own party and Mr Martin Henriksen. Mattias Tesfaye. Something happens to a country if the common frame of reference crumbles there. And so it is no use, as some of the left's representatives in this debate, just talking about liberalism and everything-is-good. Something happens to a country if the common reference framework crumbles. We cannot legislate for everything, and an example of this is the Danish free school tradition, which is unique, even when you are travelling out, and which has in fact also been relatively unbureaucratic, and which is quite fantastic about the fact that for each other's tax money you can, so to speak, move your child elsewhere and choose school for your child. But it is also based on the fact that there is some view of life in the back that we have in common with Kold and Grundtvig's view of school. And when we suddenly experience that there are people in the country who embrace this tradition of freedom, but use it counterproductively not to enlighten their children, but to darken their children, then it challenges us on every dimension. The Folketing reacts and responds wisely. We do control, we make rules, etc., and slowly we start to move our country somewhere where we don't really, i.e. those of us who were here first, excuse my terminology... can recognize it, because we don't want that kind of control, bureaucracy and supervision. I am just mentioning this as one example of what will happen if we do not ensure that we have some kind of homogeneity, some kind of common reference framework. That's why it's relevant when Mr. Mattias Tesfaye takes out that example of Kim Larsen as an illustration of the fact that there are people in this country who refer to a different place than most people do. It is not a simple matter to solve it, and I think that, firstly, it requires a nuanced analysis and, secondly, it requires action everywhere. This is at least what the government's strategy has been most clearly expressed about the ghetto plans, which are, after all, the first time we have seriously tried to use all the political tools at one and the same time; that is not only attacking this housing policy, not only attacking labour market policy, social policy or educational policy, but doing it all horizontally, in other words at the same time on a large scale to see if it cannot create an impression. And we have to do more like that. But first and foremost, we have to understand that if we allow the problems to grow and increase the flow, we will logically lose our ability to solve the challenges that have already accumulated. There is some regrettable dividing line going down in the Parliamentary Chamber anyway. It may not go quite where it has always gone, but it goes between those who theoretically say that of course numbers mean nothing, and who gets a little pissed off every time some people say that they will let everyone in because, of course, they won't let everyone in, but there are just no tools for what we have to do not to let everyone in and then the majority where I am delighted that it seems to be a strengthened majority over time, which says that we also have to make some heavy decisions, although it is difficult to make it temporary, that there must be tough requirements for citizenship, that there must be strict requirements for marriage and family reunification. Because we have to take care of Denmark. And that dividing line is still gone. Then I think that we are so far from the next parliamentary elections that I will not lose myself here in some analysis of how wrong things can be if the majority change and someone who wants my post suddenly becomes dependent on some of those who in this Chamber have said what they have said today. I will not go into that at all, because it could only create the impression that we are in some sort of electoral situation, and we are not. So I think I will stop here and then thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154532	There is one brief comment to the Prime Minister from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154538	Thank you. I thought the PM had good points... not all of them, but some of them were good. I would like to ask a question which I also started the debate by asking, but where the Prime Minister then did not have the opportunity to answer it because time ran out. That's the way it goes. The question was whether the Prime Minister recognises that there are Danes who feel alien in their own country. If the Prime Minister acknowledges that this is the case, how does the Prime Minister think that we are best addressing the insecurity and concerns of some Danes? I then mentioned an example which could be in relation to population development. Statistics from Statistics Denmark regularly come with population projections, etc., which show that the proportion of immigrant backgrounds is increasing and increasing. Does the Minister recognize that there are the concerns of a number of Danes in the Danish society that they simply feel alienated in their own country, at least in certain areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154632	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154635	Well, I have no problem recognizing that, because it's probably a fact that people feel that way. I have that occasionally myself. There is no point in hiding the problems. If you go into our criminal services and see who fills our prisons it is wrong to say occupying our prisons, but who sits in our prisons and sees the pattern of crime we have, then you can see that it turns wrong, compared to what it should do statistically when you look at our population composition. For example, when one dares to say that out loud... working with boys who fall out of development and find it difficult to get a foothold in our education system, there is a huge imbalance in ethnicity. So there are very, very many places where we have real problems. That is also why we need to solve them. We just have to be careful that we don't fall into that ditch where we say we just make them walk away by making those people go away. After all, we have a political responsibility in this place in the history of Denmark, where others before us have made some decisions that mean that the number of people with a non-Western background has increased in my lifetime from almost none to half a million. We can't roll that backwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154802	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154805	Thank you. These are also some good examples that the Prime Minister will give here. It is true that we have been involved in taking a lot of good action together. It could be ghetto plans, and it could be other things. But in the Danish People's Party we do not believe that it is enough. I will not ask why the government cannot then support the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, which is about an asylum freeze, if the Prime Minister wants to get as close to zero as possible. However, in view of the challenges mentioned here by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister considers that there is a need for serious work to be done on new, concrete measures aimed at limiting the flow, for example. to take the influx of asylum and to further reduce the influx by means of family reunification rules? Is it a goal for the government that that influx should go even further down?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154849	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129154851	Yes, and I would also like to reply to what was then not asked, that is why we are not just saying that asylum is being stopped at the border. It is because there are also some other values that are Danish, as well as some other interests that are Danish. It is a fundamental Danish interest that we profess an international legal order. That is why I will not be forced to break the convention. And it is not within the framework of the conventions to reject people at the border. It is a Danish interest that we keep to international cooperation. That is also what is part of the solution. Because just as I am proud of the austerity we have made, which has made Denmark move from being Europe's fifth best to Europe's sixteenth most sought asylum destination, the other side of the coin is that it is also because of international work that it has succeeded here. It is also because of international work that we have had Sam Mansour sent back to Morocco. That is why I want to put Denmark on the right side of that line when we talk about conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155003	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155006	Thank you. It is also because of the Turkey agreement that the influx has, in general, diminished. I think we can agree on that. But I do have another question, because now I felt a little bit taken from the criticism about saying that we cannot let everyone in and that we will not provide any solutions. I just think I will stick to that, and I hope that the Prime Minister will agree with me that the optimal solution to the refugee crisis at all times is now no longer available, but it may be that in one year, two years or five years' time there will have to be a pan-European solution and a pan-European distribution policy rather than individual states starting to make their own solutions. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that the optimal solution, and I know it is difficult, but that does not mean that we should not work for it, is a pan-European solution in relation to the flows of refugees that may come?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155053	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155055	We have exactly the same refugee crisis that we had three years ago and two years ago and that we also have in one year and in four years' time because there are countries at war on the one hand and countries with a standard of living much lower than ours on the other. That is why there is a huge, and one can understand that, appetite to move. So when there are not many people coming to Europe at the moment, it is not, after all, because the underlying factors that create migratory pressures have disappeared. Then it's because some people are starting to do something about them. In other words, an EU-Turkey agreement has been concluded which means that Syrian refugees remain in Turkey in millions and do not come to the European Union. It is not because there has been peace in Syria. Denmark, in cooperation as the number three country after Italy and Germany, contributes to the EU Trust Fund for Africa with real people's money, so we contribute as the third most willing contributor. There are probably 40,000 to 50,000 people who have come all the way up through Africa to Libya, who have been turned around and driven back. So it's not like the factors aren't there. That is why I have to say quite frankly that what the alternative says about just solving it gets a little too soft when there is no willingness to solve it. You might have to get your hand on the hot plate here, because otherwise the number won't come under control. People want to come if they're allowed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155222	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155224	But it is not true that there is no will to resolve it. But the will of us is just a European pressure, a pressure on the European Union. I know it's hard, and that's what I was trying to say before, but then the Prime Minister has to tell me what he prefers. Now Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, after all, the social democracy's own alien initiative, which came in the spring, I think it was, which is a national Danish solution, where we then buy space in some North African country, in order to do the asylum treatment there. We will not even do asylum treatment in Denmark. Does the Prime Minister prefer such a solution in Denmark rather than a solution in which we push in the European Union, have a pan-European distribution key and take the number that we then have to draw from that key, and do the asylum treatment here because, after all, that is what we, as part of a European cooperation, are committed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155314	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155315	But what are the figures that the alternative might take? I'd like to hear about that at some point. I prefer realistic solutions. It's something that moves something in the now. And I can give all sorts of great lectures about what were the ideal right solutions. The ideal right solutions were that we had an interaction with Africa, which meant that no Africans wanted to move, and we got an international effort around the conflicts in the Middle East so that they did not jump into war. But I guess we can't sit around waiting for that, 'cause I guess the world isn't that good. The second best solution was, of course, that we had so much control over the EU's external borders that no one crossed them and that we had a pan-European commitment in our neighbourhoods that allowed people to live in their own neighbourhoods on reasonable terms until they could return home, and then we could consider taking in some UN quota refugees from country to country. But I guess we can't wait for that either. That is why the third best solution will be the solution of reality. It will be a combination of grasping for what we can do, and part of it is to tighten up Danish legislation. That is why we have moved from the fifth most popular asylum destination when I became Prime Minister to a sixteenth place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155427	Then we'll thank the Prime Minister. We shall conclude the debate with the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr President. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155440	Thank you for the floor. I think it has been a good debate with good comments, but of course also less good remarks, but that is the way it is. Thank you to the Prime Minister and various rapporteurs for their contributions to the debate. When we have raised the question debate on the part of the Danish People's Party, it is an attempt to take seriously the concerns of the many Danes, including those Danes who feel that in some areas they are alienated in their own country, which of course is not fair. This is an expression of a desire to oppose current developments in which, unfortunately, Denmark is becoming more and more Muslim in a number of areas. We take this seriously in the Danish People's Party, and we believe that others should take it just as seriously. It is only last time that it is about preserving and safeguarding what binds us together as people, as Danes, and these are, of course, some fundamental values. It is our culture, it is our traditions, it is our democracy, it is the rule of the people, it is the framework, and it is also the basis, and we must take care of that. One of the tools for achieving the goal is a number of foreign policy constraints, and we in the Danish People's Party do not think that can be avoided at all. In this respect, it is good that the Prime Minister said that the number of asylum seekers should be as close to zero as possible, but why the government would not support an asylum freeze can be difficult to understand, because it can actually be included within the UN Convention on Refugees if it is decided to organise it in such a way that asylum seekers are rejected at the border, as we think we should do together with a number of other initiatives. But I'm sure we'll get back to that at another time. So for this time I just want to say thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155625	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 31 January 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155638	The rapporteur for the questioners is on his way up here so that we can have the debate as usual, and that is why I shall give the floor to Mr Beazley. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party, for reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155732	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of all the Danish Parliament's parties, the climate rapporteurs have chosen to call the Minister for Climate Change for a question debate on the annual climate policy statement. I think we are all very keen to discuss the climate, and there has also been a great deal of good and bad happening in the last year, which makes this debate topical, so we look forward to the debate and welcome the fact that the Minister of Climate Affairs will take part in the question today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155801	Thanks to Jens Joel. And for answers, it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129155810	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the debate on the question. I welcome this opportunity to discuss Climate Policy 2018 with the Danish Parliament. Although it is on a sad and disturbing basis, it is gratifying that climate policy has been allowed to fill a lot in 2018. We face one of the greatest challenges the world has ever known. We must resolve this jointly in good and open dialogue. The government has been pulled into the work clothes, and I hope the opposition will do the same. From the government's side, in 2019 we will continue to use our efforts to present the population with concrete policies that lead to progress for the climate. That is why, from the government's point of view, we keep our eyes on the ball and continue along the ambitious tracks we have already laid. Climate Policy statement 2018 gives an overview of the direction the government has set for Denmark's road towards climate neutrality by 2050 and also contains my comments on the recommendations that the Climate Council has made in 2018. The statement reproduces some of the clear goals, but disturbing messages that we also received in 2018 from climate science. In the autumn of 2018, the UN Climate Panel published a special report on the possibilities of keeping global warming down to 1.5 degrees in relation to the pre-industrial period. The climate panel's message was that if warming is to be limited to 1.5 degrees, global greenhouse gas emissions must reach zero around 2050. This requires comprehensive and rapid global greenhouse gas reductions. A higher global temperature than the one we have set ourselves for with the Paris Agreement will lead to a higher probability of major consequences of climate change, which we cannot remedy. If we are to be sure of achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement, a balance must be struck between emissions and removals of greenhouse gases. The only safe way to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement is by working towards climate neutrality. In 2018, the government has set the direction towards the transformation of Danish society into a climate-neutral society. We have done so with a large number of concrete climate policy initiatives. First of all, I would like to highlight the Energy Agreement of June 2018, a very ambitious agreement that sets the tracks for energy policy towards 2030. That is why I am also pleased that the agreement has the support of the entire Folketing. I'd like to sign for that. With the Energy Agreement, we jointly set the ambitious goal of Denmark being climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. In this way, Denmark takes the lead in the global and European efforts to live up to the Paris Agreement. With the agreement, we have set the road to 55%. renewable energy by 2030 against just over 30 per cent. Today, that is to say, almost a doubling of only ten years. In addition, our entire electricity consumption must be covered by wind, solar and other green energy sources by 2030, and then coal for electricity generation must be phased out by 2030. It is a great mouthful, but also realistic, and this is not least due to the very significant fall in wind and sun prices, most recently with the result of the first technology-neutral offer where sun and wind compete. In this case, the aid was as much as six times lower than the aid for landwind in the previous scheme. This is a concrete result for the climate, and it is the result of a bourgeois-liberal resolution, which the opposition, as you know, was against. Denmark is therefore a pioneering country throughout the world in the field of energy, and the energy agreement helps to ensure that we remain at the forefront. But that is not enough. That is why we in the government took the next major step in the transition, when in the autumn we put forward a climate change initiative in which we seriously address emissions in the other climate-leading sectors: transport and agriculture. It won't be easy. We do not have the good scalable solutions in the transport and agriculture sectors that we have in the energy sector. Nevertheless, the proposal for initiatives in the field of transport can make a contribution to achieving the objective of the European Union of 32 million. t CO2 The total reduction requirement in the non-quota sectors, also known as cars, farmers and housing, is estimated to be between 32 million. Thirty-seven million and thirty-seven million. t CO 2. So with the ambitious efforts of the government, we have made a great deal of progress towards achieving the goal, and this will, by its very nature, ensure that we achieve fully in line with fixed stocktakes during the commitment period. Specifically, we are taking the initiative, among other things. grab the climate-laden cars. Until now, CO2 is but the government is taking up the challenge. The Government's goal is that no more traditional petrol and diesel cars will be sold after 2030, and from 2035 no new plugin hybrid cars will be sold. With the aim, together with a number of other responsible countries, we are sending a clear signal to the car industry and the rest of the world that we want green cars on the roads. We will help the deployment of electric cars with a number of initiatives at home. The first step we took when we made sure that electric cars worth up to DKK 400 000. shall be exempt from registration duty. And the recently modernised taxi law now guarantees a taxi permit for up to 300 green taxis. We are also about to set up a commission to propose an overall strategy for the spread of green cars on a large scale in Denmark. This is the only serious approach when we have to rethink an area where the state gets approx. 50 billion. kr. It is also important that the social partners should be involved in the implementation of the social dialogue. Nor should we forget public transport. The government's goal is that it should be completely over with CO2 It is good for both the climate and the Danes' health. We are now going to discuss this further with the municipalities, and I look forward to that very much. In the motion, we are also addressing agriculture, including here with a comprehensive catalogue of initiatives that are more comprehensive than any previous government has put forward. Today, Denmark has a very environmentally friendly and efficient agriculture in Europe. However, we lack good climate solutions on a large scale, which, I believe, do not affect agricultural production. We need to research and develop new solutions. That's why the government has set 90 million. kr. to an ambitious climate research effort in agriculture. We want to take concrete action that will bring about greenhouse gas reductions in agriculture right now, and that applies, for example, to agriculture. improvement of biogas plants, dissemination of air- and climate-friendly housing technology and establishment of a land distribution fund. Finally, we need to increase CO2 which is why the government wants to set aside 100 million. kr. for research and storage of CO2 The Government, a few months after the climate initiative was launched, is already in the process of implementing the initiatives. We have been able to do so without the opposition, an opposition which has instead been more concerned with electoral drills and mediestunts. However, efforts towards climate neutrality cannot be made in Denmark alone. We have to take the lead. We must do so because it will benefit Danish industry, but we must also ensure that we have the international and European framework that encourages other countries to work towards net zero emissions, like Denmark. The direction in the European Union in the coming years will be crucial here. Here, the government is actively working for the EU to set a clear direction towards a climate-neutral society when defining a new long-term climate strategy. The government will work hard to ensure that the European Union puts out the right working lines so that we can develop the solutions that will enable us to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. This is true, for example. in the field of transport, where the government will press for the EU to have a plan for phasing out petrol and diesel cars. Denmark gets nothing out of going alone here. We need to send a common strong signal in the European Union to push the car industry. The European Union also has an important role to play in international climate negotiations, where we in Denmark are working for the EU to maintain its global leadership. Among other things, it has to be done. ensure that by 2020 the European Union strengthens its contribution to the Paris Agreement. With COP24 in Katowice well over, we have among other things. Through active pan-European action, a set of rules has been established to make the Paris Agreement a reality. This is one of the great climate policy victories we have reaped in 2018. In the coming year, the focus will continue to be on the need to increase the global level of ambition if we are to limit climate change. Among other things, it has to be done. take place under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General's climate summit in September 2019. In this context, the Prime Minister has launched an international investment coalition for clean energy as a Danish contribution to the summit. On the Danish side, we also continue our important bilateral cooperation in the field of energy with a number of emerging economies. Through these collaborations, we disseminate knowledge about well-functioning policies and solutions that can promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. Denmark also contributes to the global green transition through a large Danish effort to influence leading international organisations in a more green direction. Denmark, for example, supports. initiatives in the World Bank and the African Development Bank providing technical support to projects in developing countries focused on renewable energy. In this way we ensure that we pass on the good and important experiences from the Danish transition to rapidly developing countries. The government has set the right direction for Denmark's climate policy. This also leads us to be well on the way to achieving our international goals. For example, we expect Denmark to over-fulfil the climate target in the EU by 2020 with a total of 14 million. t CO2 I think we can be real proud of that. The Energy Agreement ensures that emissions from the energy sector continue to fall dramatically towards 2030. The climate and air emissions also contribute with significant CO2 It is a very difficult challenge that the government has nevertheless addressed. In this way, we ensure that Denmark will reach its target in 2050. That is why I believe that we are on the right path with the changeover, but we are far from achieving climate change, and the government's efforts are not halting with the energy agreement and climate and air play. We have placed firm stocktakes in favour of climate action until 2030. The first stocktake is in 2022, where we follow up on climate action and assess where we stand and what we should start. I know that there are many good proposals for future climate action, both among the Members in this Chamber and among the many actors in Denmark who are committed to climate action. We must bring all good ideas into play in the climate effort, and this must be done taking into account common sense, Denmark's economy and how to get as much climate as possible for the money. I think that is a really exciting challenge. I look forward to a good debate with you here in Denmark on Denmark's climate policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161145	Thank you very much, Minister. The minister would like to stay here on the platform. A few brief comments from the rapporteurs can now be made. This is one question we have in this round before we go further with the rapporteurs. These are the new rules of the game we have. So that is one brief comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161211	That wasn't much, I'd say. From the answer given by the Minister, which came to me yesterday, after it has been in some ministries for a long time, to the question where we are asking about the reductions, it is quite clear that if we are going to be a zero-emission society by 2050, then we must reduce our CO2 tonnes per year. decade. So when you look at what the government is doing in its actions and its planning, we are faced with reaching it in the year 2150. You get to that 100 years late. That is why I am sitting here and having a little difficulty taking it very seriously when the government shames itself so much on its great climate effort. Is it not true that with the figures that have been included in the replies, we are not at all on the right track and that we are not at all involved in reducing our CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161313	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161314	Thank you for the question. Thank you, too, for the new form of debate here in the Danish Parliament, which needs to get used to. In fact, with the proposal we have made, we are setting an ambitious course towards 2030. But it is also clear that a number of the low-hanging fruits have been harvested. This is particularly true in relation to the conversion of the energy sector, biomass, etc. There are a lot of actions we have done from 2010 to 2020. But I can just guarantee Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen is one thing: we have to reach the target of 2050 on climate neutrality, and that is also why it is part of the government's climate change initiative that we have three times towards 2030, and it can be even more times that we have to see how far we have come, and that is also why I have clearly signalled today that we are also prepared to increase the EU's climate ambitions by 2020 by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161409	I could have a concern if you could ask enough. I can only say, for information, that the Minister will come back to the chair at the end. So this is kind of an extra opportunity for this new form of debate. So I just want you to be happy about that. Now it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161422	The minister talks a lot about the autumn report, the 1.5-degree report. It's a contrast again. I'm feeling a little bit the same way as Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen, for we know that even with the energy conciliation and the climate plan we are now going in reverse compared to the reduction of CO2, the United Nations is at the same time saying that we have to fivefold the speed. So how can the Minister praise what he does when we go the wrong way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161457	Thank you for the question to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. We're not going the wrong way, we're going the right way. Looking back on the energy agreement from 2012, the overall reduction towards 2020 of between 10 and 11 million. a. Looking at the energy agreement and the agreement we made before the summer break, the overall reduction towards 2030 will be at the same level as the 2012 agreement, namely between 10 and 11 million. a. In addition, there has been a climate change initiative from the government which reduces by between 37 and 32 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of this report. Because that's what's gonna be needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161534	Then it's mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161535	Thank you. The situation is very serious, and I therefore agree with the Minister that there are some low-hanging fruits that have been harvested. But what we are trying to achieve is why the government believes that by 2030 we can reduce by 6 million. t, but from 2030 to 2050 we shall then remove 39 million. a. Can the Minister not see that one leaves a very, very large task behind? If the Minister says it is because we have harvested the low-hanging fruits, it is not easier simply to postpone it until after 2030. So for the next 10 years, the government is gonna plan to cut by 6 million. and thus leaves barely 40 million. It is a matter for the future governments to do so. How can it be that we are serious, that we are ambitious and that we take responsibility for the transformation that we have to achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161633	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161634	Thank you for the question. When I look at what it is about that has come from the government, both the agreement we have on energy and the government's climate initiative, there is no reason not to be quite happy with it. But I would also like to stress that this is not enough. Further initiatives will be needed up to 2030 as well as beyond 2030. The best way to lift this is to get the EU to raise its level in relation to CO2 Denmark's total emissions of 0.1 per cent. of the world's CO2 We can see ourselves here as the centre of the world, but if we really need to get something done, the international level must be increased. And here the government is working super-actively and fortunately with a very, very broad majority, including the Social Democracy, in the backseat of increasing the EU's ambition level, thereby also pushing for the rest of the world to increase its ambition level. If this is really going to work, the way is for us to increase the international level and get it up to the same high blade that Denmark is on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161736	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161738	Thank you very much. But it was nice to hear the Minister say so clearly that the government's policy is not enough. It is then an admission today that we can join. I just want to follow up on it, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen said that we have been given 31 years, or we have made a common goal that over the next 31 years Denmark will be a country that will not emit more CO2 This means that we have 31 years to run a stretch. Right now, the government is running at a pace where it will take 131 years to reach its goal. It's not gonna take 31 years, it's gonna take 131 years. If this was a marathon, and one can say that where it is about getting to the goal and doing so in time, how is the rest of the population supposed to believe that we can reach the last piece when you run at a pace right now, which one might almost call crawling pace? So how are we gonna make it? You run at a pace where it will take 131 years. How are we supposed to believe we're gonna make it in 31 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161833	I can just say that the target set is actually 2050 at the latest. When I look at some of the cases that are being broadcast in the European Union, and also where we ourselves stand, we are actually prepared to look at if that is not possible before 2050. I think that with the measures that have been taken, the energy agreement, the climate change initiative, we have reached a significant point. But it is clear that we will need to do more, and there is a need, above all, for there to be a massive development of technology. I think I share with a broad majority in the Folketing an expectation that there will also be new technologies that can play a decisive role. This is also the reason why, in the energy agreement, we increase the resources we spend on research and development in the energy sector quite significantly, so that we reach 1 billion. kr. in 2024 to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161926	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129161927	Thank you, President. After all, the Danish People's Party concluded an agreement with the government in 2017 on technology-neutral supply of land-based VE, and we recently obtained the results of the tender, which showed that the need for support for land-based VE has been reduced to almost a tenth of what it was in the past. This is a welcome result, and I am sure the Minister will agree with me that it is very good. With the technological development that we have had and the fall in the price of renewable energy, we have to anticipate that we will soon get to the point where renewable energy can do without subsidies and that is the way we need to go in order to replace much of our fossil energy production with renewable energy in Denmark. Does the government share the optimism of the Danish People's Party that technology development will make renewable energy the cheapest form of energy in not very long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162024	Thank you for a very good question. I fully share the views of the Danish People's Party here, and I am very pleased with the agreement we made. It was a responsible agreement and I was pleased that Dansk Folkeparti took a responsibility here, which also meant that the price was reduced quite significantly. We have gone from a support for wind energy of 25 cents per hour. kilowatt-time to be down on the other side of 2 cents per day after the offer. kilowatt-hour. That's very significant. And that also means that the green conversion will be much, much cheaper. And it is not only the result of the agreement of the government and the Danish People's Party that it is also the result of massive technology development when it comes to the development of wind energy. If we are to achieve the objectives that have been set, it will require technology development, and fortunately this has happened here, and I have a clear expectation of this in a large number of areas, including agriculture and other areas which are important in terms of reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162124	With that, we thank the Minister, who can then relax a little, until there are certainly some questions. We are now embarking on the debate and the general rules apply to short remarks. That is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Joel, who gets the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162150	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for answering the question. The situation is serious. The climate is changing, and more and more people are being flooded. At home we had a record warm summer, which was at least a premonition of how extreme weather can suddenly turn upside down what we see as the normal situation. Statistics and numerous research reports have stressed that we need to act more quickly and that we need to act and start the transformation in all parts of our society. When the UN Panel on Climate Change published its latest report in the autumn, the Minister for Climate Affairs also spoke with great words. I believe that the climate minister said that we should do everything in our power to address climate change. In that case, it is to be hoped that there will be higher powers at some point, because what the government is really doing is to solve a very small part of the task over the next 10 years, namely 6 million. It is also expected that the governments that come after it will be able to remove nearly 40 million. t of the remaining 20 years in order to achieve its objectives. And, of course, we agree on when we are going to achieve it, we are just deeply divided about how fast we should move right now. The Prime Minister also knocked out his arms and said that now we should have a million electric cars. I asked what the government's actual policy would mean, and the answer we received last week was in stark contrast to the Prime Minister's fine words, namely that what the government had now done would give 150 more electric cars in 2019 than if nothing had been done. That is not a very impressive figure. I was just looking at how many cars have been sold in 2017, and that corresponds to 6 hours of sales of ordinary cars throughout 2019. So it goes without saying that with the trail in which the government has placed us, we will have to move very quickly afterwards, and that is why we are calling for us to get into a different gear, to follow the calls from the reports to act faster and to do so everywhere in society, that is to say to get agriculture and transport. Speaking of which, from up here, the Minister said that a number of agricultural initiatives had been presented. My good colleague, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has asked whether we could not get an inventory of what the individual elements of the government's climate and air play would contribute, and there is only one of the proposals about agriculture that has found its way into the table and actually has a climate effect. Then it may well be that the government has 28 bullet points on a piece of paper, but if there is only one thing that actually reduces the climate load, then we still have a big challenge away. Moreover, I can say that the reduction in the climate load that one proposal makes corresponds to one-twentieth of the reduction that is achieved by doing the desk exercise that the government is doing by crediting climate credits. So for every time we do something out in reality, we do twenty times more at the desk, and it goes without saying that we will not be able to save the climate with that. In other words, we need to talk a little less about the climate and then act a little more. In recent years, too, action has been taken in the area of climate change, but unfortunately it has just gone in the wrong direction. It started in 2016 by halving investment in energy research, and it costs not only for the climate, but also for Danish jobs, which we get fewer when we invest less in future solutions. The attempt was also made to cancel offshore wind farms, to drop the climate target of the previous government, and even to try to get the Climate Council to stop talking about the climate target that a majority of the Folketing had actually been behind and was still behind. And three times over the last few years, black fossil cars have been made cheaper, while electric cars have become more expensive. It goes without saying that this is the wrong way to go. I also believe that the government's lack of ambition in this area has reached beyond these otherwise a little thick walls, where you can be a little afraid of anyone discovering it, because in these hours people are signing a demand for a strengthened climate law. There are soon 50,000 citizens who have signed up to the fact that they want a strengthened climate law. When 50,000 citizens think it is necessary, even if we actually have a climate law, it is obviously because they can see that it is not taken seriously enough and that the government does not do what is needed. We have also seen that not only the green organisations, but also the government's own advisor, the Climate Council, in very strong terms, has said that they were slowing down the transition. This was what led the Minister to call the Climate Council's criticism gibberish and, at the same time, to replace the chairman of the Climate Council. But all these things don't go away because you don't want to listen to it, because of course you have to. We would like to see the opposition, from the Social Democrats, to the negotiating table, we would like to look at what can be done in transport, and the agricultural sector, also at very short notice, in order to get the climate debate and climate action back on track again. Denmark must once again be a green pioneering country. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that neither the world nor Denmark is on track to meet the Paris Agreement's objectives of temperature increases of no more than 2 degrees and as close to 1.5 degrees as possible, and that according to the Climate Council, the Government's overall climate effort will reduce the speed of the green transition to a quarter of the current pace. Parliament does not want climate action to be halted, as the government suggests, and stresses the need to tackle change in all sectors. Therefore, before the parliamentary elections, the government is required to call for negotiations on a sufficiently ambitious and long-term plan for Danish climate action, which among other things. contains: 2 V 62).
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162844	Thank you. And that proposal is part of the negotiations. There are a number of brief comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162848	Thank you. And thank you for a very good speech. Now the rapporteur mentioned that we agree on when we are going to achieve it. And I am well aware that there is such a goal that we should be a zero-emission society by 2050. However, it is an objective that has been set before we got the IPCC report, which, like it did, pointed out that we actually need to do something more. So I really do not think that we are in a situation where we can rightly say that we agree that we should not be in a position to do so until then. I have tried to read what the Social Democratic Party thinks, and the Party has such wordings that one should be fossil-free in 2045. We ourselves work in the Enhedslisten to try to make a good plan for how we can be a zero-emission society by 2040. It really takes a lot, but it is, in fact, something that is realistic. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that we need to revise the objective, i.e. whether we can wait as long as 2050 to achieve the objective of being a zero-emission society or whether we need to do it a little sooner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129162946	I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that, if I may say so, every time we get new knowledge, we are also reminded that the pace we have expected so far is usually not ambitious enough. So it is not long ago that we discussed fossil freedom in 2050, and that is why the Social Democrats have said that we want to get rid of fossil fuels more quickly. That's one of them. to make it more realistic to implement the zero emission scenario that I know we agree on. So with regard to the question of whether we should turn this up, I would like to discuss whether we can do it five years before what the government has so far set up. What I am trying to focus on in this debate is that even if we did so at the rate of the government and according to what the Minister says, the effort planned for the next 10 years is far from enough to achieve our goal by 2050. So the rapporteur is right in saying that we must hurry. But we could start by taking seriously at all that we have set a target by 2050. And, as I say, we would like to speed up elements of it, such as fossil freedom, and to achieve some of it more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163059	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163100	Well, that sounds good. Then we need to find a structure for how we can discuss it and talk about it and clarify what sort of actors we can involve in those processes. In fact, I think that is essential. When you look at how many outside Christiansborg would like to give us good advice, I actually think that we can get something out of involving civil society out there in some processes where we come to see if it is realistic to make a good plan where we are going to achieve goals earlier. Then I would like to sign off on the fact that there have been some electric car negotiations, where I think there was a fine couple running, which draws the outlines of the fact that there could be good cooperation in a different majority after an election. I think that's really nice. So I would like to hear the rapporteur: what is the specific target on the electric car side that the rapporteur thinks we should set? That is, of course, part of our proposal for adoption today. Social democracy has in the past had such a half a million, and the government has said a million. What are the numbers we should try to reach by 2030 in the electric car sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163158	There is no doubt that if we are to achieve the goal of the transformation of the transport sector, we need to push politically. And it can be said that the difference between the goal formulated by the Social Democratic Party and which the government spent most of six months trying to shoot down until another goal was then formulated and the government's own goal is that the government will not be tied up to the goal. And that is why it has been important, with our glasses, to say that we believe and hope that technology development will allow us to go further, but that we will commit ourselves to pushing through development. And that is why we are looking for a binding target. And there is our starting point, after all, the 500,000 green cars that we have played out with ourselves. In fact, I also believe that this will mean that what you have to start up, that is to say the development you have to set in motion, may well mean that there will then be more green cars, because technology will do so. But technology bypasses Denmark in the present situation because nothing happens. And this means that there are good new green cars that are not introduced to the Danish market because you do not know if the Danish political system is willing to receive them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163306	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163308	Thank you, and thank you for a very good speech. As the rapporteur knows, in the alternative, we are also very concerned about our production of fossil energy, in other words, the search for oil and gas. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party believes that climate policy can defend the pursuit of new oil and gas resources in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163333	There is no doubt that, in relation to oil and gas extraction, we are actually working on some international agreements to make it a bad business in the long term. We really want to get rid of that market. We do not believe that we can change very much how much oil and gas is being demanded by how much we produce in the North Sea. The most important argument for us to continue, from my point of view, is that we are actually using the funding from the extraction of oil and gas, among other things. to create train fund and other things which means that we can accelerate the green transition. So I would very much like to tighten up at international level to ensure that less oil and gas are consumed, i.e. make tight agreements, in relation to reducing consumption of this. But as long as there is a consumption of it, we in the Social Democratic Party have chosen to say that if we stop extraction in the North Sea, it will be extracted elsewhere, and what we do with the North Sea revenue is among other things. to accelerate the green transition at home and invest in public transport, and it is thus a way to use the old-fashioned technology to put the new one in the lake and speed it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163447	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163448	Now I remember that when the North Sea Agreement was concluded, there was a great deal of discussion, and among other things. In the debate on DR 2 there was a discussion about whether it was just tax cuts on which revenue was to be spent, because that was what some other parties in the agreement said. But I am not really so concerned about the extraction that is now, because I am asking about the very thing about continuing the search for new resources, because I am very concerned about that idea. Does the Social Democratic Party believe that we must continue to hunt new resources, in other words to find new areas to put the drilling towers in order to get oil and gas up, or should we leave those resources in the ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163521	There is no doubt that when you look at the activity, both the economic, the jobs and something like that, in the North Sea, you will see that right now there is relatively more in the fossil energy sector and that there is relatively less in the green energy sector. But it is also clear that the movement is, after all, that there is less and less in the fossil and more and more in the green, and that is quite the right development. We aim for the Social Democrats to ensure that what determines when we are done with the production of oil and gas is very much about how quickly we can get rid of the world market, and it is on the understanding that we do not think we are helping the climate by allowing some others to make the oil and gas • others who do not invest their profits in a green transition. And it is true that the government does not agree at all with the Train Fund DK, so we are fighting politically about what we really have to do, also with revenue, but there has been a question on the part of the Social Democrats about that balance, and there is therefore the demand on the world market and therefore the international agreements that have to shut down oil and gas, and it is not Denmark that has to shut down its own production unilaterally, because unfortunately, it is not helping the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163633	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163636	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a very fine speech, which, it can be said, was all else equal to the social democracy's presentation of the climate policy reality, and that is probably what a debate of this kind is for. Sir. Jens Joel was very focused on the fact that we have to act faster in all parts of our society, and we don't, of course, disagree that speed is always crucial in this context. Sir. Jens Joel then found that the government is in it, sir. Jens Joel calls a trail. I guess we're not quite agreed on that. But what I missed in the speech by the Social Democrat rapporteur was a little more about what S is going to speed up. What is the other gear that Social Democrats have? What concrete measures are there on the palette? How, for example, will the Social Democratic Party want to do so? Does it really mean a reduction in methane emissions from Danish dairy cows? Sir. Jens Joel says he wants to join the Social Democratic Party in looking at this and negotiating about it here, but where is it that the Social Democratic Party wants to look?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163751	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163752	Well, there are a number of bids from Aarhus University, from SEGES, from the Climate Council on what to do. And that is all from some very complicated things, which sound simple, about changing feed composition in relation to livestock or more frequent removal of manure or other things that are low-practical, but which I would like the government to make an overview of. If we now all behaved like the farmers who are actually best at this, how much could we actually gain by passing on the good examples of those farmers who are not using them today? I am a little surprised at the fact that there is any climate change at all without having done the initial squats, one might say, in relation to asking what it is that we already know out there. I am a little sad that when there is a debate, the Minister stumbled into an explanation that the only way to reduce emissions from agriculture was to shoot cows. I think that is a little too bad for the debate. That would also be a bit of a pity for the cows, and it would also be a bit of a pity for Danish agriculture. Actually, I don't think that's where we're gonna end up. But if we are not to end up there, we have to ask what we could actually do realistically. And there I do not agree with what I see as the government's way of saying: we do not know anything, therefore we have to wait to do something. Actually, I think we know a lot of things. I have tried to mention a few of them, but I think we have more good experiences out there than the government says out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163922	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163923	Thank you. There are certainly plenty of good experiences. Sir. Jens Joel then mentioned a few himself, feed composition, manure removal, etc. After all, these are both initiatives which are also in the government's plan and which are research initiatives that are already on track. So I still do not really hear such concrete actions from the Social Democratic Party about how it is that the pace should be speeded up. In fact, I have not had time to say that in my first remark I have heard anything about funding from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129163959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164000	But why is it that the government thinks that something belongs in a research trail if we already know that this is a good idea? Then why doesn't it belong in an exchange of best practice tracks? Why, then, does it not belong to the fact that what they do the most and do the best must learn from others? Why is it not in that dialogue with agriculture to get some of the things we already know going on? I agree with the government that we don't know everything yet. I just disagree with the fact that the fact that you don't know everything means that you can't do anything. I think we can get started there, even before we know everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164037	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164039	Thank you. In fact, we know something about agriculture. That is also why there are several initiatives in the programme. But Mr. Jens Joel refers to the fact that you shouldn't just shoot the animals. I don't think that's the answer, no. But what the debate was about is the context that the rapporteur did not mention, namely that I think most climate scientists would agree that the cheapest way in isolation to reduce CO2 so I think it would suit the rapporteur if it were put in the right context, as in perhaps most of the rest of the speech, where the rapporteur only mentions half the truth. Of course, it sounds very fun how much you will have next year of positive effects on electric cars with this new future tax, which is so much the same compared to what we have today. But that is actually what the billalliancen, that is, the Danish Elbil Alliance itself, has wanted: 2 quiet years without new taxes. That is not what has the big effect, but from there we would like to see something forward to 2030, and that is exactly what we are delivering on. What Jens Joel's calculations are all about is exactly what will happen to the charging model... not the many other initiatives we take in the electric car area, with taxi drivers, i.e. climate taxis and climate tracks within lanes, waiting places with climate-friendly taxis, speed charging stations, etc. etc. All these measures are not included in that calculation, and what I am sorry about is that the rapporteur finds the need to say only half the truth and then to have fun in such an important area as the climate agenda. So it would actually suit the rapporteur to tell the whole truth. If I can reach a question, President-in-Office, there is no clock that counts on my screen, as there used to be, I would just like to hear the rapporteur how much money it is that the Social Democrats have set aside for all these green initiatives. We can see that in the last financial bill that was made, there were 0 kroner. Set off. Until the third reading or something like that, a common pool of 3 billion was created. kr. that you could use, depending on the subject you were on the platform to talk about. How much money will be set aside to achieve the objectives that the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164303	I can reassure you that I have a watch up here, and I can say that Mr. Thomas Danielsen has gradually used both his possibilities for comment. For the time being, however, we shall have to hear the answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164315	Thank you. After all, the billions that we had dropped in our financial bill were not something that first arose for the third reading. That is also something we said in the debates on electric cars, as Mr. Thomas Danielsen was also involved. After all, it was not the choice of the Social Democratic Party that we were not involved in the financial law negotiations. It was the government that chose to make a Finance Act with the Danish People's Party, and you are entitled to do so. But the money that we would have liked to have spent some more of in the green area was what we indicated in our financial bill, and Mr. Thomas Danielsen and other dealers in the electric car sector, too, in the weeks and months before, because that is what we had said. A concrete example is that the opposition as a whole also offered that we could make it possible for us to propose to spend some of the money we had jointly put off in the energy conciliation circle, which requires agreement, among other things. For cheaper company cars. And if I am to commend the government, it is in fact my impression that the proposal on cheap company cars, which the Conservatives have also made in the past, and which the government has also included in their climate and air projects, is a very good proposal, as the industry of the Danish Elbil Alliance, etc. It has recently been voted on here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where the government then voted against, despite the fact that it is thus part of the government's policy. I think that is a pity, because it is a small thing, but it is something that the industry also wants and that could boost the electric car market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164442	Thank you. Let's see if the clock works this time. Here you go, sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164446	I think that the whole problem in this is that we are going to talk too little about concrete solutions, because a rapporteur such as Mr Gundelach's report. Jens Joel is so polemical on the platform, for example. When we talk about green company car schemes. It was tragic for me to look at, I thought. For example, we had... The energy agreement negotiations, which, moreover, required us to bring in the Social Democratic Party, and we had to negotiate without them, among other things. The Radicals to get them to the table. That's when we agree that we don't go profiling ourselves on green company cars, because we have an agreement on that. It is clear that we are not running out of that agreement, that is to say that we are not going out and profiling ourselves on green company cars. So we're not gonna go out and say we want green company cars and why doesn't the government want that? That is the line taken by the rapporteur, which I find regrettable rather than the concrete measures that the rapporteur intends to take. And I did not get how much money it took to achieve the objectives referred to by the rapporteur on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164555	Well, the clock must have stopped, I guess. But now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164600	In other words, if we are talking about the concrete proposals on company cars, for example, it is, according to the government's own figures, a relatively small amount of millions. As far as I can remember, it was 15, 20 and 25 million. kr. in the various years that it would cost to make this company car tax, as the industry recommended. They might well have been made up of the state budget which has been put forward for New Year, but we could have found them in the 100 million. kr., we had actually made energy reconciliations. So says Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that we've been profiling that we'd like to do this. Well, now it's part of the Socialist Green initiative that came before we made an energy agreement. So it is not because it becomes secret all of a sudden, after we have made an energy agreement, what the Social Democrats think about things. We meant that before the energy agreement, and of course we meant that after the energy agreement. I am sorry that we have not got it through in the Folketing, because if I count the mandates, then there should be a majority in favour of that particular proposal. But the government voted against it when we tabled it as a small change to the government package.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164703	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129164722	Thank you. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the statement which the Minister sent to Parliament last December. I have read it with great interest. The report provides an excellent overview of what the status is on Danish climate policy, what the goals Denmark has and how they are being achieved. It seems to me to be quite reasonable. Climate challenges are a major global and real challenge, and we must solve our part of the task in Denmark. For this reason, we in Denmark have for many years had a goal that the Danish energy system should go from fossil fuel to renewable energy. In Denmark we have been working together on this task through broad political conciliation on energy and climate policy, and we have also participated in the work as a party in the last three energy agreements. Most recently, all the Danish Parliament's parties entered into a new energy agreement in June last year, where it among other things. It was agreed to build three new offshore wind farms, and in the agreement we are also laying the groundwork for Denmark to get its energy supply from renewable energy even more in the coming years than it is now. For many years, the transition to renewable energy was an expensive strategy to follow, for renewable energy was for many years much more expensive than fossil energy, and it required large subsidies. But in recent years, fortunately, there has been a rapid development of technology, where renewable energy has become much cheaper to produce. In fact, we are faced with the fact that renewable energy will soon be able to outperform fossil energy on price alone. This is a development that we in the Danish People's Party welcome, because not only will we have cheaper and cleaner energy production without climate impact, but we will also achieve that Denmark's dependence on energy imports will be reduced, and we are pleased about that. In the transport sector too, development is moving rapidly. In these years we are seeing a favourable development in which, in particular, hybrid but also electric cars are becoming cheaper and where the scope is significantly improved. Thus hybrid and electric cars have become a real alternative for many Danish car owners, and we can see from the sales figures that the Danes are taking the cars in. If the development continues, I think we will see that the Danes are really taking in hybrid and electric cars, and in combination with the decided electrification of the rail network, we will see that the emissions of CO2 An area of energy and climate policy that we in the Danish People's Party believe is a bit neglected is the effort to save energy. In Denmark, we are actually quite good at reducing our energy consumption, especially the insulation of buildings, and this contributes both to lower energy bills and that energy consumption and thus CO2 Everything else equally benefits a CO2 So we in the Danish People's Party believe that our climate policy should also have a leg called energy savings. Overall, I would like to conclude that with the energy policy pursued, supported by technological developments, we in Denmark are basically heading in the right direction in climate policy, and we look optimisticly at the possibilities that the Danish climate impact will decrease significantly in the years to come. This shows that we can maintain a highly developed society that is supplied with renewable energy without compromising our standard of living. It is in this way that Denmark can be a pioneer country and show the major emitters how the climate challenge can be tackled. Finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following proposals for adoption, and this is what it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that over the past few years there has been a rapid development of technology, where renewable energy has fallen significantly in price, and that there has thus been a decrease in support requirements for renewable energy. Thus, electricity produced with wind turbines and solar cells is now cheaper than energy produced with fossil fuels. This supports the fact that the transition to renewable energy can take place faster and cheaper than expected and that climate policy objectives can be achieved under market conditions. The Danish Parliament also notes that hybrid and electric cars are falling in price and for many now a real alternative to traditional vehicles. Together with increased electrification of the rail network, this development will result in decreasing CO2 Parliament calls on the government to place greater emphasis in energy and climate policy on energy savings and efficiency, since energy that is not used has a better socio-economic effect than switching to renewable energy alone. • V 63).
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165233	Thank you. This proposal is also part of the debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165236	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I actually pressed in because I wanted to acknowledge that the rapporteur had a focus on energy savings, which the Social Democrats share and which I forgot in my rapporteur's speech. So I just want to sign that the Danish People's Party put it on the agenda. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the rapporteur how the Danish People's Party thinks we can best try to trick the government into thinking more about this. In the Social Democratic Party we have proposed that energy saving requirements could be made in all public buildings and not only in the state we have today. It could also be that the rapporteur felt that we should try to land on a target of how much we should reduce, for example. up to 2030 in total or by pool scheme or something. So how could the Danish People's Party best see such a system designed? There is no doubt that what you are running for right now is the EU's absolute minimum requirement, and if we are to support the business community and the competences we have in Denmark, I agree with the Danish People's Party that we can actually have an advantage in going further on the energy savings side than we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165347	Thank you for your recognition of the Social Democrat rapporteur. I would say, then, that a place where we think it would be appropriate to take action is perhaps to put more requirements on the buildings of municipalities and regions and on the energy renovation of them. There, as a public sector, you could take the lead in setting the right example. One of the obstacles to the municipalities' ability to do everything they want is that there is some control of the municipalities' economy from in here. There may be some exceptions in relation to the possibility that energy renovations of buildings might be exempted in some way from the plant ceilings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165427	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165429	Thank you. I think we should continue to work on this in the circle of energy reconciliations that we are fortunately. In relation to transport, what is Dansk Folkeparti's appetite for, or desire for, or attitude about setting a target for how many green cars we would like to roll out on the roads? In any case, I think it may be important to send a political signal that we want to set this movement in motion. The rapporteur himself said that, in relation to technological developments, it is fortunately now suggesting that it will be easier. But will the Danish People's Party be involved in discussing that you could have some goals for how it might look, also on the number side, in relation to green cars in the years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165517	No. I will answer that very clearly. I think it is worrying to have far too square targets for how many of these green cars should be introduced when. You risk having to make some very expensive decisions in order to get a certain number at a certain time. On the other hand, we have been talking for many years about the fact that we think that instead we should focus on redefining the registration system, that is to say the registration tax, so that it favours green cars to a greater extent, in order to attract Danes to more green cars by means of an incentive structure. We believe that this is more the way forward, but so far it has not really won a hearing among the other parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165559	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165601	Thank you very much. I wonder whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is aware of whether there are most refugees in the world fleeing from war, or most refugees fleeing from climate change and lack of resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165615-2	I am not sure that I fully heard what the question was about, but I am aware that there are some who want to move around and migrate to other parts of the world because their living conditions in their home countries are not satisfactory. Some people then call them climate refugees, and it is also possible that some people are fleeing because of bad weather or other natural disasters caused by the climate. But we do not think that this is something that means that we in Denmark should accept these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165647	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165648	I know there are more refugees today who are fleeing from climate change and lack of resources, and the Radical and the Danish People's Party can agree that the fewer refugees in the world, the better. However, if we are concerned about fewer refugees, should we not be more concerned that we are doing something about what is causing people to move in earnest and move towards Europe, namely climate change? Should not every effort be made to slow down the development of more refugees in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165718	Well, I share Mrs Auken's ambition that there should be fewer refugees in the world, because it is never for pleasure that you flee, on the contrary. So it should preferably be avoided that there are some who end up in that situation. But I also believe that with the climate policy that we are pursuing here in the Danish Parliament and of which the Danish People's Party is also a part, we are trying to address Denmark's share of the climate challenge. Denmark cannot solve it alone, but we can lead by example, as I mentioned in my speech, by setting up a modern society in which we do not compromise on the standard of living and, at the same time, reduce our CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165756	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165758	Well, I also think it's relevant to get into this with climate refugees. If it is the case that in every country in the world we do not take climate problems seriously, then it is that the IPPC says that there may be several hundred million refugees coming extra. Not because of war, but because of climate change. The rapporteur said that saving energy might not have been included very well in government policy, and I think the rapporteur is actually right about that. In the energy agreement there are some elements where there must be a call for tenders, i.e. who can implement the most energy savings in the cheapest way, but I think that there will be an overlooked area left. The rapporteur then mentions that it might be making demands on municipalities and regions, and he himself mentions that it should then be the ceiling on installations, which one should be allowed to break. This would mean that a large number of municipalities with money in their pockets could implement sensible projects and make up for the maintenance deficit, which there are in many places. [Sound emission]. Now it's on again). Well, thank you. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that it might be that it was the construction ceiling that had to be broken. Does the rapporteur see outlines of where it is to be negotiated? Is it in the energy reconciliation circle, or where is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165920	It wasn't something I did, but it actually hit time pretty well when the microphone turned off. Just for friendly orientation. Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165922	So I have to make it clear that I did not call for anyone to break plant ceilings. I believe that plant ceilings must be respected. But I called for a decision to be made in here to look a little more flexibly at the plant ceiling, i.e. what is to be expected, for example. So that was one way to do it. But there are plenty of opportunities to negotiate things into different agreements, so I cannot put my finger on that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129165953	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170000	On the basis of the rapporteur's knowledge of some of the local authorities, I would like to hear about the issue of working on energy savings in district heating, for example. if you arrived at low temperature solutions in larger urban areas. For that can only be achieved if the overall building stock is in a reasonable condition. Then you can centrally turn down the temperature and lower the wiring loss and thus save energy. Can the rapporteur see the outlines that we can build on the energy conciliation and, like, ensure that there could be energy savings in this way, so that we could promote such solutions in a very good way by taking some additional decisions that can be added to the energy agreement we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170032	In other words, the energy agreement does not exclude, as I remember, that more decisions can be taken. So let's see what the options are for that at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170045	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170047	I am actually just a little curious to hear whether the Danish People's Party believes that we are doing enough in relation to the climate crisis. As we could hear, the Minister thinks that we are on the way with the energy conciliation and the climate plan presented by the government this autumn. That's so little of a different interpretation you get from the Climate Council. But where do the Danish People's Party think we stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170111	We think that in Danish politics in general, through the settlements and agreements we make here in the Folketing, we address the problem and deal with it. After all, we have been working for many years to replace our fossil energy production with renewable energy, and this is a direction that continues, and even at even greater speed, in the future. At the same time, the transport sector is also moving towards electrifying it. So I absolutely believe that we are moving in the right direction. Of course, technology needs to continue to develop so that we can reap even greater gains in the future. Technology has evolved throughout the history of mankind, but precisely in the field of energy, it has actually gone very fast in the last 5 to 10 years, and there is no indication that this development will stop. So, yes, I think we are going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170208	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170209	I just have to understand it correctly: it is the technology that has to do the rest; there is no need for political action in order for us to act in relation to the climate crisis that is now when we read the UN climate panel report of October last year on what really needs to be done. It's just the technology that fixes it while we're looking at, or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170227	It must be understood in this way that, of course, the world has not stopped. There will, of course, remain new technology developments that we must reap the benefits of, and the energy agreement that we concluded six months ago almost a year ago will only last a certain number of years in the future, and then hopefully a new agreement will have to be negotiated. For, of course, there must be new policy measures, and it is wise to wait until the time when we know our situation and the level of technology we have at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170302	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Thomas Danielsen, to speak. I would just kindly draw attention to the fact that there is a watch here that actually works. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170314	Thank you, sir. President. With the climate policy statement, we make the tradition faithful to the Danish climate action both nationally and internationally. 2018 was a climate policy year out of the ordinary. The government brought together all the parties of the Folketing on a long-term and ambitious energy agreement. It contains everything from three new offshore wind farms, 4.2 billion. kr. to the technologically neutral expansion of renewable energy, the reduction of electricity and electric heating charges, the modernisation of the heating sector for the benefit of consumers and the green transition, the strengthening of energy and climate research and much, much more. It is a really good agreement that ensures the Danes as much green energy as possible for the money, while at the same time benefiting Danish exports of energy-efficient solutions. In addition, the government played out as the first government in Denmark with a separate plan for the climate, which reduces greenhouse gas emissions and ensures the Danes cleaner air, because we will win the climate race, and therefore the non-quota sectors are also an important place to address. By 2030, the last new petrol and diesel car will be sold, and no city buses or taxis will be allowed to air pollution. In addition, we set aside among others. 80 million kr. For electric car charging stations, greener cars provide advantages over so-called black cars and lower taxation on green company cars. On the agricultural side we set aside among other things. 90 million kr. for research into reducing emissions from agriculture, a pool that has just been opened last week and which will go to sustainable land use, climate protection of farms, stables, etc. and climate-friendly food production. Since 1990, agriculture has managed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ammonia emissions, while production has actually increased. That development must, of course, be sustained and strengthened, and the green solutions in agriculture are therefore crucially important. These are precision agriculture, biogas, land distribution, etc. It is a great victory for our climate that, with the Energy Agreement and the Climate Plan, we are now laying the way and funding to meet our targets for 2030 and 2050. 2018 has been a landmark in Danish energy policy in many ways. On the basis of the 2017 agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party on technology-neutral tenders, we were able to write energy policy Danish history in December. This happened by letting the sun and wind compete to deliver as much green energy as possible for the money. This led to an unprecedented price revolution, where the aid was on average 2.28 cents per year. kWh for the winning bid, which is as much as six times lower than it was on the old 25 øre scheme. In 2019 we will have another technology-neutral tender, and then we can be pleased that the remaining parties have now seen what success it has been and have therefore agreed to allocate 4.2 billion. kr. from 2020 to 2024 for even more technology-neutral tenders and an even more cost-effective green transition. The result of our technology-neutral offerings resonates internationally, and the Danish climate effort must continue to be among the most ambitious in the world. In the European Union, common ground and strong cooperation are essential if the Paris Agreement is to be achieved and achieved. And, of course, Denmark continues to push for a higher level. We have among other things. work for an EU target of 32%. renewable energy by 2030 and 32.5%; improving energy efficiency. We have succeeded, and both in the European Union and here at home we are working towards a target of a net emissions of 0 by 2050. At home we will, among other things: the allocation of EUR 100 million; kr. for research into the absorption and storage of CO2 We have many good green initiatives to build on, and I look forward to even more both globally and nationally, and in those words, on behalf of the Left, Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I will read out a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction the result of COP24, which sets out the rules of the Paris Agreement. This is an important step in the implementation of the agreement, which includes: ensure real global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, the Danish Parliament looks very seriously at the IPCC's 1.5-degree report and in this context acknowledges the government's efforts to increase global climate action. The Government should work to ensure that Denmark continues to fulfil its international obligations and makes its contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the government has taken a number of important steps with the climate and air emissions. The Folketing urges the government to work to continue an ambitious green transition to make Denmark a climate-neutral society by 2050 at the latest. The Danish Parliament recognises the progress made both within the EU and under the auspices of the UN to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions and therefore calls on the government to continue its active work internationally. • V 64).
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170927	Thank you. It is part of the negotiations. And now there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129170933	Thank you. It is an exciting proposal for adoption and it is exciting what can be gathered around a possible majority. I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur mentions that there is something called the Paris Agreement, and then the rapporteur also mentions in his speech that there is something in the government's proposal on climate and hot air. One point is that it accumulated over 10 years actually has an effect of 1.1 million. a. So in round numbers it's 0.1 million. We have a total of 11 million farms per year. a. And you don't want to do anything seriously until 2030, and then you talk about the fact that you're still saying it's going to be a zero-emission society by 2050. This means that we have an agriculture to reduce its CO2 tonnes by 2030 to 0 by 2050. Can the rapporteur not see that it would be an advantage for us to achieve something more towards 2030 if it were to be a realistic option?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171039	In other words, it is not the case that agriculture should not contribute anything or contribute more towards 2030. However, we have the particular challenge in relation to the non-quota sector, that we have a large number of initiatives and concrete instruments that we can use actively to reduce emissions to the non-quota sector in transport, but we do not have a large number of instruments and mechanisms that we can screw up in relation to our food production. There are, however, more, and we also have them in our climate action. But that doesn't change the fact that there aren't these low-hanging fruits, so much of them also revolve around research in this area, precisely because agriculture is one of our major challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171131	Well, it is good that the rapporteur mentions that agriculture must contribute, and there are ways in which agriculture can contribute. And I see it as an opportunity to model EU agricultural support by increasing rural funds up to 15%. This will result in 700 million. kr., which one can use to reward the part of agriculture that does something that has a climate effect. It could, for example, be done. be these low-lying areas, which have a huge CO2 Why not give the farmers maybe 1,000 kroner. in order to have it as permanent grass, in other words give a subsidy from rural funds? Does the rapporteur not see that we could use part of our rural funds more targeted by increasing them and then targeting them with environmental action and getting a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171217	So, I can hear that it is slightly different, depending on whether the rapporteur is on the platform as Enhedslisten's rural rapporteur or as Enhedslisten's climate rapporteur. Because when the rapporteur is on the platform as the Enhedslisten's rural rapporteur, the rapporteur talks about using rural funds in rural areas and taking them away from agriculture, and now I understand that, as climate rapporteur, they are supposed to be used in climate action in agriculture. I guess that's how much swings. But there is no doubt that the reason why we have just written these low-level soils into our climate scenario is that there is a great potential there. So I do not really agree very much, however, with the funding proposal, with the Enhedslisten, that there is a great potential that we must actively pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171303	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171305	Now it's actually possible, just to defend sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, both to do something that benefits rural areas, and to set aside farmland if you do it wisely and help to do other things on those lands such as: hunting, haydog, tourism. There are plenty of options if you do it wisely. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I would like to ask the rapporteur if it does not upset an economically responsible rapporteur such as Mr Beazley's report. Thomas Danielsen, that you need over 1 billion. kr. a year buying paper in other countries rather than doing something at home. When we know that we have to do all this at home, it is not too bad that we waste a lot of years and spend over a billion. kr. a year buying quotas and indulging in other countries first?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171347	Well, I'm just pointing out that you can only spend the money once, and here Enhedslisten was spending the money twice or at least in two different ways. There is no doubt that low-level soils have great potential, it is also an expensive solution, but that is one of the things we have just set aside money to look at. The reason why we have some opportunities in the European Union in relation to CO2 is a challenge that the European Union is aware of and, of course, recognises, and that is why it is not just a snapshot solution that we can use.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171444	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171445	The rapporteur is right to say that the money can only be spent once, and that is to say that the billions that you spend to pay someone else to do something cannot be used in Denmark to help the Danish agricultural sector become more efficient. Would it not be much better to spend that money to help the Danish agricultural sector achieve what we know we have to achieve rather than spend the money buying something in other countries? I just think it seems really weird that you don't spend the money at home doing something we know we should have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171513	We have the challenge of delivering on these climate initiatives, and of course we are happy to do so. If we then lean on the Environmental Economic Council, they actually point out that the solution the government is making here is one of the most cost-effective. So yes, that solution is cost-effective. Mrs Ida Auken is so focused on Denmark's climate accounting, but the climate challenges of the planet cannot be used for much. Therefore, we are actually picking the lowest hanging fruits with this model, which is made by the government, for the benefit of the entire climate of the planet and not just Denmark's climate accounting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171551	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171553	Thank you. With the government and the 2050 targets of the Left, how long does the Left think we should continue the search for new oil and gas resources in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171608	It is, of course, part of the energy agreement that the alternative itself supports that the oil and gas resources that we have in our subsoil also play an important role in financing the green transition. So I cannot stand by and give anyone the backside when we are not to extract more resources from the underground, but there is no doubt that if we do not extract them ourselves, we are currently dependent on some countries on which we do not want to rely in purely foreign policy. Therefore, it is both economic and security policy a better business, and then it is actually a business that helps to finance the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171652	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171653	I would now like to call on the rapporteur to read the agreement again, because what is in the agreement is, in fact, simply that some other parties have an agreement on the North Sea, not that it is part of the energy agreement. However, when you have the target of 2050, does the rapporteur think that the search for new resources can continue in 2021 as well? How long are we going to continue chasing new resources, sucking oil and gas out of the underground when we now hear the targets presented by the government and the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171724	In other words, I cannot give an end date for when it is not appropriate, both for the security situation and the socio-economic situation and for the sake of the climate, for us to extract some of those resources ourselves. I'm afraid I can't deliver that to the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171740	With that, we thank Mr. Thomas Danielsen, and then we'll make room for mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129171756	There is growing concern among the population over the climate problems of the planet. There are some increased expectations of politicians. We have seen UN climate experts say very clearly in their last IPCC report that we have a 10-12 year to seriously reverse developments, so we have a chance to stay below 11⁄2 degree average temperature increase on our planet. Without significant action in all countries, we are facing hundreds of millions of climate refugees, floods, droughts, famines and loss of biodiversity. I would like to thank the green organisations that are initiators of the citizens' proposal, which now require a Danish climate law. Yes, we do have a climate law, but they then come up with a proposal that we should do better. And what is the content of what is being signed is that Denmark should make its contribution to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Five-year milestones must be set for at least 15 years; climate considerations must be integrated into other policies; the Climate Council must be strengthened and guaranteed independence; Denmark must be committed to the development of green solutions, and Denmark must be a driving force in international climate policy. And here is a suggestion that you spend 5 billion a year. This is the positive agenda that over 47 000 people have signed in less than 14 days. In a short time, more than 50,000 people under 2 weeks of age will have signed the demand for a new climate law. The Enhedslisten is looking forward to the examination of the proposal and we will vote in favour of it. The citizens' proposal gives Denmark the opportunity to come back in the development of the green solutions. I hope that Parliament quickly gets the proposal on the agenda and does not jam it up after an election. There are school elections this week and there are many young people who rightly think that the climate struggle is the most important thing. I fully agree with them. It is their future and the future of the next many generations that is at stake. Young people who do not yet have the right to vote are calling for a school strike on Friday. I hope that many will participate. It is necessary for the people to stand together and shout out the politicians. Much more action is needed to keep the temperature of the planet below 11⁄2 degrees. In the Folketing, an energy agreement has been concluded between all parties. It is an agreement that is far better than the government's proposal for negotiations. We will have three large offshore wind farms by 2030 instead of the one proposed by the government. Overall, we are going to have CO2 tonnes lowered. The Enhedslisten will, after an election, if it gives a different majority, press for building something on top of that energy agreement. There will be solar cells on municipal buildings and solar cells in all housing associations that renovate their roofs. We need to make sure that solar energy fills up more. There have been expectations of the government's climate and hot air project that it would be a negotiating proposal for some major discussions on the increased climate effort, but I think that the government has completely failed and only called for negotiations on electric cars and the country an agreement that now only provides an extra 150 electric cars in 2019. I think it is quite ridiculous compared to the million electric cars in 2030 that the Prime Minister fantasized about at the opening of the Folketing, but which he and the government apparently have no concrete proposals for how to become a reality. The government's proposal came in October, and it is proposed to set up two commissions, one to look at traffic, and another to look at CO2 and then what happened? Did the government set up the two commissions? No, you haven't. You haven't ordered the good advice. This really shows you don't want any more action. You could choose to listen to good advice from the Environmental Economic Council, but that advice bothers the government by transferring it to Horsens. The employees won't move in, so the government has the prospect that we'll get less advice this year. And the Climate Council would prefer to close down and move far away from Christiansborg; instead, it came to a firing of the Climate Council chairman after the council made a fair criticism of the government's lack of climate action. The Enhedslisten will implement a climate policy that reduces Denmark's CO2 emissions by 70%. By 2030. It is a huge task, a reduction of 20 million. t which is possible and necessary. We will switch society to a zero-emission society by 2040 • 10 years before the government's goal. This can only be done by reducing the large CO2 t. And I think that we should listen to the Environmental Economic Council, which, as such, has come up with a model for a CO2 we need to reduce animal production and reduce agricultural land. It must provide room for much more forest, nature and energy forest, and it can ensure drinking water and provide more recreational areas and better biodiversity. There are great advantages in reducing the million hectares now used for pig feed for excessive Danish pig production. And there are benefits for animal welfare, drinking water and the aquatic environment by converting agriculture to 100%. organic farming. Sustainable society is a better society with good jobs in the context of conversion, huge export opportunities, clean drinking water, a clear conscience and security for future generations. Enhedslisten will switch the transport. We need better and cheaper public transport, and we need to embark on the major transition to electric cars, where it will be necessary to change taxes and introduce road pricing as part of car taxes. Yes, it is complicated to change the reasonable taxation of private carism, but it is necessary. I would like to thank all the many people who use the bike daily, it is the most climate-friendly transport. We must ensure better conditions for cyclists and promote the combination of public transport and bicycle use. Fortunately, much is happening with regard to climate focus outside Christiansborg. I would like to thank those people who are considering how they can reduce their CO2 It is important which holiday trips you choose, what you eat, how you transport in daily life, how much energy you use in your home and how low a material consumption you can live with. Thanks to the municipalities that have a climate objective and work systematically to become CO2 There are so many that I will not mention anyone. However, dear municipalities, you still have a major task in reducing waste incineration and phasing out both coal and imported biomass. Thanks to organisations that will inspire and require climate solutions. Thank you to the co-owned energy companies that choose to invest on a large scale in renewable energy, which work targeted on energy savings and which ensure a well-functioning electricity network. And thank you to that part of the business community that is on the green agenda and takes the UN's global goals seriously if the government did the same thing. This year and in the future, the necessary policy is an ambitious climate policy. At the rate of the government, 100 years is too long before we reach a zero-emission society. We need a parliamentary election and it must be a climate election so that the people can put together a redder and greener parliament that can pursue the necessary climate policy. The Enhedslisten is 100% ready to choose the right solutions together with a new majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129172612	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129172614	Thank you. I was actually having a deja vu like this, you might say, or thought of the upcoming Oscars. Thanks are always given to the right and to the left, and I suppose that is also true, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen did. In fact, I would like to thank you for continuing in that direction. Søren Egge Rasmussen too. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur for recognising the efforts being made around Denmark and, as far as I have just heard, internationally in the area of climate change. I think that is actually a good agenda to have. And we also received some concrete proposals from the rapporteur, I think as the first rapporteur I have heard from the platform so far, about how it is that the pace at home might have to be increased. I heard, among other things. CO2 And it's really nice to have some concrete suggestions for that. The fact that we may not be entirely in agreement then is something else. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen also praised the authors of the citizens' proposal for a climate bill that has been put forward, and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen read some of the elements from the citizen's proposal, among others. This is about the development of green solutions. Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen not that we in Denmark actually rely on the development of green solutions? Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen doesn't really mean that Danish companies at home are some of the world's best at developing new green solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129172755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129172756	Yes, they are in the field of energy. A lot is happening, but you are also dependent on something happening in Denmark. It is therefore gratifying that we have reached an energy agreement which has three offshore wind farms instead of just one proposed by the government. It would also be good if we could do something that exploits the export potential of the Danish district heating sector. Well, there are some potentials that haven't been realized yet, and that annoys me, because they're there. Then I'd like to apologize for not having everyone thanked me. I lacked to thank the pension companies, which also occasionally invest in renewable energy in Denmark. Well, it's kind of important that there's capital being invested in this transition, and there we have some opportunities through our housing associations and pension companies and co-owned energy companies etc. I mentioned a few specific things in my speech: yes. We are in favour of a CO2 but we would like to do so in a model in which we return some funds to agriculture so that they can afford to make that conversion. And we will soon come up with a good proposal on that. And yes, road pricing is part of the solution. It is not easy simply to say that we are changing the whole traffic and losing 50 billion. kr. in government revenue per year. You have to find sources of income in a different way. We have a bid for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129172913	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129172913-2	Thank you. We're in a thank-you mood, you might say, at least for a little while. I would like to say that I forgot to thank Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen said that Enhedslisten is part of the energy agreement that we entered into last June. I think that's really nice. I know, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has been a little sad that he was not invited to all the negotiating meetings in this regard. And you can at least say that's not something I want to wear on my cape. But I'm just happy and would like to thank Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Enhedslisten to also be part of the Energy Agreement. Then Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also equal investments, in connection with that we talked about green solutions and Danish companies developing green solutions. Could there perhaps actually be an opportunity for the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance to form a new alliance in the Folketing on business investment opportunities when we talk about green technology?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173010	Maybe as a thank-you alliance. Here you go, sir. rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173011	Thank you for the question. I believe that one of the places where we could turn up is in the Danish Green Investment Fund, which actually helps to convey a great many investments. Perhaps not in secret, but I think that we could turn up the number of billions that the Green Investment Fund must borrow out. I think there should be more focus on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173040	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments, and the next rapporteur is on his way to the platform now. It's sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173100	Thank you for the floor to the President and thank the Minister for a very fine and detailed statement. After all, we have now become accustomed to this for a number of years when we have the climate policy debate on the government's statement. So I might actually start somewhere a little different from saying thank you. Because I would actually like to make an admission to all of you rapporteurs in this Chamber today and to all of the parties of the Folketing and then, of course, to all the voters. Because I have been wrong about climate policy in Denmark. That's a big admission. I have been wrong about climate policy in Denmark. I have said in the past about energy policy, and also about the recent energy agreement, that a good agreement is not necessarily a broad agreement. So it is the content of the agreement that determines the quality, not the number of mandates behind it. However, the agreement is stronger, if there is, one might say, a substantial weight of mandates behind it. Since I have said so, the Prime Minister himself has also reiterated a similar point of view, and the statement is, of course, still valid in general terms in politics. But I've changed my mind. I have not changed my mind, I have changed my position and, as you probably know, you have a position until you take a new one. And now I do. Because when it comes to climate and energy policy, which is today all-dominant and pervasive in politics, I do not believe that the above-mentioned principle is any longer valid. In climate policy, we actually have to bow to each other and get the ends to reach together and hold on to each other. We owe it to the electorate, and we owe it to the people. After all, we could also do that with the energy agreement of June 2018; an agreement that all the parties of the Danish Parliament are involved in. Now, then, we just have to have all the parties to vote for the initiatives we have agreed. It does not necessarily have to be wholehearted that we vote in favour, but at least we owe it to each other and again to the people and voters that we all vote in favour of the content of the energy agreement when we agree on it. The Liberal Alliance was not part of the 2012 Energy Agreement, but the new Energy Agreement, on the basis of our government participation, has helped shape it from the very beginning. First of all, in the form of the government's initiative, and later in the negotiations, we helped to keep the ends together and the final agreement, which, as I said, includes all the parties of the Folketing, including ourselves, which was not part of the 2012 agreement and the alternative, which was then not represented at all in the Danish Parliament in 2012. This may not be quite the liberal solution here, with uniform framework conditions, technology neutrality, stricter international product standards, a hundred percent market-based green transition, etc. etc. Fortunately, this is not going to be the hottest dream of the alternative on the issue of the taxation of air travel and beef. And that is how I think climate policy is best: a consensus where no one gets their hottest dreams fulfilled, but where everyone is on the table throughout the decision-making process. This is true at national level in Denmark, but indeed also internationally, and for Denmark, first and foremost in the European Union. Denmark is quite well involved in meeting our international objectives. The low fruitage of the green conversion is initially picked in the energy sector, and now it is especially the case of green conversion of transport and, as far as possible, also of agriculture. Those fruits are just hanging a little further up, and in the first place we need a ladder that we have to climb up and down every time we have to pick an apple. At least until we have found new ways and new technology for the green transition in the sectors mentioned. However, the government has the objective of converting our passenger cars to greener transport, and the Liberal Alliance has funding, at least funding, to completely abolish the registration fee for green cars as early as tomorrow. And who else has this in the Folketing? Denmark must conduct its climate policy through the European Union, and we do so very much already, but we must make that even more significant. It must be even more significant that Denmark sets that agenda at EU level and that the EU puts it on a global agenda. The pace must rise and international regulation must be tightened up. For people affects the climate with the CO2 Climate Agenda is important now and for many, many years to come. It takes far-reaching action to meet the challenges posed by global warming. And there is all the more reason why international political framework conditions should be established and that we should then allow the market to drive the transition to a net zero-emission society; the net zero-emission society, which we in Denmark at least agree on so far. Climate change concerns all of us, and no one can report by. Our goal in the Liberal Alliance is solid conciliation, where action is based on consensus among responsible parties rather than on fighting and clashes in the domestic political battlefield. To this end, the issue and climate are too important. The Liberal Alliance takes note of the government's statement and supports the adoption text which was previously read by the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173839	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173842	Thank you. I understand that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is very concerned about this consensus that is in the agreements. I am therefore rather curious whether the Liberal Alliance also believes that there is consensus on the UN climate panel report of October, namely the 1.5-degree report, and then the action we are seeing with the energy agreement and the climate and air plan that came from the government. Is there a consensus between the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129173913	Yes, there is consensus insofar as a plan has been put forward and funding has also been set out. And as I said myself in my speech, and as the Minister also mentioned, more needs to be done. New initiatives must be taken in the future. We have stocktakes and I think it's called, I just don't know what the Danish word is for it.But we have to look down the deal again after a few years and again some years after that etc.; that is to say, take new initiatives. We must do so in agreement. Fortunately, we now have a broad energy agreement, of which all the parties of the Folketing are part, and we can sit down in that circle and take stock of how technology development, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174017	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174017-2	But is not what we see in the autumn report precisely that action is needed now and that it is not in a few years' time and that we should not wait another period and look at it a little more if it is that we have to achieve the 1.5-degree target? We often hear that we do a lot, but I'm really curious to know if that's enough. That's the party's position I'm looking for. Are we gonna do enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174043-2	Yes, I think that with the energy agreement we have concluded and with the government's climate change proposals, we are actually quite good about it. After all, we can see in relation to the international objectives that Denmark is committed to, that we are overfulfilling and are really, really good with in this respect. International action is also quite important here, because the fact that we can get our neighbouring countries and partners in the European Union to work together more globally is what is really going on. And when you look at the curves contained in the government statement, you can always discuss what level of steepness should be now. And you can see, if you look back in time, that there isn't a straight line from point A to point B when we're talking about CO2 There are jumps on the curve, and that's one of them. the development of technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174141	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174146	Now the rapporteur mentioned that the low-hanging fruits had been harvested, and now it became so little more difficult. And the government's proposal is that you patch up some leaky biogas plants, you use a little duct tape there. It must also be said that it is quite a low-hanging fruit to have a functioning biogas plant that you close holes on. I now think that one of the lowest hanging fruits, which has not been picked up yet, is a fruit that, so to speak, is just below the surface: these low bottom areas, which have a huge potential if we did not plow them. You don't have to have the government's new commission to sort out how much CO2 it's sort of worked out. And we have an opportunity to model our EU subsidies in such a way that rural funds are raised from 7%. 15%. Then there will be a little extra money in that pool, and then you would be able to reward farmers who did not plow those lands but instead had permanent grass. It would have a huge climate effect. Does the rapporteur not see that we have some opportunities to simply model the EU rural funds and then exploit the potentials there? That would be a low-hanging fruit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174256	Thank you and thank you for the question. I have now noticed for some time that when the questioner asks his questions, it is always a question of whether, as rapporteur on the platform, I can see that is a rather funny wording. I can't stop pulling on the smile tape. My eyesight is still fine, I can tell you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. It is quite true that there is also a relatively low-hanging fruit when we talk about low-bottom areas. It's quite evident. It costs money. The government has already allocated some money to land distribution. Whether or not we should do it further is one of the things that we, among others, are doing. continuously could talk about in the energy reconciliation circle as time passes. We can see if there's a technology jump in any other way. It could be that some people invented a machine tomorrow that could draw CO2 but it is a tool that the government is already using and that you can then turn up or down, depending on whether you can find funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174419	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174420	In other words, I can come up with a solution to the economics of the EU funds. I think it is really very easy. It's just a plow you have to leave in the barn and not use. It's pretty low-tech: not doing a job, and then you have permanent grass, and you solve a problem • amazing! Then maybe you can have some livestock that can graze it off. Well, how hard can it be? I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. There is talk that there are some obligations and so on. I think, as if the Liberal Alliance were talking about it as an obligation, that could be a disadvantage. I really think that in this climate change age it is an advantage that you have some obligations and some things that you develop and then you can export them. Can the rapporteur not see the perspective of having good obligations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174513	Well, the rapporteur's vision still does not fail, and I am also very glad that it does not. Is it a disadvantage, or is it an advantage? So, what's an advantage in this is that these framework conditions are set internationally. They are set at EU level as a minimum for Denmark, so that it does not distort competition for Danish farmers or for Danish companies. So it would be possible to say that it would be an advantage for Danish companies. What is crucial is that it does not distort competition, so that we can just move CO2 out of Denmark, perhaps even to countries completely outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174603	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129174617	In recent years, the climate agenda has emerged, it can be said that climate has become totally mainstream, and that is good for business, because then it is that we are all preoccupied with it. Violent weather phenomena all over the globe have been an eye-opener and given the experience of what the climate crisis means with heat waves, floods, forest fires, etc. It's the new normal that we have to deal with. Unfortunately, however, when something becomes mainstream, it often becomes a little empty, and that is why we have heard more and more fine words and talk about the climate, but unfortunately nothing about the absolutely necessary political action that needs to be taken. And this contrasts slightly with what you see on the streets, not just in Copenhagen, but throughout the world, where schoolchildren walk the streets; it has been great week after week to see the pictures from Brussels. We have the climate reminder, which stands out here in front of Christiansborg every Thursday morning to remind us all that all politics is climate policy. And then we have the citizen's proposal that others before me talked about, and when I got up from my chair it was just over 47,000 citizens who had signed it, we need a climate law. These are very concrete proposals, and that is fantastic. But also the proposals that need to be followed by action are quite specific actions, which are not just fine words, which are not just intentions, but actually want us to make the necessary change in our society. The same can be said of the autumn report of the UN Panel on Climate Change. Again: We can all read it, we can see the seriousness, but what about the action? I am sometimes told that I have to stop making doomsday scenarios, but frankly I have to say that the doomsday scenarios come precisely from a lack of action while hope comes through the action. When I read the government's climate policy statement, I was delighted because the Minister acknowledges the 1.5-degree climate panel report; I think it is reproduced very credible, especially the point about the fact that limiting the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees will require very, very fast and comprehensive system conversion in a very short space of time, and that is in all sectors of society. But it must also have consequences when one finds it in a report. That's right. What, then, is the consequence of this? And that's just what we need to see. Last week the alternative had been invited to an alternative climate parliament down in the Common Assembly. There was a crowded Common Hall, and we had given them a task in the Chamber we had seen competition put it out from in here and they were asked to make a text for adoption. They were led by six rapporteurs, who did not represent parties, but various areas in the climate area, for which we thought there should be talk. It was Jesper Theilgaard who represented the vulnerable island states; it was Tor Nørretranders who represented the generation without a voice yet; it was Frederik Roland of the Green Student Movement who represents the youth; it was the author Charlotte Weitze who spoke on behalf of Danes who wants to live climate-friendly; it was Lea Korsgaard who represented the critical public, and it was Knud Romer who was to represent the climate-concerned Danish majority. The six rapporteurs were then required to be mandated by Parliament to negotiate a text, it was done in a group work, and it was possible to negotiate a text, but it was quite interesting to follow the fight that is about words: what is going in, and if one word is going in, another must go out? Completely as when we sit in here negotiating our proposal for adoption: what exactly is the point we want to make? It is really easy to say a lot of words that need to be included, but very difficult to remove words. In fact, I found it inspiring to have them sit and do so, because when I look at what is happening in climate policy right now from the government and from the Folketing, I do not think that is good enough. And that's why such a call like what we sometimes get from the school kids, what we get on Thursday morning, and what we tried to get through this is something we need, because we need to open our eyes and think about whether we are doing it well enough. We must have challenged the premise of the climate debate, which is all too often about the cancellation of CO2 etc., and which is not at all about what this really should be about, namely ethics and love for our planet, about having the courage and imagination to adapt us radically differently and regain respect for our planet. So the proposal for adoption they made, I will read it a little later. This also means that we are not co-sponsors of the proposal for adoption proposed by the rest of the opposition, although, of course, we quite agree that the government's climate action is slowing down the pace of change. It is not just something that the opposition parties think it is, in this way, the Climate Council that says it quite clearly. So we don't think that's a bad text at all. This is actually something we can easily see ourselves voting in favour of if our own proposal is voted down when it comes to voting on the proposals for adoption. Allow me to repeat myself, because the Minister for Climate Affairs does, in fact. I skidded some climate policy statements, I was just reading them from the last few years, the ones we have had since the Paris Agreement. With a slightly different wording it says in all of them: the Paris Agreement was a historic turning point, but much more effort needs to be made from all the countries of the world if we are to limit global warming. It is the same thing that they say, but we see nothing about the action, and that is where we have to go now: we dare take the political steps that need to be taken. It is not enough to talk about wind turbines, it is not enough to talk about electric cars. We need to talk about how to bring about the transformation of our entire society. What is it that we do not submit to the climate agenda an economic agenda, etc. etc.? That is why we have tabled a proposal from the Alternative today that we should have a decommissioning plan for oil and gas production in the North Sea over a period of ten years. We believe that it is a completely crucial debate and discussion to take and hopefully also something we can agree on, because we simply cannot keep sucking up every drop of resources from our underground. We have signed in the Paris agreement that we will do everything we need to do, and one of the things is to stop doing so, because it sends a really strong signal to all the other countries that we want to point our finger at. But you cannot stand and point at others and say that they must limit their production of oil and gas when you pull the oil out of the underground yourself. The greatest threat that we see there is to the objectives of the Paris Agreement is the discrepancy between scientific recommendations on how to halt the climate crisis and then the inadequate climate plans of individual countries and regions. So, according to the United Nations, we have to fivefold the pace if we are to achieve this 1.5-degree target. Action is therefore urgently needed. We need to turn an agreement into a policy. And then for the proposal for adoption, which was created by the Climate Parliament last week, which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The climate crisis is Denmark's chance to build a new, visionary, sustainable social model. We must have the courage and imagination to seize that opportunity. The social model requires an ethical change in which we work for a way of life, production and development that takes responsibility for future generations because it is based on a natural view of respect and care. We must make it easier and cheaper to live climate-friendly, and pollution must be priced. Green education must permeate all aspects of the education system in lifelong learning. Green considerations must be taken into account in all public institutions. Sustainable local communities must be promoted. Denmark must support sustainable trade with the countries that want the Paris Agreement and introduce the world's most ambitious 2030 targets, which are updated every two years and meet at least the recommendations of the IPCC. Denmark must work towards a legally binding definition of climate refugees. Don't let anyone else solve the problem, we're society. We can make it because we want to. • V 65).
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175539	Thank you, it is also part of the further negotiations, so we are well on the way to making statements here. There are brief comments, and that is first Mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175548	Thanks to the rapporteur from the Alternative, and in fact much praise for the process I now do not remember what you called in the Alternative the process that apparently took place in the Common Assembly and with a number of rapporteurs for various perspectives on the climate agenda. In fact, I think that is a very good idea, which could potentially have come out of something concrete. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist wanted more than fine words and good intentions. I actually tried to listen carefully, as that proposal for adoption, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist read out, like was delivered, and I found it hard to hear much more than fine words and good intentions in it. But respect for the process. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist also hopes for more concrete action from the government. I'm sure it was. But perhaps Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist just try to be a little bit more specific about what it really is, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist himself is doing and what the Alternative itself is doing in concrete terms to increase the pace or what it is aiming at in relation to climate policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175714	I would actually agree with the questioner. I sat there and thought that when I got the proposal, because, as I said, we were not involved in sitting and negotiating it, it was these people who were supposed to sit and do it, but when I started reading it again, I could actually see a number of pretty concrete things: in terms of our trade policy, how it should be converted, if we are to live up to this proposal for adoption; in terms of how we should treat the people who are on the run because of climate change; and then there is the whole pricing of pollution, it is a CO2 So there is actually quite a lot of concrete in it, but it is just not written in the language in which we are used to writing. What do we want? After all, we have presented a 2030 climate plan, which we made in the autumn, and where we are going in concrete terms to look at what needs to be done in relation to agriculture and transport, but also in relation to consumption in general, where we say that we must start helping people to live more climate-friendly and use fewer resources, among other things. by lowering the tax on repairs to make it easier for consumers, but also by making greater demands on design, etc. of products so that they do not break.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175816	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175819	Thank you to the alternative for helping to address the extremely serious nature of climate problems and for helping to say that action is very necessary. I think there is also reason to look critically at the objective of a zero-emission society in Denmark by 2050. I would like to hear what then is the alternative's assessment of what is the necessary year and possible year. Because it is a huge task, especially with the efforts that have been made in what has been agreed that there is a huge lack of CO2 that we need to reduce compared to the latest IPCC report, what is a good zero-emission society? What's the year we're gonna be looking for? Is 2040 a reasonable target, and can we do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129175917	We also made an energy play last spring, which just said that in 2040 we must have a reduction of at least 100 per cent. It is still very much in line with what we know from the UN climate panel. But I'm gonna have to put the turbo on. When we proposed two years ago that we should stop selling fossil cars by 2025, there was a timetable for how this could be done. And now it has been postponed because no one wanted to talk about it for two years, and then the government gets into it. So what's so dangerous about these numbers is that sometimes they become an excuse and we push them in front of us. We must take action, too, and 2040, as the rapporteur himself said in his speech, is the objective we have worked on in the way we have presented the policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129180005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129180006	Thank you. Now I think it is a good thing that the alternative sometimes comes up with some proposals, and then I think that sometimes we have to check them in such a quality way. And this one with a meat fee of $17. In the beef sector, I think that is quite socially wrong. Because that would mean that the single provider would have to pay 17 kroner. extra for the chopped beef and that the manager can buy the beef tenderloin for 400 kr. and pay only a tax of 17 DKK. Does the rapporteur not see that a CO2 on beef?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129180045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129180046	The funny thing is that there is not as much of what the rapporteur is proposing as we have not also proposed. So, in relation to differentiated VAT, we have proposed reducing VAT on fruit and vegetables in order to make it cheaper and easier. It is just important, we think, also to work directly with the levies, for example on meat. However, making such an approach does not mean that you cannot make policies that are also redistributable in other ways. It's so stupid to look at politics as little silos and think that we can't do anything over here with redistribution. And that is why when we present the beef levy plan, for example, we ask how we can offset it in other ways, for example through green cheques etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129180125	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129180135	Remember the summer? The sun was shining, it was really nice, we got a great May. Then it was June, the sun was shining, it was really, really nice, we were all super happy. Then it was July, the sun was shining, and there was not so much as a raindrop. We have one of our daddy songs that sounds like you Danish Sommer, I love you and there's a very famous phrase: "Byger, who goes and comes" is the Danish Sommer. It just wasn't this year. It was the hottest summer in over 100 years. It was that summer, I think, that made all of us say: maybe that's what we're dreaming about, but isn't it a little creepy all of a sudden? Isn't it unpleasant that we've changed things so much that we've actually affected even the weather? In California, it was less nice. People had to wear masks because there were such violent forest fires that you could not actually see a hand. In Sweden, the forest fires were so violent that Denmark had to send firemen up and help our neighbours. And that is just the one version of climate change. The other one we have seen when we have had some rainfall, where people here west and south of Copenhagen sailed around the streets. That is the problem of climate change. It is not the case that it gets a little nicer and a little warmer; it becomes completely unpredictable. Last year the harvest of agriculture was calculated away, this year they had drought problems and lost 6.5 billion according to their own figures. kr. Climate change is real, they are extremely expensive, and it is the biggest challenge for the Folketing in here. This is the biggest challenge for the Danish population and not least for the young people. As someone who has worked in the climate field for almost 18 years, it is nice that we have finally come to where a very broad crowd here in the Folketing are beginning to take it seriously. It is a pity that we have to get it right into our bodies and that it is not enough that we can read what the prospects are, but we obviously have to do so as humanity before we take this seriously. Now we've got 12 years from the UN to change everything. That is not a long time, and if everyone is sitting around looking at the other countries and saying that they are probably doing it, that they are probably fixing it, what happens then? Then nothing's gonna happen. We are a small country in Denmark, but we have shown the way in one area. Let me remind you of what we have done in the field of energy. Over the last four years we have brought down the price of offshore wind energy by 64 per cent, so it is now the second cheapest form of energy in the world, only surpassed by land wind energy. So Denmark has played a huge role in completely changing the energy sector. It is simply more expensive to build coal power plants, it is more expensive to make oil extraction and use gas than it is to make wind and solar energy. Denmark has a huge role to play. That is why I am very pleased that we could make an energy agreement with the government, whose first proposal actually lifted CO2 But, as Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also pointed out, after a broad circle of parliament came along, we got an agreement that said: in 2050 we should not just be fossil-free, we should be net zero emitters. This means that we should not deduce any more CO2 We made an agreement on three new offshore wind farms that our energy supply must consist of 100 per cent. Green power, and that our heat supply should be largely green by 2030. If this is to be possible, we have to have the courage, and we also have to have the courage to focus on the most important things. We can spread over a billion proposals, but how about we also sometimes focus? In the field of energy, the next task will be to find a smart way of storing energy so that we do not have to pay the most expensive solutions. The most expensive solutions are batteries, and they are large cables abroad. In fact, by using new technology on artificial intelligence with the data we have on collecting, we can store our wind turbine current, for example. in district heating and in large quantities of water everywhere, including: swimming pools. You can laugh, but an Olympic pool can store more power than 145 Teslas. So if you have a swimming pool and raise the temperature from 25 to 30 degrees, when there is too much wind power, then it is a much, much cheaper way than sending out 145 Tesla batteries into the world. We have a huge opportunity now, but that requires us to get these dynamic taxes in place that we got into the energy agreement from the radical side. Therefore, it is a very, very important thing that we are now giving industry, people who have waste water facilities, people who have water supplies, people who have district heating, the opportunity to do the right thing. So if we are to look at something in the area of taxation, the most important thing is to get in the dynamic taxes that actually reflect the real CO2 consumers can come along and make sure that their freezer cools down when there is cheap power, that their washing machine washes at night and that their car charges at night. That is the way we are going to change the taxes. This is the next step we want to take. Then we must say that what we did in the field of energy, the miracle we are shaping in Denmark, we can do again. We had many battles in the energy sector, and many said it was too expensive and that Denmark wasted a lot of money, but today no one is saying it anymore; today you are proud of the 35,000 jobs in the green industry; today you are glad that we are the country that has led the world. Should we not do it again in the agricultural sector? Shouldn't we have a vision that Danish agriculture will lead the green transition? And we must do this together with agriculture, just as we did in the energy sector. We can say that a large part of Danish agriculture has to think new, and we can help them to provide them with some framework conditions. One version is: Let's see if we can't do anything else on about a third of the land in Denmark. Instead of only making animal feed at 80%. of the land we could take some of them out of intensive operation • we have proposed up to one third of the land • so do something else on them. Tourism, hunting, hayshed, biofuels, there are plenty of opportunities to do something else on our land today, if we dare to put the aid differently. Let us go in with precision farming, with drone technology, with precision fertiliser, let us go in with artificial intelligence and find out how to grow plants. There are some who are now becoming much better at growing plants indoors. In old warehouses in New Jersey they can simply grow plants with less energy consumption, less water consumption, no pesticides and very little fertilizer. If we could not take our agriculture over there, could we not be the ones who produced for the new types of meat that are actually moving the world? When you in New York are waiting in line down the street to get a plant burger where the meat juice goes down because it feels like a real burger, isn't that the way to people out there, rather than a meat tax? Is it not better to give them a better product that tastes of the same, that is healthier and that has no climate impact? I think so. And shouldn't we bring Danish agriculture into that development? In any case, we would very much like to do so from a radical point of view. The third area in which we could show the world that the next 12 years can be used sensibly is transport. It is true that we need to have huge help from technology development here, but we do, because there is not a car manufacturer with respect for himself who is not developing either an electric car or a hydrogen car. In fact, they are all phasing out one line of petrol or diesel. I think electric cars are rolling now and we need to be ready to get the infrastructure in place so that we can handle so many charges in our networks that our charging system does not make a huge hole in the treasury, but that we are actually getting ready to change the registration fee as cars fall in price, so that driving by car does not necessarily become much cheaper overall, but so that we get switched to the green fleet, so that a revenue-neutral shift in the registration tax will be the right step to take. It has actually been working on this in the Treasury since 2009, and I am not sure that a new commission was necessary, because I think that is the political courage to make the change right now. The last theme I would like to mention, which could be addressed right now if you had the courage and ambition, is the whole area of resource efficiency, which is also called circular economy, i.e. how we can use all materials smarter and smarter. Today, the Danish Waste Association has pointed out that approximately 3%. Better resource efficiency in Europe, in other words using materials wiser and better, can cope with up to 25%. of CO2 This means repair, recycling, remanufacturing, new design manuals for how we use packaging and how we design construction, so that we can have the materials for much longer and use them in a sensible way, that is, a high quality, instead of burning them off. We have a government that unfortunately has to be pushed all the time, which will cancel the offshore wind farms, sorry, the coastal mills that have cut energy research, which dropped its climate target, which was appointed as the fossil of the year at the Paris climate summit, which set off the chairman of the Climate Council when they say that we are slowing down to a quarter. It's the wrong way to go. There are young people who strike on Friday because they want us in here to talk, there is the climate reminder every Thursday that is standing out there reminding us of that fact, yes, it is actually the whole population. This is the most important issue for the citizens of the next elections, so should we not pay tribute to it in here and say that now there is both will and there is insight for this to happen? People are ready to move, and we can't waste time!
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181126	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181129	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a very good speech, which also highlighted all the opportunities that it has to address. Finally, the rapporteur mentioned the climate reminder and the parole around which they meet, namely that all policy is climate policy. What is also climate policy, but which is not really something we talk about so much, is climate aid, in other words the funding we have promised in the Paris Agreement to the poorest countries. There is, of course, in this proposal for a climate bill, which is like a citizens' proposal, that we should give 5 billion. kr. a year. I know that the Radical Left was out with, I think, 300 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party for their excellent work. We have to find funding in relation to what we have to offer when it comes to the money to be spent?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181226	In any case, we fully agree that aid should be increased in general. We probably do not make such a clear distinction between ordinary aid and climate aid, because it is true, as the rapporteur says, that all policy is climate policy and because the efforts being made in the climate area by building offshore wind farms and by making solar offgrid in Africa, which means that they can start to have an industry, even if it is a small village, are closely linked. After all, we want to increase foreign aid to 1%, which means that it is not an unrealistic objective at some point to achieve 5 billion. kr. to climate assistance. So I think that is a real objective, and I do not think that a clear distinction should be made between ordinary aid and climate aid, because it is quite true, as the rapporteur says, that all policy should be climate policy and therefore also foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181313	But is it not such a fixed element, precisely when we talk about climate aid, that it should be new and additional means and that we should not just take the fight against poverty and turn it into climate policy, even if we have to think about it together; in other words, that we should not undermine our entire development policy because we are putting the money off somewhere else? So does the rapporteur not agree that we need to look at how we actually raise the money that we signed with the Paris Agreement to help travel?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181341	Yes, of course it is. But I guess it's additional when we want to go from 0.7%. At 1%, that's extra money. So I think the important thing here is that there will be more funding for the whole area of development and that we think it wisely. What I see when I talk to people in India, in China and from African countries is that they are very concerned that they can actually develop their economic policy and go in and look at energy policy, go in and see how they can make large investments in the climate area. So I just want to warn you not to make too many distinctions between those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181416	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181419	Thank you for that, President. I think I'm pulling my question. Because I actually thought it was some really exciting and interesting, what to say, development opportunities and topics you touched on in your speech, but I just got so tired at the end when you needed to run that horrible agenda, where you're running on that government so black, so black, so black, the government that helps to support that we stand where we stand today and which has stood in front of Denmark for a large part of the time when we are so proud of the cooperation we have. Well, you point out that the government wants to drop the coastal wind turbines and that we are therefore some bad ones. No, you cannot understand it that way unless you deliberately intend to discredit the government. The government wanted to drop the windmills at the current location, i.e. the completely coastal location on the west coast, where they are located on completely virgin land, and then move them further out onto the water. The rapporteur then says that the Minister is unfortunately just firing the advisers who are speaking against him, etc. No, it is also a completely insane, absurd theme to set up, everyone knows that. It is okay to make a little policy on this in the media because there has to be an election campaign, but everyone knows that it does not have its own way on the ground. I mean, I get so tired. And the fact that we're dropping those ambitious CO2 Well, we've set some other goals we want to be measured on, and the previous government hadn't taken any initiatives, from CO2 It went well because we got lots of hydropower from Norway and precipitation, and it was very fortunate, and therefore we've actually been able to meet them during our reign. So I'm actually dropping my question because I get so tired of what needs to bash this very bad green-blue government instead of the otherwise good cooperation you stretched your hand forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181612	I quietly remind the tired asker that we use the third person in here and do not address each other directly with you. Does the rapporteur have a comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181619	Yeah. In other words, I am glad that the rapporteur of the Left was carried away by the visions, and it could be that they were the ones to be resorted to instead of resorting to buying quotas in other countries. You spend $1 billion. kr. a year on buying long-term indulgences, the vast majority of the climate effort with LULUCF and with quota purchases. The rapporteur cannot deny this. It's black and white in the government's plan that you buy these things instead of getting started on the things I described up here. Could the rapporteur not explain to me why the money is not being spent on converting both the transport sector and agriculture instead of buying quotas in other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181657	Questioner: Will the questioner answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181700	Well, it's almost like I don't want to, but now, of course, I have to. The Environmental Economic Council has, of course, made it clear that the most cost-effective CO2 is combining these CO2 so it's one of the instruments. But I just don't understand why it has to be made again because we're black and we're bad. Take our transport initiative, which the rapporteur is now asking about, and which is obviously not good enough either. Try to find out your own. The rapporteur's party has not launched transport policy proposals for green conversion in the transport sector, which are roughly similar to the government's proposals, which we are now in the process of implementing. So my appeal just goes on the stage, which I get so tired of, that you need to shadow all the positive results we deliver from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181755	Well, rapporteur, we have played out what we want in transport and electric cars. And we were actually the first to say that we believe that we can go for 1 million electric cars if we dare. We have also said that you could look at the company cars and public vehicles and how you could look at the taxation of the entire registration tax. We have played out on this, so if the rapporteur gets tired, it has to be on its own, because you stand and say something that is not true. The government has a prime minister who speaks very well, talks about 1 million electric cars and makes a proposal which, according to the government's own calculations, provides 1,000 electric cars. And now we can understand that it has fallen to 150. Is that something we should clap our hands at now? I'm afraid it's not. So, although I would like to have the positive discussion, we also have to insist that it is not with this government at the helm that something really is going to happen in transport and agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181843	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129181858	Thank you. Our climate and energy rapporteur could not be here today, so I have promised to hold the rapporteur's speech on behalf of the SF. The climate policy statement contains very useful information and it is good to note that the government recognises the seriousness of the climate crisis in terms of words, because when it comes to government policy, there is not much to welcome. Unfortunately, the statement is an example of boasting of minimal and, in fact, less than minimal efforts. I have to remind you of some facts. The government did not fight to maximise the EU's renewable energy targets for 2030, Sweden and other countries were offensively in favour of 35%, but the government was unable to pull up to support that goal. It seemed like you'd rather think nothing. So much for the government's international climate struggle. When the government played out with an energy deal back in spring 2018, it was extremely scraped, and it was clearly symbolized by just wanting a single offshore wind farm. What all the money was to be spent on was a significant reduction in the electricity tax, and it was only after many weeks that the red block managed to give the agreement a significant boost, including that we came up to three offshore wind farms and that coal should be gone by 2030. The government then came in the autumn with a climate play, but here it is that the effort must be called less than minimal. The EU has provided for Denmark to reduce its climate pollution by 39%. Until 2030. The government fought against this for a long time because it was far too much to demand, but now it is called an ambitious objective in the statement, although it is less than what is necessary. At any rate, it must be said that it exceeds the ambitions of the government, because it has not succeeded in making a climate change proposal that meets the EU's requirements or only does so at the very best and using various accounting tricks. That is, for example, the case. extremely doubtful whether the cancellation of CO2 2 The government itself admits that it is hardly going to reach its goal, for up to 7 tonnes of CO2 is missing, as the Prime Minister evidently felt it was too embarrassing, for he then aired a vision of 1 million low-emission cars by 2030. That's great. But we're still waiting for the answer to how that's gonna happen, yes, just a hint. The government's proposal would give 1,000 extra electric cars in 2 years, but it can hardly be called a start, and almost at the same time as the Prime Minister had a vision, his government drove in exactly the opposite direction by once again reducing the registration fee on fossil cars. That money could appropriately have been spent on promoting electric cars and other low-carbon cars, as the SF has suggested. In the area of traffic, however, something was employed for right. There should be, for example: demands are made on our buses for climate neutrality, and that was fine. And yet, because a helping party revealed that it had to be financed by increasing fares. If it gets more people to take the car, then the climate gain will be modest. Worse is it in agriculture. Here there was virtually nothing other than a sensible proposal that biogas plants should be more dense, so the emissions of climate gas methane will be reduced, and this is despite the fact that the Climate Council and other experts have made it clear that the cheapest climate action is precisely in agriculture. It is quite simply wrong when the Minister writes in the statement that agricultural climate pollution cannot be reduced without affecting the competitiveness of the industry. SF has presented a very concrete proposal that means 25 per cent. less climate emissions from agriculture by 2030 compared to now, with an entirely minimal additional cost to agriculture. Two of the obvious proposals, as has already been mentioned here today, are the removal of the most climate-polluting agricultural land against compensation and a requirement to treat all barn dung except for the smallest farms. Sooner or later, it is absolutely necessary to do something about the climate pollution of agriculture, which, when you count it all, accounts for a total of 30%. of Denmark's climate pollution. And the longer you wait, the more drastic it has to stay. Why not take the lead and show that Danish agriculture can develop and adapt as a model for other countries' agricultural production rather than just hanging on to old-fashioned climate-laden farming? So we have a climate review with the right and serious background history and a lot of greenwashing. The lack of new proposals is a pity, but not surprising. We need a government that can make a difference in climate policy, because, as many have already said, the people are ready, technological developments are ready, and we should be doing so on the side of Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129182354	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no questions. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Erik Lund as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129182410	Thank you so much. First of all, thank you to the Minister for the good climate policy statement that we have received. I'm really glad to have read that. When you have to tell stories like that on the platform and we talk about climate policy, it was so that today I had expected that I should actually have been to the general assembly up in Allerød. I should have made a speech on the health issue, but then priority must be given, and here I am giving priority to the climate debate, and I think it has actually been a very good debate we have had here today. Shortly after I joined as Conservative Climate and Environment Rapporteur, I was interviewed for Everything. It's like they're always gonna get a new one that can screw up. They tried to make me do that, too. I then gave my bid as to how serious the development in relation to the climate problems of the planet is. I said, among other things.: We are not at the edge of the abyss, but the climate is accelerating in the wrong direction, and we must realise that it is very, very serious. I still think so, and so do Conservatives. By the end of the 1970s, the economy was approaching the abyss. Today, there is no doubt that it is the climate that should be our main concern. The experts have been warning about this for many years, and although we have done something about it we all have, we have been trying to do a lot... we have to realize that we should have taken care of this much earlier and much tougher. Climate change is something that both I and all of us are concerned about. Now is the time to take real action if the planet is to make it. It is not the little buttons that need to be screwed on, because then we will not reach the finish line. And even if Denmark cannot solve everything alone, it is important that we take the lead. One of the important initiatives in the climate and environmental field is the ambition that 1 million electric and hybrid cars will be part of the car park by 2030. It is not an end; it is an ambition. At the same time, new petrol and diesel vehicles will not be sold from the same year. That's a good button to turn on. Although much of the green transition must come from science, we politicians also have a huge responsibility. Part of the solution is to help people change their consumption. It is not only people's cars that need to be replaced, but we must all contribute by, among others. to change our behaviour so that we can reverse the negative developments in relation to climate problems. Although Conservatives are the green and environmentally friendly party and have pressed for a better environment, we should not be sacred either. I believe that we must all admit that we have not put enough pressure and pressure on climate challenges. The experts have been warning about this for many years, and although we did a lot of work, we've all been trying to do that... we should have taken care of this much earlier and much tougher. It is not to point the finger either of ourselves or of others, not at all, but it is a simple realization. Look at how advanced the climate crisis is. We have all reacted too slowly and have a responsibility to reverse developments. That is why I am also pleased that the government has been dragged into working clothes with, among other things. this climate policy statement 2018. It provides an excellent overview of the direction the government has set for Denmark's path towards climate neutrality by 2050. If we are to keep global warming down to 1.5 degrees in relation to the pre-industrial period, global greenhouse gas emissions must reach zero around 2050. And we can only ensure this if we work together and achieve a balance between emissions and greenhouse gas emissions. In order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, we must work towards a complete climate neutrality, and in the energy agreement of June 2018, we have also jointly set a very ambitious goal that Denmark should be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. We have set the road to 55%. renewable energy by 2030, which is actually a doubling compared to today, and as far as our electricity consumption is concerned, it must be covered by power and wind, sun and other green energy sources as early as 2030. However, one measure or a few measures is not enough to reverse the trend. Here, Conservatives are very excited that with the initiative we are also addressing the climate-laden cars where, from 2030 onwards, new traditional petrol and diesel cars are not to be sold and from 2035 onwards no new plug-in hybrid cars can be sold. The exemption from registration tax on smaller electric cars is a good step which has already been taken and which hopefully will help many more Danes buy an electric car when they have to replace the old car. Of course, Denmark cannot solve the world's climate challenges alone, but we can take the lead and thus encourage others to follow. Climate research is among other things. the way to success, but all good ideas, all good proposals for future climate action must be in play, and if they come, I think we also have a chance to save the planet. Conservatives naturally support the proposal for adoption tabled by the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129182948	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129182958	Thank you. And thank you to the Conservative rapporteur both for this speech and for other good speeches in the climate debate. I certainly think that the rapporteur did the interview in Altinget for ug with ticks and snakes. No one was set up because they had just started in here. But now that the rapporteur says what I would like to sign for the Conservatives to have often been: those in the blue block who have stood firm on the green point of view; that we should take the lead; and that these are not the small buttons we have to turn on here; the rapporteur also signals a serious one that I think is important. The Minister believes, as we heard before, that the government's plan is ample in relation to its ambitions, but I would like to ask the question I also put to the Minister: when it is proposed to reduce by 6 million. t from now on, i.e. CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183100	Whether it is hard to say is fast enough, but at least that is the pace that we think is sensible. We can see that when we arrive at 2030, we must suddenly move fast. But, as they say, we take the low-hanging fruits first, and then from 2030 real speed has to be on. But we support the government's position on this, and we actually believe that this is a good way to do it. We have also heard from other rapporteurs that I know where you want to go that when we talk about agriculture, etc., we need to find some action. But it's not something you just do overnight. So we support the fact that it is from 2030 that real speed is coming on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183141	Thank you. Well, I did not expect the rapporteur to say that the government's policy was not supported. However, I am just trying to appeal to the seriousness of what seems to have occurred in the world around which a great many citizens sign that we should have raised our ambitions and how many insist that we should be able to do more, perhaps an opportunity for the Conservatives to be some of those in the government bloc who would like to be invited, as we also say in our proposal for adoption, to agree on a few more concrete objectives, for example. for the green cars, than what the rapporteur himself said was a fine ambition, but of course not an objective that the government wants to hang on to. I would like the Prime Minister's fine words to be exchanged for a real goal, so we know what we have to count on. And even if I acknowledge that the Conservatives have drawn in the right direction, we would like to get all the way across the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183235	I think we should be careful to say: what can we achieve in the government, and what can we achieve in the future government, whether it be one or the other? I think that if we're going to achieve these goals, we all have to find solutions together, and I think that, in fact, both Conservatives and everyone else will. Now, of course, I am a new one in here, but I think that the fact that you keep saying that that government should now do this, and if we have a new government, it should do this, we must be careful. I think it is very important that we take decisions together and have some solutions worked out and then I think we are going to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183303	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183307	Yes, but with this huge transformation, we really need a lot of action to achieve our goal. I could then listen to the fact that the climate should be the main concern and that conservatives would like us to be climate neutral by 2050 and recognise that this is a goal that we are working towards. When you look at what the government has outlined in its climate plan and what to say about the lack of action in it, then we have the prospect of achieving the target by 2150 with government policy, if that is the pace that has been outlined lately. And I'm not making this up. I have simply asked the Minister a question which he has had to answer right before the debate. And thank you for that. But does the rapporteur not see that with what is in this climate plan, we need to do more? I understand that one must be a little loyal when one sits in government, but does the rapporteur not see that something significant more simply needs to be done if we are to arrive at a CO2 level?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183415	We can see that with the technology that has been through many years and the technology that is coming, it will be much stronger than what has been proposed here I am absolutely sure of that. If we reach the target by 2050, I can't predict, but I think that if all good forces bring in here with new knowledge, new technology, then I think we'll get a really, really long way along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183440	Now there are times when you have the opportunity to take a fresh look at things. by choice. But I also think that we have an opportunity when these more than 50,000 people here give support to a citizens' proposal proposing that a Danish climate law should be drawn up. This kind of gives us an opportunity to gather about it in a very short space of time, and it could be the whole House of Parliament that you want to do something more. That is the possibility offered by a citizen's proposal. I would like to know whether the Conservatives will be involved in taking this citizen's proposal very seriously and, as such, will be gathering together to make a greater effort than we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183517	Conservatives always take citizens' proposals very seriously. This is, of course, something we will discuss in the Conservative Group, how we will deal with it, but of course it must also be agreed between the governing parties. And then we'll make a decision after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183529	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183532	Thank you. I think I hear two things from the Conservatives' rapporteur, namely that we are happy and fully in agreement with the government's policy, but at the same time that there is recognition that it is bad, not enough at all, in one way or another. Because all of a sudden, we're about to run really fast by 2030. And usually the Conservatives don't usually be some who just pass the bill on to future generations, but actually some who want to give a gift on. That is why I would like to know whether you think that what you are doing now is enough when you see that the rate of reduction is falling to a quarter, both with the energy conciliation and the climate plan, or whether you think that the government has done enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183621	I mean, I'm gonna ask again, what's enough? In other words, as I have also said, we and others are concerned about the developments that have taken place, but we also believe that the measures that have now been taken are in the right direction. We will be pleased with that. However, if we among the parliamentary parties can find solutions that can make it even faster, we will be taking part in a discussion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183657	But it is not just that we are moving in the right direction; we are lowering the rate of reduction to a quarter. This means that we have had a curve that has risen rapidly, and now we are lowering it. And then those who come behind us have to run really fast. There is something antisocial about it compared to those who are coming after us. Now we have not wanted to look at agriculture by the government, but we have seen little about transport, but there is also the whole side of consumption, such as the lifetime of products, the use of resources, etc. Is that part of what the Conservative People's Party wants to offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183732	We look at the consumption side all the time. There was a rapporteur I don't remember which one said that we could also reduce our consumption of energy. And we've been talking about what the municipalities, for example. do what the regions do. Now I do not know how long the regions are here, but what are the municipalities doing to make these energy measures? And there I can say that what I have experienced in the municipality in which I am and in many other municipalities is that you have come very, very far. There they have taken the low-hanging fruits. And it is true that the government's construction framework has blocked this, but we have had the opportunity to seek some exemptions, and it may well be that this is the way to do it, so that the municipalities can get even more of the energy renovations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183820	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129183826	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for a very good climate debate. In fact, I think we have a privilege in Denmark: that we have a Parliament, a Parliament in which all parties in parliament, in the Folketing, take the climate challenge seriously. In fact, I do not believe that there are many parliaments in the world where it is, or I know that it is not. In our own neighbourhoods too, I believe that many envy us with the broad consensus in the Folketing when it comes to the climate challenge. This is a serious challenge we face. In the first half of his speech, Ida Auken explained very well the challenge facing us. The UN Panel on Climate Change has made clear in its report that there is a challenge that we must take seriously and that there is such a need for action and accountability as well. I would just like to say that, with the government's energy initiative and the energy agreement that we manage to achieve before the summer break, we took quite large and fine steps. When we get there by 2030, it's 100 percent. of the power coming out of the outlet in Denmark, based on renewable energy. We get up on that 55%. of the total energy demand is based on renewable energy, and we see a district heating sector that is close to being 100 percent green. We will phase out coal from the energy supply by 2030 at the latest. I think that there is indeed reason to be quite satisfied. In addition, there is also a climate change initiative that sets out significantly. This is the first time there has actually been a climate play of this magnitude that this government has played out with. If you put climate agreement and energy agreement together, we will reduce quite, quite significantly. The energy alone is between 11 and 12 million. t CO 2 million t CO 2. We're on our way. What one can of course worry about when one listens to today's debate is that some people would like to make this debate and also today's debate a sort of battlefield, and I actually think the climate debate is too important for that. We in the Folketing should be able to concentrate on creating the solutions that need to be found. We are doing quite well in the field of energy. But we also know that we are approaching a parliamentary election, and everyone can read in the opinion polls that many Danes are rightly preoccupied with this. For me and for the government, the most important thing is not to stand here in the Folketing and beat each other upside down. It is to create the results. We already have. We have done so with the energy agreement, and we have done so with the climate scenario. Of course, we are not in the finish line. There will be a need for many times up to 2030 to look at new initiatives. That is why I am also pleased that, with the climate initiative, funds have also been set aside, opportunities for us to continue the green transition and also the solutions that research and development must contribute to creating, and that from 2024 onwards we will be spending 1 billion. kr. on energy and climate research. In fact, there is good reason, not least in relation to the size of the country, to be quite satisfied with that. Then it is also clear that when we talk about reducing, we very much agree that we need to be ambitious in terms of continuing to reduce emissions of CO2 I am also very pleased that the government is now allocating 100 million. kr. This is one of the areas that needs to be explored in the development of take-up and take-off and storage of CO2. Because we have to reach the target of 100 percent. CO 2 2 2 But I would like to thank you once again for the debate, which has, to a large extent, been marked by the fact that there is a broad concern in this Parliament about the challenge we face. And as climate minister, I have no doubt about anything but that the climate challenge is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The government is prepared to take responsibility for Denmark also making its contribution to reducing emissions and solving the challenge we face. But if we really have to succeed, it is good that we are a pioneer country and not only can we show that this can be done, but also that we will have the rest of the world and, above all, the great CO2 Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184405	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184410	We are well on our way, the Minister says, and it is with the Climate Council report in mind that one hears that sentence. I am actually a little curious about the fact that we must not make it a battlefield, that it must not be a political battle. Well, for example, if we take the PM's announcement to the opening debate to put a stop to the sale of fossil cars, I would say that back in 2016, we went out and tried to push for a date to be set. Only this summer, when we had debates where I was standing with the climate minister, I was called insatiable with almost contempt in my voice when I said what I thought it was necessary to do, among other things. also stop selling fossil cars etc. So it is a political battle in which pressure must be exerted constantly, because we are seeing right now that we are going down completely in relation to the rate of reduction. That is the reality. So what I really would like to hear the Minister about now on this debate is: if you already know that you are not doing enough towards 2030, when will you take an initiative to go further, for example in agriculture and transport, but also in consumption, i.e. products, lifetimes, re-operations, etc. etc.? Because we must remember the words that I also said in my speech, as they stand down there and say every Thursday morning: all politics is climate policy. It is all sectors that have to bid.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184539	Contrary to the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, we are actually in the government concerned with producing results, and that is why I am mentioning this here with the battlefield. We are actually concerned about producing results. That is also what I hope will succeed here in the Folketing, and it is also a sign of the climate, that we, as the first government ever at home, have a proposal to phase out petrol and diesel cars from 2030. It's actually quite significant. If you look out into the world, you can see that some countries have this objective, but not many countries have that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184621	Sometimes, when I discuss with the climate minister, I wonder if there is even a hearing of what is being said, and it is, of course, that sometimes you start yelling a little louder, and then it is that it can be seen as a battleground, but it is really just a political struggle whether we should do something or do enough. I would like to hear again: when are we going to take action in all the other sectors that need to be tackled if we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves if we are to reach the agreement we have signed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184650	I would like the questioner to think about agriculture in relation to other sectors, among other things. We have a budget of ECU 100 million for food aid and ECU 100 million for food aid and ECU 100 million for food aid. kr. to that we are researching and developing in the field and finding the right tools in order to be able to get an effort done there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184720	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184723	Thank you. Now the Minister mentioned that this would be the way to invest in new technology, and it is a good thing to do so. But I would like to appeal for a little effort to be made on some old technology as well. And for the wood in construction, I'd say, yes, it can work as CO2 then we'll have to look at what it is in the building regulations that needs to be changed to promote wooden building. So it is quite possible that you can do an analysis of how much CO2 But that is to say, we can all agree that if you establish more forest instead of having grain fields, there is an opportunity to create a CO2 Likewise, if you take those low-bed areas and have permanent grass instead of plowing them, then you have a positive CO2 It may be old-fashioned to leave the plough standing, but that's kind of something that works. We do not have to wait solely for some new technology. Can the Minister not see that, in this way, there is something that can be set in motion on the agricultural side that has an effect? In other words, I am glad that the Minister does not mention shooting cows today, but that we have had the opportunity debated and concluded that there are some other means which the Minister might be a little open to can be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184835	Thank you for the question. In fact, I very much agree with the questioner that there are both old-fashioned and new methods that we can use. Some of the old-fashioned ways of drawing the CO2 LULUCF mechanism, that is, using forests and land to absorb CO2 we do not need to research and develop so much. Something will have to be done, but in order to ensure that the carbon balance is reasonable, it is the methods that can be used. But there are also new methods that we do not know today, where you can draw CO2 into building materials or in any other way. These are relatively expensive methods, but you know that it can be done, and now it just requires you to find the right way to do it. And I think it's obvious that you both look at what's of old methods and what's of new ways to do things. Should we reach the goal and be CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129184939	Well, I can see that there is in the government parties' proposal for adoption, which will probably not be adopted either. There is probably nothing that will be adopted when we vote on these decisions... that the Danish Parliament should call on the government to work to continue an ambitious green transition that will make Denmark a climate-neutral society by 2050 at the latest. I cannot quite agree with the fact that the government then has an initiative to ensure that we reach the goal by 2150. I would like to ask the Minister: would it not be reasonable for us to start afresh; for us to accept this citizen's proposal, which will come to the end in half a day? While we have spoken, there are 2 000 people who have signed the demand that we should have a new climate law. Could we not take that proposal and say: now we want to do a little extra; now we are trying to bring the whole parliament together to vote in favour of this citizens' proposal? Doesn't the Minister see the possibility in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185028	Thank you for the question. I am very pleased with the great commitment in the student movement and in those outside Christiansborg, but also when I come around society in general and meet ordinary people who are preoccupied with the challenge we face. And that is why I am very pleased that there is such a broad and great interest in the Folketing. In relation to the citizens' proposal, we have to read it and look at what the content of it is. We need to look at what opportunities there are. In fact, I have a sensible approach and also openness to discuss some of the solutions that could be found in the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185104	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185107	Thank you. I think it seems fairly obvious to some of my fellow Members that the pace is not high enough right now if we are going to reach a target by 2050. We're pushing a really, really big task ahead of us. But if we are to be quite specific, because it can also be a little abstract, could the Minister imagine that we could do more in relation to, for example, promoting electric cars? I did ask the question in September, but I received a reply from the Minister this week on what the government's proposal here will mean, and when the answer is that it will give 150 more electric cars in 2019, I know that the government has also proposed that company car taxation could be changed. This is a very concrete proposal. Could the Minister imagine voting in favour of it if it came to the Chamber next week?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185210	Well, the government is certainly prepared to do more in relation to the spread of both electric cars and other green vehicles. That is why we would have liked to have seen a broader agreement on the electric cars when we discussed this very shortly ago. Among other things, they included: I can only regret that the opposition did not succeed in getting a wider agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185241	I think you have to have a PhD in Christiansborg's talk, if you're to understand that argument. We want a cheaper, better, more advantageous corporate car tax for green cars. The government says they do, too. When I ask the Minister whether the Minister and the government will vote for it if it is tabled in the Folketing next week, the Minister says: No, because we have not made an electric car agreement before Christmas. I can't understand it for outsiders. If we all agree on this, we can vote for it next week, can't we? This was a concrete example of correcting a little bit of the fact that we are getting only 150 electric cars out of government policy. So will the government support a green corporate car tax, which, as far as I understand, is government policy, but which voted against when we tabled the amendment before Christmas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185334	Thank you for the question. If sir... Jens Joel was so concerned about it, his party and other parties had made an agreement with the government before Christmas, where there were also reliefs in company car taxation on electric cars. Social democracy and other parties thought more tactics before they thought about creating concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185359	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has been asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 31 January 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190129185415	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 30 January 2019 at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
