ParlaMint-DK_20191121100026	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100034	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 15 of Jep Bruus (S), Mads Birded (V) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 52 (S, V and LA), against 50 (DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and NB), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 15 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 14 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF) and Mette Thiesen (NB), proposal for adoption No. V 16 by Kristian Hegaard (RV), Rosa Lund (EL), Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and proposals for adoption no. V 17 by Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100150	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100233	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100245	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 102 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA), against 1 (ALT) (by mistake), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100311	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100325	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100350	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100404	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100430	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100454	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100520	The Minister for Taxation has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 4 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100554	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the chocolate tax law, the law on various excise duties, the VAT law and various other laws. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 12 and 13 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 of a minority (V), elected by a majority (other committee), or on amendments. No. 9 and 10 members of the Committee? They are adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the VAT Act]. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 14 outside the report by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11 of a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee)? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law referred to under A should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law referred to in B be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100734	The debate is open, but we will wait until there is a little more silence in the Chamber. Now I assume that those who want to be in the Chamber have done what they have to do. That's why we're about to get started. It's the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100904	Thank you. I think it's getting pretty quiet now, that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100918	Wait a minute. We need to ask the Minister of Justice and others that we get a little more quiet in the Chamber. There has been an opportunity to go outside and continue the negotiations that are under way. I now hope that we will have some time to get this debate under way. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121100931	Thank you. In connection with the draft Finance Act, the Government proposed to reduce the switching rate from 76 to 71 for private free schools this year. In this context, the government also proposed to set aside a pool of 75 million. kr. to compensate for the schools located in the outermost regions and in areas with considerable distance from a primary school, or schools which have a socially unbalanced pupil group. The reason for the proposal was that we had to find funding and that funding should, by its very nature, be used for the welfare investments that we have put in place in the context of the financial bill, including abolishing the re-priority contribution and putting more money into more hands in the country's day-care institutions. And when you have to find that kind of money, you look beyond the landscape and see if there are some places where we don't spend the money quite appropriately. So, by its very nature, the eyes of private schools, which, while day care institutions and the education sector have held very hard in recent years, have increased their accounting profits by sixfold. We must then acknowledge that we cannot obtain a majority in order to implement it, and that is why, before this proposal is dealt with today, we have taken it off the table again in the context of the financial law negotiations. So we just have to acknowledge that there is no majority for that in the Folketing, and then it is no longer. However, when the Liberal Alliance nevertheless puts forward the motion for a resolution to maintain a coupling rate of at least 76 and we are therefore going to discuss it today, I would really like to take this opportunity to justify our proposal. I went right into the Liberal Alliance website just to read. I haven't been there since the election campaign. It's really very interesting. And there is a lot of talk about how to make the public sector more efficient, how to use the tax dollars more efficiently, and then, and I quote, the relationship between price and service must, of course, be in order. Here we then have a sector that, in addition to having got their public subsidies turned up... which we are spending tax dollars on... has sixfold their accounting profits. They have been awarded more and more tax dollars, even by a minister from the Liberal Alliance. So we have to assume that the Liberal Alliance and the former minister are aware that there are huge differences in the free and private schools. This means that one could have taken the initiative to say that the part that needs extra money is turned up, and then one does not turn up the part where the accounting surplus is already large. We are talking about a sector which, at the time when it started to turn up, had a surplus of 60 million. kr. a year. And it can be said that it can be a little difficult to determine exactly what the accounting surplus should be, because some of the schools are saving up to build or do other things at a later stage. However, a definite six-fold increase in profits would have to bear witness to the fact that, at an earlier stage, the sector had not been able to hang together. Back to the point that free and private schools in Denmark are very different. I also sometimes get a little upset that we are taking this debate as if they were all the same. They are spoken of as being the same, and as if the task they promise is the same; and it is not. These are profoundly different schools that carry out profoundly different tasks in our society. And that is why, according to the proposal we had put forward, we believe that there should be a difference between what you get in grants at the different types of free and private schools reflecting the task you undertake. A lot of free schools have come into the world, for example. because the local primary school is closed, or because there has never been one in the neighbourhood in which you are, or at least it can be many years since there has been one. And that's where the free school works as the beating heart of a community. They are also typically schools where you get pupils from all those who live nearby.So the student composition is broad and you make a virtue of keeping the parental pay as low as you can within the grant framework, because you want the student composition to be broad. In other words, in those schools we are both undertaking the one task which concerns the professional task of teaching children to read and count and all the other things to learn when going to school, and they are also undertaking a different task, namely a social task, by taking a share of the socially vulnerable children who are in the area, and by the way, they reflect the population broadly in that task; and that is to say, they are also undertaking the task of being the social melting pot that creates the foundation for cohesion in Denmark. It is the one and quite large group of free schools that we have in Denmark. And it was our presentation that you should go in and see if you could do it differently, compared to how much you get, depending on who you are, and what task you solve. But where we in the Social Democratic Party want to give different priority are those places where the task is simply different because we have taken on another task. And there we may think that the thing about multiplying the profits, while elsewhere in the public sector, is above all a strange signal to send. And that is not an appropriate way to use our tax dollars. Therefore, it is also surprising that it is precisely the Liberal Alliance that usually cares about the kind of thing that makes this motion for a resolution. But peace be to it. However, when the composition of pupils gets very skewed, we do not think that the whole task of running a school is going to be lifted. You lift parts of it, yes, and that is why you obviously need a grant. But you don't do the whole job, like other schools do. And I think it is right that we should not actually develop with one hand the kind of schools in the private and free school sector, while with the other hand, we in the Parliament hall are engaged in a huge exercise, which is about spreading pupils, so that we get a better composition of pupils everywhere, from crèches to crèches and up to schools and upper secondary schools, etc. We have just had a debate on this during this week in the Parliamentary Assembly, and I was aware of only one party which did not agree that it is important for us to disperse the pupils. And if you look at the free school world, there is at least part of it where I and the government do not think it is a good idea to give incentives for more money. So the thing about some going in and sixfolding a surplus in a sector, while at the same time this type of school benefits from this, without one being able to guarantee the diversity of the subsidy structure, which means that we get funds for those who need to have, is not good. And there I can just say that we, for example. has Herlufsholm School, which I think most people know is one of the oldest private schools in Denmark. If you draw the figures on how the social composition is at a regular school in Næstved and how it is at Herlufsholm School, you will see that 8.7 per cent. of the pupils whose parents only have primary education attend an ordinary school in Næstved, while 0.8%. Going to Herlufsholm. 72.4% of the students who go to Herlufsholm have parents who have a medium or long higher education. It's the way it is. I am just questioning whether it is really the case that you then lift the whole task of keeping school. You lift a part of it, yes, and that's why we grant it, and so do we. But do you promise it all if you also think that keeping school in a society is the foundation of the cohesion that must be in society? No, actually, I don't think so. At least you don't do it to the same extent as elsewhere. And that is why I think it is fair to have less money than elsewhere. When we take this debate in public and when I say this, I know that a lot of free schools think: does that apply to us too? No, and that is why I am at least so tired of that debate being about free and private schools under one. For a school that is notoriously composed in a wide variety of pupils is not covered by what I am saying. That is something else, because that is where you lift the whole task. And more of the task that I believe the public authorities, in other words tax dollars, have to pay for, is being done. Then there is the second part of the schools in which I do not think the whole task of being the social melting pot, as I think it is a goal school, should be. And there I take the figures from the top, understood as where you have the largest share of a particular ethnic group, namely the Al-Hikma School, where 98 percent. of the children have an immigrant background or are descendants of immigrants. Then there is the Modern Cultural School in Aarhus, which has 95%, Slagelse Private school with 91 percent, Al Huda School with 89 percent. And so on down there. I spend a large part of my waking hours trying to help create a better student composition in primary school. We have not solved that problem yet, and that is why we can also find examples of primary schools where, in my view, the percentage is far too high. I do not think that part of the solution to this problem is to set the coupling rate so high that we encourage even more schools of the kind that have been defined from the outset to have such a biased composition of pupils. I simply do not think so. So, when you have gone from having a switching rate of 71 to having a switching rate of 76 without dealing with the problem that there are a number of schools • Herlufsholm School at one end and the schools I mentioned here, at the other end • where the pupil composition is very, very skewed, I do not think have been the right way to go. And that is why, as a government, we believe that thinking in a switching rate that reflects more of the task with which it becomes diverse is the right way to go. And, by the way, I hear there are other parties who do, and I look forward very much to discussing this with those parties. We have had a different view of whether money should be taken out of the free and private school sector; we have heard there is no majority for that. But the incredibly fruitful discussion we have had with each other about looking more diverse at the free and private schools, I think we should certainly continue. And I would like to see stability established both on the free and private schools and on the public schools, so that we can distribute the pupils and ensure that we know what we have to do with the economy in the years to come. These should be the opening remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121101940	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121101944	Thank you for your speech and comments. The speech also triggers on my part a few remarks and a question. The first remark is about Herlufsholm as an example of course you can take, but it is a rather special example. I am well aware that there is a preference for a little biased examples. When you lower the registration fee, the Social Democrats also like to put in a Ferrari as a calculation example of the savings that might not be the most typical. As far as housekeepers are concerned, the state would have a billion-dollar cost if it were to lift the obligation to teach all children and it was theoretically imagined that the free schools did not exist, so the free schools are all in all very, very profitable for the state. The equity of the free schools is typically due to following the instructions given by the Ministry of Education in relation to equity capital. So my real question is: will the Minister regulate the instructions for equity? That's how simple it is to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102100	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102102	Yeah, that's an opportunity, and I'd like to take a look at that. I hope that the Liberal Alliance will engage constructively in the forthcoming negotiations on these matters. I'm pretty much open-minded about how we're gonna do it. We have taken our proposal off the table now, which means that we must now find other ways of achieving what we want in the government. And I would say, in relation to this, whether or not you are undertaking a job in the free school sector, that it was a few years ago that we had a transfer rate of 71 at that time, the number of free schools in Denmark increased. So our proposal to put it down to 71 percent. again is to bring the free schools somewhere where you were a few years ago and where there was an increase in the number of free schools in Denmark. It is just to say that the thing about setting it up in relation to closing an entire sector or closing hundreds of schools, and what else has been out there, I simply think is nonsense, and now the rapporteur repeats it here. Of course, there may be schools that close down, so the schools themselves have a responsibility to make things run around but you are generally with relatively large accounting profits like this. The same does not really apply if we look at other parts of the public sector. In some places you do, elsewhere you don't do this is so one of the places where some schools have made really big profits.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102212	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102213	The next question is something else, and it is more of a political debate. The central point of the free schools is precisely that they are free Is it not at all an opportunity for the Minister to consider what should we say about the criticism which also lies of political arrangements in the free schools? There is often criticism of the municipalities that they have committed wrong by closing schools, and perhaps there is also a criticism of Christiansborg, in relation to the fact that some reforms have actually been made which many parents simply do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102251	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102253	Well, I think that is actually the serious part of this, especially because what you can see is that there is a sharp increase after the municipal reform, where the municipalities are growing, and that is to say that love for the small schools is getting smaller, and that is why many primary schools are closing in the wake of the municipal reform. I find that very sad because I think it is starving areas if there is no school. And when I make the distinction that I make, also in my speech, it is because I have extreme love for people who want to run school, because it is good for a society and, of course, also for the creation of communities in a society. So there's that differentiation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102333	Then it's Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102334	Now both free schools and primary schools are in a spectrum where some are more elitist, from where they have their recruitment basis, and others are non-elitist. And that is why I am saying this now, when it is the minister himself who used the word nonsense about something that is actually no nonsense that the minister compares the average of primary schools with one of the most elitist private schools that exists, namely Herlufsholm. The minister might as well have compared Herlufsholm with the Endrup School in Fredensborg, the Tranegårdskolen in Gentofte or the Queengårdskolen in Rudersdal, to take the three schools that have the highest average among the pupils and therefore also have a parent group that looks quite different from the average primary school. So that was bullshit. But it is very characteristic of the way in which the Minister has dealt with this matter too, by constantly talking about the profits of free schools. The free schools must use their profits to renovate buildings, and if you look out in the country, at least one thing is absolutely certain: the average free and private school does not have as good buildings as the average primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102444	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102446	Now the rapporteur has some examples of some schools where I also have a desire to spread the pupils. I also said that in my opening speech. So, in the Social Democratic Party, we have a desire for schools to reflect the composition of the population to a great extent. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned about how to draw school districts at the municipal level from our mayors; that is why we are concerned about it here in the Folketing; that is why we have called for negotiations on it as one of the very first. One of the first agreements we have ever made here has, of course, been about the distribution of pupils in upper secondary education. So in relation to the fact that the rapporteur can give examples of other schools that are then public and where the composition of pupils is distorted, I would say that we need a different toolbox, and we are doing so. That is actually where we first have agreements, because we have a different view of what the task of the primary schools, and hence of the free and private schools in society, is than that of the Liberal Alliance. We believe that it should be a social melting pot where we get to know each other crosswise. We're gonna have to live together, we're gonna have to be each other's bosses, employees and colleagues. We need to know each other crosswise. We want to insist on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102549	Thank you. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102551	Well, good luck with the project to get the children from Rudersdal to go to school in Ishøj etc. It will be nice to see when it succeeds one day, especially if it can be done by volunteering. If you force people to bust their kids around, it's not that funny. So I hope the Minister isn't up to that. But I still want to say that it is quite irresponsible to compare one of the most elitist private schools with an average primary school. If you want to compare, you have to compare the most elitist private or free schools with the most elitist primary schools because they also exist there. So let me say on this point that savings are being made in the public sector: if savings are being made in the public public schools, the switching rate will also trigger savings in private schools in their subsidies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102633	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102635	Well, in relation to comparing, I would say that it is different tools that need to be used to address the concentration of pupils in primary schools and then the tools that need to be used at the other end. So I do not really know what the rapporteur wants us to compare. I believe that there is a huge problem in both the types of schools mentioned by the rapporteur, and I think it is quite unreasonable that we should pay the same dollars and the same cents. I would also like to say that there are plenty of municipalities in Denmark where it is done, moreover, on the Socialist initiative that more money is given to schools that take greater social responsibility than to primary schools that do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102711	Then it's Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102713	When you hear the Minister's speech today, you can hear that the basics are envy and ideological resistance of the Socialists, which is why the Socialists want to kid the free schools in Denmark and basically kid the free school choices of parents and children. I find that sad, and I actually thought, after it was taken off the table at the Finance Act negotiations, that it could be and it was naive that the Socialists had become a little smarter, but the speech from the Minister today does not seem to be the case. This is an ideological battle against free school elections and free schools in Denmark. The minister says that all schools get the same in grants. That's factually wrong. The Minister himself has replied to me that, under the linking rate of 76, there is a very, very large redistribution, which means, of course, that the gap in the grant of free primary schools varies between 65 per cent. 98 per cent and 98 per cent. After all, we have had the whole election campaign and all the time since the election campaign to tell us exactly what the Socialists want to redistribute further. Could the Minister not tell us in the Chair today so that we can overcome this ideological struggle and perhaps start to hear what the Socialists really think?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102826	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102827	I am not quite sure that I understood the part that the rapporteur said about envy. What are we supposed to be jealous of? Well, who's jealous of who? I did not understand that part of the question, so it may be that the rapporteur will just repeat it. I actually think I used a lot up here that I think the free school sector and the private school sector are very different. So to the point that we should have something against free schools and private schools, I would say that yes, we do, where there is no proper composition of pupils. Yes, we do. We do not believe that the whole task is to be carried out. However, I also think that the Left should take down the fact that we actually have a desire to strengthen the small local schools that have been established and which create community in the community. I think it would actually suit the Left that you actually listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102914	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102916	Yes, but that redistribution is already happening today. Despite what the Minister has said in this Chamber today, namely that everyone gets the same thing, they do not get the same thing. The Minister's answer to the question I have put to the Minister shows this. The subsidies you receive range from 55% to 55%. 98 per cent and 98 per cent. So there is a very large redistribution today to the small free schools. That is also why the government's proposals would have fatal consequences for a large number of schools if they took 300 million. kr. from the free schools, and would mean the closure of up to 100 free schools, especially those in the outermost regions. So can the Minister not say in concrete terms what the Socialists want, in addition to conducting an ideological fight against free schools? What kind of redistribution is going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102956	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121102957	I really think I've been pretty specific about that. That was also apparent from the answer. And, of course, I am naturally aware of the answer which I myself sent to the rapporteur. It's almost self-sustaining. We have put forward a proposal in which we wanted to cut the coupling rate, which is the same for everyone. Then it is true that there is an underlying mechanism to which the rapporteur has been given an answer. We want to cut the coupling rate in general and then compensate if you are a school which, for example, is very far away from the places where there are primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103028	It's Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103030	It must nevertheless be a difficult debate, that is, when you stand all alone as the only party that wants to reduce the coupling rate. It is true that if you want to go into an ideological crusade, it is very good to have some who go along, otherwise you end up standing out there with the tab alone, and that is what we see the minister doing right now. So I would really just like to ask the quite open question: why not take stock of the floor that does not want to reduce the coupling rate and then stop squeezing out the free schools, those who actually lift a responsibility, and instead recognise that they are not each other's prerequisites, then at least they help each other and they build each other up. They're not each other's opposites. Will the Minister not go that way if she can now see that there is not one other party in the Folketing who thinks that we should do as the Minister does, namely to reduce the coupling rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103119	We have taken the proposal off the table. In other words, the only reason we have this debate is because the Liberal Alliance insisted on having the motion for a resolution. In relation to the one-on-one issue, I do not think it is difficult to have a debate alone. I couldn't think of changing my position just because I felt alone. I believe that we are elected because we represent different positions, and I think that is one of the finest things about our democracy. What I am, on the other hand, a little shocked about is that there is no greater love for the cohesion of this Parliament; that there is no greater concern that a larger and larger proportion chooses free schools; and that one has a need to say that because we are some who care about it in a slightly different way than some others, it should mean that we just don't like any kind of free schools at all. In other words, why do we need to turn the debate somewhere where we say some things and put words in our mouths? Well, I'm saying up here from this platform that the government has announced that we have a wish that the schools that create community in the communities have proper conditions. We believe that they are undertaking a truly important task which was abandoned after the municipal reform. What part of it is not heard, and why is it left out of the debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103228	Now it is Mai Mercado for his second question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103231	In many ways it is an excellent debate, because it really brings out the political differences. Because we think that free schools also help to create communities. And that's why I think the minister will see that it provokes a lot of both parents and others who have a share in the educational world • when the minister says that you just check out of the community when you go to a free school. There can be a lot of reasons why you go to a free school. It may be that you have been teased and need a change of school. It may be that the local primary school has been closed and that it is simply too far for another. There may be oceans for good reasons that you choose. But I would just like to ask: will the Minister stop putting forward these savings proposals when it is quite clear that there are no parties in the Folketing other than exactly the minister's own party that want to reduce the coupling rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103320	We're gonna get an answer to that now. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103321	Why on earth should I give a guarantee? In other words, it would be extremely strange if the Social Democrats were to put themselves in a place where they simply said: in the future we will give a guarantee that we will never again propose our own policy. On the other hand, I do not want to stand down here in the Chamber and be voted down every other day; it is a waste of time. So, in a balance between the two extremes, I think that we ourselves are making an assessment of when we are making what proposals. I have stood down here to deal with an infinite number of resolutions during my life, for which I knew there was no majority, and at some point you start to think it's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103355	Then it's Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103357	Thank you. It is very difficult to sit and wait so long to get the floor, but I really feel a need to say some things very clearly here in an opening of the debate: the free schools are not designed to show what population composition there is in Denmark. They were created in 1855 by law and later entered into the Constitution as a freedom for parents to choose for themselves what form of education their child should have ~ end. There is no other reason for free schools, and that is the reason why free schools can be created. Then I expect a great deal of an invitation from the Minister to address some of the problems raised by the Minister from the platform here, namely the very biased composition of pupils in some schools, and I am now talking about primary schools. For it is the primary school's job to be the common school for all children, and therefore I look forward to getting an invitation for us to come to Vollsmose and visit H.C. Andersen-Skolen, where 97%. of the children are of a different ethnic background than Danish. Can the Minister confirm that the Minister would like to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103509	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103511	Now I've been chosen in the area where Vollsmose is located, so I think the number of times I've gone up and down in the stairwells in Bøgeparken is endless. We can go back to Vollsmose if the radical rapporteur wishes. I think it is being insinuated that we should have a desire not to have free primary schools. That is actually not the case. What we are discussing here is whether we should have the same switching rate as last time, the Radical Left and the Social Democrats were in government with each other. So the debate here is about whether the coupling rate should be the same as it was the last time we had government power together, and that is at a time when, in my opinion, it was quite reasonable. For then it lay in a place where there was a surplus which allowed you to save, but not a greater surplus than that, and I think that is a reasonable level. I think that there should be some kind of reason and coherence between the money that you set aside for something and the task that is being undertaken, and if you can see that some parts of our public sector are running with fairly large accounting profits, then it is my best belief that you have to find a way to spend that money better somewhere else. Then I would like to say that it is vital for us that there are also some who challenge the way in which education is conducted by the state. So this is not an attack on the idea of free schools on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103621	Then it's Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103622	Then I shall make it clear about savings, paragraph 1: The free schools are not able to borrow money in a bank when they have to put new roofs on a school. No banks want to borrow for a free school. That is why they have to save up, and that is, whether it is a private school, it is a free school, it is a small school, or whatever it is. Point 2: Coupling rate of 75%. In the opinion of the Radical Left, the balance is the sensible balance. Then we have agreed to increase the 75%. 1 percentage point for special educational activities in free schools, and we stand by that and we have no desire to find a different balance. Because there is no better balance than 75% if you ask a radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103703	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103704	But we have become aware of this in the negotiating room and have found that there is no majority. So it is not on our ticket that this debate is being held today. We have recognised that there is not a majority in the Danish Parliament behind this, as we have known for a long time, and now we have also recognised at the negotiating table that it wants the other parties sitting and negotiating finance law not to be involved, and that is why we have taken the proposal off the table. Where I am a little concerned about what the radical rapporteur says is that it is being insinuated that we should have a problem with the existence of the primary schools. Several rapporteurs in here have said so. We do not, and this means that the fact that the coupling rate is raised and reduced at different times in the history of Denmark does not mean that one is either completely opposed or totally opposed. There I simply think the debate will be too black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103747	Thank you. Then it's Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103748	Thank you. Now I noticed that the minister said this with the coupling rate. A great many free schools were opened when the coupler rate was down to 71 per cent. Now I am a school teacher myself and have been for 10 years, and I remember when the minister's own party made the completely misguided school reform, how parents also sought away from the primary school and just went and opened them up. So I just want the minister to confirm that this big boom in free schools, among other things. is based on the fact that the Minister's party leads and conducted a completely misguided school policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103833	Okay, maybe it was still a hope I don't think I can accommodate. I think it is something different from the school reform, and nevertheless something introduced by the Social Democrats. But I don't think it was the school reform. I think it was inclusion. I think there is a combination of two things that have given a boost to private schools and free schools, namely 1) municipal reform and 2) inclusion. The two things I think have helped a great many parents have chosen not to be in the local primary school. I mean, we've seen the increase that's been going on. Then there may be other things, including the fact that there are local schools, but it is a little different debate and it gets too far here. But I think that these are the two things, and that means that yes, we have a share of responsibility for this and therefore also a responsibility for cleaning up. Inclusion was, of course, something that was widely adopted in the Folketing. We were banner leaders for this, and I believe that in many places the resources that were needed simply did not go with them, which means that children who had a need for support did not get the help they needed. Conversely, there were also children who were in classes where it was simply impossible to complete a teaching. ♪ 'Cause there was... ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103938	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121103939	I would, in fact, agree with the Minister that the inclusion reform was also totally misguided and a serious saving exercise on some of those who are most in need of help in our society. So I'd like to back that up. Of course, the combination of the two has also meant that a great many people opt out of primary school. That is why we in the New Citizens' Party are so positive that parents really have a free choice, because they must have that. However, I agree with the Minister that the inclusion reform was also completely missed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104012	I think that instead we should use our energies to ensure that schools are present in all parts of Denmark. I think that is the one thing we should, in conclusion to what the rapporteur says, ensure that schools are present in all parts of Denmark. I believe that this is our common task, and secondly, to correct inclusion. Because it is fine that there are some who can then choose from, but there are others who cannot, and they are then left. That is to say, I think that there is a very large common task in getting things done about the inclusion situation in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104046	Then it's Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104047	Thank you very much. It doesn't quite add up, I think. I hear the Minister talking about the advantages of the free schools and talking about the fact that they are undertaking an important task. I myself know from Funen that there are a lot of places where we have free schools today, but where otherwise there is no school nearby. At the same time, there is a desire to draw 300 million. kr. in the sector with some justification that some have saved up. I do not understand why we do not start by saying that we have a sector here that we need to protect. Then maybe there are some things you want to adjust. But no, they say they get too much money and they say they're spoiled. They get about three quarters of what an ordinary primary school gets. Is that being spoiled? Is it getting too much? So we did not think so in the Danish People's Party. Nor do I think that this is linked to the arguments used by the Minister when she talks about the sector actually undertaking a very important task. So how does it work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104150	It does it a little the same way as when we, for example, did. jointly adjusted the building taximeter of the upper secondary schools. It is, of course, a question of us sometimes spending some money elsewhere. Then we'll look at where that money could be found. They could see that on the building taximeter of the upper secondary schools. It's a deal we just made with each other so we can spend the fucking money. What we have done here is that we have looked beyond the sector and then we have looked at where we think more has been turned up than necessary in relation to where there is not. We have a desire to see more people entering the day institutions. We have a desire to remove the re-priority contribution. And one of the places where we could give funding was a place where the profits have increased sixfold. After all, it is not quite the same situation that has been in our day-care institutions, or indeed in our youth education, that has been subject to the re-prioritisation contribution. We have had a desire to strike a balance in terms of how much money was received. We do not believe that this has been the case before. That is the balance we wanted to redress. It's not different. Nor do I believe that the rapporteur sees it as an outright attack on upper secondary education that we have found some money on the building taximeter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104257	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104259	In fact, we do not think that, in the context of the agreement we have just reached, we accept that, of course, because it was an old agreement that we should find the money that was in order, that the minister was forced to find the money in the field of high school, when you now have room for manoeuvre. And when we have a government that has said very clearly that we must invest in education, that we must ensure that more funds are given for education, it is strange that we will not even give priority to the new education, which we agree should use the funds, in the great room for manoeuvre, but insist on taking them away from the small colleges.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104337	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104338	It is also a very good debate. We shall have occasion to take that. My point was actually rather that when the rapporteur equates the fact that we want to turn down the coupling rate, and an attack on the free and private schools, I just say that when we turn down the building taximeter in the high schools, I have not heard anyone say that it is a wish that we want to close a lot of high schools or that we are against the high school sector or the like. I would just like the same nuances in this debate. We don't have a desire to starve anyone or anything. We just look out and see where there is a lot of money now and what tasks you solve. There we think that, in relation to the task we are doing, there has been an equal amount of money compared to what we have in other areas of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104416	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104428	Thank you, President. After all, today we are discussing a motion for a resolution from the Liberal Alliance which, if I may say so, will lock down support for private schools at a certain level. It is true, as the Minister has also mentioned, and as the authors of the motion also write in the explanatory statement, that this started with a discussion about what the right level of support is for support for free and private schools in relation to primary schools. It has the government travelled with open eyes; knowing that not all schools had more money on the coffin floor; knowing that there are very many places in the public sector where you are on narrow diets. We said that, in fact, we think we can make a level of support similar to what we had a few years ago, which was decided by the previous V-led government in 2010, i.e. the level of aid of 71 per cent. This has not, of course, meant that there were fewer free and private schools during the period we have been through afterwards. At the same time, however, we could see that over a number of years there was a growing surplus in the sector as a whole. So we said, can we do the smarter thing? Can we both save some money because there is money in this area, but also secure the free and private schools that carry out a special social task or which are located in a place where there was a primary school and where there is no longer a primary school? We need to keep our hands under them so that we avoid school closures and, incidentally, the somewhat violent debate that has been going on about how much the consequences would be. I believe that Detector and others have tried to find evidence of the claims that have been described about how many school closures it would entail, and it has actually been a little difficult to make it tangible. But there is no doubt that for us it is clear that there are places in the country where there is no longer a primary school and where the free school or the private school • but the often free schools out there • actually carry out the task that they are the local school. This helps to ensure the community that is in the local area, and this is of course extremely important. Like us, we recognise the importance of free and private schools lifting a great deal of social responsibility. So I would like the debate to be a little more nuanced, not just about free and private schools, but also about what kind of free and private schools actually contribute to the community locally, and what kind of free and private schools that in some places stamp out it. Well, I think that's an answer to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. The Minister has examined, at the request of the rapporteur of the Left, the number of specialist pupils in the free and private schools. And the answer shows that there are 98 free and private schools which have no special education hours. It says something about the fact that, just as there are some free and private schools that carry out a major task, there are also some who do not. We have seen that one of the most common reasons why free and private schools print pupils is psychological or social difficulties. I think we need to discuss this with each other quite openly without making it an ideological crusade or, by the way, a completely unmotivated attack on a particular school tradition in Denmark. That is also why, together with the parties in the circle of understanding, those who brought the government to power, we have written that we would like to look at how to set up a social taximeter so that, like ensuring that the way we support the free and private schools supports their social responsibility. So to the debate on the motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance: it is well known that the Liberal Alliance believes that the coupling rate should be higher, and I have even heard that it has been said in the past that it should be even higher. Now it has to be at least 76%. But I am a little out of comprehension about what it is that you want the Folketing to decide or what should be of security in it. We have taken the proposal to reduce the coupling percentage of the table because there is no majority in the Folketing. Now we want it to be decided today that it should not be lower than 76%, but it will only last until, if necessary, a new majority in the Folketing. That's why there's not much security in it. We note that there is no majority in favour of reducing the coupling rate; this is not going to happen right now, whether or not the Liberal Alliance proposal is adopted. I would like to ask whether the Left, whether the Liberal Alliance, whether some of the parties that now think it might be locked, do not think that what was done in 2010 was a sensible priority, where it was said: what is the overall economic challenge; do we have to tighten the belt, including at free and private schools? Because that's what they did. And that will not be possible if a certain percentage of coupling is actually to be determined. As far as it is concerned, rather than setting an eternal level of where it should be, I would rather discuss how to set up the system so that it supports a better balance, including in the free and private schools. We need that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104938	There are brief comments. First it's Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121104940	Well, I'd like to answer the question. In other words, what the resolution calls for is to calm the economy of the free schools precisely for the reasons that Mrs Marianne Jelved has so accurately drawn attention to the particular economic conditions. In the situation under review by the radical rapporteur, it is a good idea that there is tranquillity and predictability about the economy of schools. But the reason why I have come here is because I am surprised that the Social Democrats need to repeat their spin on the greed of free schools. The solidity of the free schools comes from the fact that they follow the Ministry of Education's requirements for equity capital. This is to do what is stated in the official provisions on own funds requirements. It's still gone because of the conditions around building maintenance etc. that you follow these rules. Then you couldn't get rid of this with greed and then just say they're following the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105051	I haven't said anything about greed, so we couldn't be free from putting words in each other's mouth. What I am saying is that there has been a development in which a surplus has increased sixfold, and one can of course discuss whether that development should continue. No matter how justified it is that you save for a new roof on the school, you can discuss whether it should continue. In fact, I think that we have taken it down, namely that there is no majority in favour of it right now. On the other hand, I am a little more doubtful about what the Liberal Alliance is trying to achieve with this resolution about calm and predictability, as I think the rapporteur called it. For the truth is that it is always a majority in the Folketing that decides, and right now there is the calmness and predictability of the coupling rate that there is not close to being a majority to change it. Okay, let's take some cutlery off of it. I'm sure free schools and private schools do that out there too. However, there is no certainty that the Liberal Alliance will be able to adopt a resolution because it can be changed tomorrow if there are some parties that are getting a new opinion on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105150	Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105152	I think that is a strange way of setting things up, because we have a system here in the Folketing, where we make agreements with each other, and it works day in day out, year out and year in. This is also a proposal for making an agreement, and it is on the terms on which agreements are usually made. I do not see that there is anything particularly mysterious about it. But I do not think I was given an answer to what I asked: can the rapporteur confirm that the vast majority of free schools simply comply with the requirements of equity and solidity, which come from the ministry led by the rapporteur's party colleague?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105234	Thank you. In fact, I think that when you dig into the figures, you see that there is quite a difference between how much the profits are in the individual schools. That was, in fact, the reason why we tabled a proposal to save money. It was not, after all, about taking some of the money that exists in the schools that they saved up last year. It was about avoiding continuing to accumulate at the same rate as had been done so far. But when there is a big difference out there, there will be some who have, if so to speak, padded themselves to be able to counter both building maintenance or other things that may hit schools. But there are also schools that will not be very well upholstered. That was why, in addition to the general lowering, we actually had a pool to take into account whether you were on the verge, i.e. whether you risked closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105318	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105319	Sir. Jens Joel wonders why we are saying that the social democracy here shows an ideological reluctance to free schools. Well, sir, that's what I'm gonna need. Jens Joel does not wonder at all, because that is very clear in the way you argue. When your arguments are not true arguments, but are spells and manipulations, we have to believe that it is because you have something against those schools. To this point, because they have made a huge profit in recent years, I would say: well, it is a little bigger than it has been in the past, but it is something they need to modernize their buildings. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Jens Joel: Isn't that sir? Jens Joel's impression, just as I have the impression that when you move around the country, the free schools have no better buildings than the folk schools. On the contrary, they have poorer and less modern buildings than the folk schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105413	I do not know whether I have been to all schools in relation to being able to make a general conclusion, but I would say that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is probably right in saying that there are a lot of free and private schools that need to do something about their buildings, just as there are a lot of primary schools that need to do something about their buildings. Next week we will be discussing a proposal from the Danish People's Party, which is about the indoor climate in the folk schools, where there are at least quite a lot of things to be done, because we are challenged on the building stock in the schools in general. What we are discussing here is not about manipulations. On the contrary, I think it could be said that if we say that the savings that have been made now are to renovate, then my question to the Liberal Alliance is, of course, whether you really think it would be appropriate to continue the increase in that savings. Well, is it necessary to be able to renovate, or do you have the money you need now? Because that is what I think is the interesting discussion; not whether you should take the money because no one has actually proposed that has been saved and accumulated over the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105522	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105524	I think that, as rapporteur for the Prime Minister's Party, it should be known that this is the general picture out there that if there is a big sparkling new school somewhere in the country or in many places in the country, then it is not a private school. I fully agree that some primary schools still need renovation, and this is being done continuously. The old and very worn-out schools are private schools and free schools. So the Socialist Education Rapporteur should know that this is the case out there. That is why we cannot continue to problematize the fact that in recent years there has been a little more surplus in the free schools, because they need to use the money to get better buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105608	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105609	Well, then, I would call on the Liberal Alliance to discuss how much the profits will have to be in order to renovate those buildings, because then we will get into a substantive discussion about what is being saved up for. We have not actually said that the money that has now been saved in the sector is not one that can be spent on new roofs or on renovating the school. We fully recognise that there are also free and private schools with a need for renovation, as well as primary schools. Speaking of manipulation, you should be careful not to give the impression that the public schools in this country are all glisteningly new out there, because that is not enough either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105646	Then it's Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105649	Thank you. The more you listen to the Social Democrats in this debate, the more clear it becomes that this is only an ideological crusade against free school elections, against the rights that have basically existed since 1855, and which are part of a strong, strong Danish school tradition, where parents have the right to choose the school offer that is best for their children. I find it sad that the Socialists in no way take note of the fact that neither in the people nor here in the Folketing is there support for the ideological crusade of the Social Democrats. The Minister said earlier that the Social Democrats' proposal for redistribution is to ensure that the places where there is a free school close to a primary school are not to be supported. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, can be more specific about that. For I am taking Middels Friskole, which is located in Hell on Als ^ and it may well be that this is where the Social Democrats want the free basic schools to go and then it is about 3 km and even less in the airline from the local primary school. In the view of the Socialist Group, should it lose its support? Is that what we need to understand with redistribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105801	I simply think it is quite crazy that one should be shot in the shoes, that when we propose a switching rate at the same level as the then Left Government set in 2010, that is to say 71 per cent, which was in force for a period not too many years ago, when, by the way, there were no fewer, but more free and private schools, it is an ideological crusade. When the Left Government proposed this, it was, it must be understood, a good and sensible economic priority for scarce resources. That's why we're here. That is the job of politicians, and that is why I really think we should not accuse each other of having motives that we do not have. When we raise a priority debate here, it is no more an ideological crusade than it was when the Left raised that priority debate in the context of the recovery package. But one can easily disagree, and yes, we can see that there is no majority in favour of this proposal. That's actually why it's been taken off the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105903	Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105905	The rapporteur does not answer the question at all. Neither did the Minister, and indeed it is because the Socialists have not given a concrete offer, either in the run-up to the parliamentary elections or after the parliamentary elections, as to how the Socialists want to redistribute the money. That is why you just have to take down the fact that this is about fundamental opposition to free primary schools, more than it is because the Socialists have a good plan for redistribution. Because no one else can hear about what it contains. I also have to say that when the rapporteur is, as it were, standing and comparing the situation after the financial crisis, a global financial crisis that has destroyed the economies of countries and the economies of private people, with the economic situation that Denmark is facing today, where we have hardly been any stronger economically, that makes no sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121105950	In fact, I am not sure that I am comparing the economic situation we are in now with the one we were in after the financial crisis. What I am saying is that economic priority was given at the time and that it was not an ideological crusade. That's what you think it is now. I cannot understand why, when the Left does that, it is okay, and then it is not against the private schools, but if the Social Democratic Party proposes it, then it is problematic. That is really just what I think we should do, because it is easy to say, as the Left has done, that they do not agree that it is necessary or beneficial to save free and private schools now, and that we can also have a discussion which I hope we will have on how to better organise the system. The fact that we are going to have that discussion about ensuring greater social responsibility everywhere is also what we have launched in the paper of understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110034	Mai Mercado, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110038	It is obvious that there is a difference between making a very, very hard tightening up in a time of crisis and then standing with a strong economy and reducing the coupling rate. Sometimes we also have to be careful about putting words into each other's mouths, and I would just like to ask a few questions about the nuances, because the rapporteur may well be somewhere else. So I'm just gonna ask sir. Jens Joel, is he also of the opinion that children go to school for the sake of society, and I would also like to ask whether Mr. Jens Joel agrees that you turn your back on the community if you choose a free school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110110	There may be many reasons why you choose a free school or a private school. When I say that there are some schools • It is not so much the individuals, not so much the parents • who do not take pupils with e.g. special education needs, or which do not reflect the population of an area, or which otherwise stamp out it, e.g. By printing pupils, sometimes even without hearing them first, on the basis of some psychological or social difficulties, I believe that the schools will turn their backs on the community if they do not support it. I cannot see through the background of individual parents to choose a free school or a private school, and I do not want to judge that either. What I want is a system in which we support the free schools, the private schools that actually take social responsibility, when we actually have a relatively large free school and private school sector in Denmark, because I think that would be wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110213	Mai Mercado, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110217	Now, I think that was really interesting, and in fact I would also like to thank you for being frank as well. After all, the rapporteur does not say that free schools collectively withdraw from the community, turn their backs on the community, and that means that this is something the Minister of Education is left alone with. I thought it was really nice to get settled, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110238	You can always make a strawman. The Minister of Education said, moreover, four or five times a minute ago, when the Minister was on the platform, that there is a great difference between free schools and private schools, and that we will not have a good debate if we continue to make it one lump. On the contrary, we need to look at the fact that there is a huge difference between what they promise of tasks. That is exactly what I actually think I said, and that is not contrary to what the Minister said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110303	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Jens Joel. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110321	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance for presenting the motion for a resolution we are debating today. I would like to say from the Left that we will support it and vote in favour of it, and we think that, in the situation we are in, it is quite right that we should also take that discussion here in Parliament and not only in the negotiating corridors in the Ministry of Finance, where few parties have been invited. I think that today's debate has already shown why it is so important for this resolution to be debated today, and I also hope that some of the parties involved in financial law negotiations with the government will also support and support the resolution. For the Minister's speech and the Socialist rapporteur's speech show exactly why there is still insecurity among both parents and in the sector of free primary schools in general, their teachers and in general, because we have a government which, despite the fact that a broad majority in the Folketing does not want to lower the coupling rate, continues to lead an ideological crusade against the free primary schools and clearly says today that it still has a desire to lower the coupling rate. That is why I and we in the Left believe that it would be a very strong signal if we could adopt the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance together, because it would create peace and stability in the economic situation of the free primary schools. For us in the Left, this is basically about free school elections. It is about ensuring that all children and their parents have the right to choose the school offer that suits their child. Behind all the about 120,000 children who attend a free primary school in Denmark, there is a unique story. For some it is about a pedagogical choice, a choice of a particular type of teaching, while for others it is about having a free primary school in your neighbourhood, which has basically become the local school, which you support and which is part of the local community, and which is important, also for the cohesion of the urban community and the rural area. For others, it is a matter of having a child who has not thrived in another school, and whether it is one, another or third reason behind the choice of school that has been made, we in the Left believe that it is important that everyone has free choice of school, that it is not a government that is conducting an ideological battle against the right of parents to choose the school offer that is best for their children. All you need to know is that if you lower the rate of coupling and yes, it was necessary, after the global financial crisis had also got its roof in Denmark, to reduce for a few years and then to withdraw again, we also know that this will result in a higher parental pay and thus a reduction in free school choice, in particular a limitation for those families with less money available. That is why it also has a huge social battle side if you lower the link rate to the free primary schools, because it will precisely mean that it is the families who have a lot of money at their disposal that will have a greater opportunity to choose a free primary school for their children. I think that Dorte Lange, who is Vice-President of the Danish Teachers' Association, said it very well on Twitter when the debate was going on and where both Social Democrats and others were just saying that they wanted to save 300 million. kr. At the end of the year, she said that it would not be possible to strengthen the primary school by quoting the conditions of free schools. And I just have to say that on the Left side we could not agree more. We must have both a strong primary school, a strong primary school, which lifts all children and young people, a strong primary school, where pupils and teachers thrive, where we have a strong education and working environment, where we have a primary school that both professionally and well-being promises the pupils and we must also have strong free primary schools, because it is not a either-or, it is a boat-and-a-half, and it is part of the educational and school tradition that we have had in Denmark for more than a century, back from 1855, when the first agreements on the right to create our own school were founded. That is why we in the Left hope that Parliament can fully support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance, because it will send out a signal that we want peace in the sector, that we stand guard over the free choice of all parents and that we basically want a strong school in Denmark, whatever it is, whether it is a strong primary school or it is a strong free primary school. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110801	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110806	Thank you. I just want to ask about something purely factual. For the Left's rapporteur says that when the switching rate was reduced, it was the parents who paid, and that resulted in a greater inequality. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur of the Left can confirm that under the former Left Government, where the coupling rate was raised, the parental payments were also increased in those years. So there is no coherence, as the rapporteur otherwise claims.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110841	Of course there is a connection, and it is basically about a large number of schools in the few years when the switching rate was reduced, in many places the utmost and also in some places actually freed the parents, and in other places you had to set up the parental pay there are also differences and variations. After those years, after the recovery package, which was, after all, a very tough decision and which, contrary to what the Socialists stand for, was not an ideological opposition to the free primary schools or to the free school elections in Denmark, there were very many of the schools that subsequently, with the resolution for the 2016 Finance Act, needed to reconsolidate their finances. I hope, then, that by increasing the percentage of social transfers from 75 to 76 we will see that this will mean that even more free primary schools will have greater social responsibility. That is why we have introduced the social coupling rate, and we will also be supporting that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110939	Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110942	You need a lot of words if you're gonna talk about this. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that while the switching rate increased, parental payments have also increased over recent years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121110954	I kind of thought I answered in the first round. And I actually think I replied in more detail than the Socialists, including the Minister, who used unlikelyly many people in question not to give a single answer as to how the Socialists want to redistribute between schools, even though we asked before the elections, after the elections, and have now asked again today. Then we should not try to see if we could get a little precise answers from those who have the power of government, namely: what is it you really want when you want to save 300 million? kr. in the free primary schools in Denmark? It is not a wish we share on the part of the Left, precisely because we also want it to be accessible to everyone to choose a free primary school for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111029	I do not see any more who have asked for short remarks, and therefore we move on to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111039	It has been sad to witness the Social Democratic attack on free schools. The government will save 300 million. kr. the public contribution to the country's many free schools, which are not least widespread outside the main cities. It is a severe blow to the province, which must already suffer from the fact that the government, with its financial bill, will also remove the broadband pool which has otherwise helped to spread fast broadband in the more sparsely populated parts of the country. It is also paradoxical that, for a long time, we have been bombarded with messages that it is irresponsible to save on education and that educational provision must be guaranteed, even outside large cities. Only yesterday there was a consultation in the Committee on Rural Development with the Minister for Research and Education on precisely rural education. I had hoped to learn more about the government's specific ambitions in this area. It was a closed consultation, so I'm not going to report from the room, but I can just say that I wasn't much smarter about the government's ambitions when I got out of the room than when I went into it. And perhaps that is why the government still wants to cut the subsidy to the free schools. As Minister of Finance Nicolai Wammen, according to DR's news that the government is dropping the proposal to save DKK 300 million. Annually to the country's free and private schools: • There is no agreement on this among the parties with which we negotiate. That is why it will not be part of the further negotiations that we wanted to save 300 million. kr. Annually at the country's free and private schools. ▪ The government's attack on the free school is wrapped in such a technical jargon that they just reduce that switching rate from 76 to 71. It may not sound so bad, but it means 300 million. kr. less to the free schools. That would be something that could be felt. After all, the percentage of connections is a reflection of the fact that a student in a free school receives less subsidies from the state than a student in a primary school class. A ratio of 71 thus means that the free schools per year. student only gets 71 percent. of what a primary school receives in grants per year. student. That is why it is quite ridiculous when the Socialists have been trying for a long time to wrap their attacks on the free school into a rhetoric that they are being overpaid; surely they do not! They are getting considerably less funding per year. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter, and whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. That is why I very much hope that today we can agree to provide security for these schools so that they do not have to keep going into uncertainty about whether the subsidy is going one way or whether it is going the other way; can we be there tomorrow, or can we not be there tomorrow? Let's get the clutch rate fixed. And that is why, of course, we support the Liberal Alliance's proposal to lock it at the 76 per cent. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111332	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111335	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In fact, I believe that the rapporteur kept himself too good to call it an ideological crusade and greed and some of the other things that we have been accused of, but the rapporteur said that it was sad that there was a desire to prune. I would just like to ask whether that was also the background when the last time was chosen to reduce the coupling rate to 71, and whether DF also thought it was sad, even if they contributed to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111412	Yeah, we thought that was sad. That was part of a necessary plan at the time, and that is a different situation we are in today. We have a good economy today and we have a government today that talks about supporting education, that we need more money for education, and yet there is a proposal to cut back. So, yes, that was another situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111434	Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111438	Does the rapporteur think that there is a certain level that is naturalised for the support of free and private schools? Because you can have that attitude. I think I would think it was very logical that we always reserve the right to give priority to funds, just as when the DF last supported cutting down. So does the rapporteur think that there is a certain level of God-given education, which is exactly the right one, because how much private schools should have, and is it 76 per cent, which happened to be fixed at a few years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111513	I believe that what is at the heart of private and free schools is that they have a fixed level. If you see it over time, it's been around those 75 percent. for very, very many years. Actually, I think that's about it. Three-quarters of what you get in a primary school is a very sensible level in terms of ensuring that free schools can be there in a proper way and that they can also survive in the countryside, where they will actually have a problem if the way the government has put in place is reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111543	We thank Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, there are no more brief remarks and move on to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. I'm sorry! I understand that it is perhaps Marianne Jelved who is the rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121111604	Thank you. As I have said earlier today and on other occasions, the Radical Left is in favour of maintaining the 75 plus 1 ratio for special education in the free schools. There is something in this debate that really bothers me, not to say provokes me, and I have indicated it in a question earlier today, but I repeat it just now. There are many commendable words from various rapporteurs, and hence from various parties, that free schools can replace a closed small primary school in a village community. This provokes me very much, because it is not at all the task of the free school. But they do because of their parents'choice. Parents have the freedom to choose on the basis of freedom in the law on free schools. However, with the rhetoric we are using here, we risk giving indulgence to municipal councils, which close the small schools in a fresh and cowardly manner because they know that there will be a free school afterwards. And so the municipal council actually gets a very cheap school supply. It is a quote from one of the mayors who has noted this phenomenon with satisfaction in reality. And in this way it will also be easy for municipal councils to close a small public school instead of trying to get a different structure in their school districts etc. I think we should take an interest in this on occasion, not necessarily in the Assembly Chamber, but in debates and discussions on how the future of the primary school can be. Because what we are discussing here is among other things. I was just about to say forceful way of taking over the school districts from the small ordinary primary schools. Then I note that the Socialists say that they would like to support the small schools that take a social responsibility that was a quote. I think that sounds like an excellent headline to me, but I would nevertheless like to question it. How, then, do we define taking social responsibility? How do we decide that parents should voluntarily choose the small free school in a way that means that there will be a certain kind of diversity in the small free school? I would actually like to discuss this with interest as to what considerations are being considered when we use the wording of supporting small schools which take social responsibility. I would like to do so, but I would like to know on what basis and how, and I have not heard that today. But we can return to that at another time somewhere else. However, I would just like to stress for reasons of principle that it is not the responsibility of free schools to have a different composition of pupils. Some of those schools, especially private schools, are ancient, to put it bluntly. I used to be a temp at Taastrup Real School, oceans of years ago. It was a private school, but it was always there, and it grew big because it was at one point the only real school in that area, and therefore there is a large school there, which is a private school. It was just to take an example. So what is really making it quite difficult to have a serious discussion about the issues raised by the Socialists, which I understand in a way, I would like to emphasise. But when I have the knowledge I have about the basis for setting up a free school, I just don't have the good answer to it. But we should not, of course, refuse to discuss how to find a good answer to it. And I certainly wouldn't deny that. So I would say that the Radical Left is in favour of another way of contributing to the free schools being given the opportunity to lift social responsibility. This was something I discussed with the former Social Democratic Minister for Education, Christine Antorini, and we actually agreed on this when we went to a parliamentary election together, namely to say that the municipalities should very much like to point out to a child who needs to get a different kind of schooling from the primary school that is otherwise available, and then it is the municipality that pays the parental fee for that child to the free school, and parents must of course accept that this is the way to go, and of course the school must also nod yes to them undertaking that task. So I also believe that we could help to find ways of creating a slightly more varied school, if that is what the task is or what we would like to do. But I would like to take a step and say that under that line I am putting all that together and saying that for me and for the Radical Left it is absolutely essential that the free school be maintained as the free school, which is chosen by the parents themselves and financed partly by the parents at an appropriate level. And there is the level that is appropriate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112127	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112130	Thank you. I would like to sign for the rapporteur's openness on the challenges we share and the commitment to discuss what we can do about it. I would also like to say in relation to what the rapporteur says about the fact that we should not give a running pass to municipal councils, which means that some schools are almost closed on the expectation that some others will take up the task, that we would also like to discuss this, that is to say that balance. I agree with that, and the Minister also said that some of what has given a boost to the free and private schools has been the municipal reform and centralisation that has resulted from this. So we need to talk openly and honestly about how to get the checkouts up. And then we also agreed prior to the formation of the government that we would look at it here, i.e. examine the possibilities of doing what might be called a social taximeter, or at least a taximeter that supports and rewards the schools that actually choose to engage in taking responsibility for society. And it is probably not the same way that it should be done in all schools, but it is at least important in the eyes of the Social Democratic Party that we should strike a balance where we are not punished but, on the contrary, rewarded for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112240	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112245	Thank you. We are completely behind the understanding paper, so that, as Mr. Jens Joels says there, we can't argue about. But let me just take another example, which I think we should take into this context and pay attention to just for the sake of completeness: that we have a school in Vollsmose, and we have a school in Aarhus, both of which are excellent schools with excellent teachers, educators and management, and they are well equipped and so on, and yet they have an incredibly one-sided pupil composition: over 95%. of the students have a different ethnic background than Danish. And they are in ordinary municipalities, I would say Odense and Aarhus are ordinary municipalities in my view. This is also an issue that I would very much like to say when we talk about social responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112328	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112331	I agree with that. And I would also like to say, in relation to one of the schools I know well, that Søndervangskolen in Aarhus, you just have to say that it's a good management, it's skilled teachers, it's progressing, also in the professional field, and therefore you can't blame them for the way they run school. However, I still think that we owe it to us to have a political discussion, whether it is appropriate for the composition of pupils to be so different from that of many other places. And that is why we must always keep up with the fact that you can run a good school without having the social balance. That's what we have to try to take responsibility for... they're gonna run the school with the kids they have at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112408	Here you go, Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112412	Nevertheless, it is in my way of looking at society that we also ensure that there is a mixed composition of pupils in this area. And on this occasion, the Radical Left has actually made some models for how to work to change such issues, for example. by means of changes in school districts. So it's just to get the whole thing together, it's not just the free schools that we're going to discuss these kinds of issues with; it's also the public schools. And we are in favour of the fact that the primary school is a fantastic good primary school. It is a common public school that can take all children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112450	Then it's Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112451	I would just like to thank Mrs Marianne Jelved for a very good rapporteur speech, and I know that Mrs Marianne Jelved has been a teacher for many years before her work here in Parliament. What characterises good teachers is precisely the ability to give students an aha experience, and the aha experience for which I would like to thank you is that we should not discuss free schools and primary schools as a zero-sum game. That is the word we are missing, and the whole idea of setting it up as a zero-sum game is incredibly wrong. These are two different forms of school which have two different rationales, and that is what matters. I also think it is good to remind you of the fact that these free schools often go a long way back, because before 1958 we could not get a real degree in rural areas. That is why they are located in rural areas. That's why, under the rural scheme, which was not so many years ago, these schools were founded. The fact that you just have to say that now they have done their job and now they can unpack themselves is a strange rationale. Thank you for a good rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112601	Thank you very much for the words to the LA rapporteur. I would like to supplement the picture that was drawn here by mentioning Natalie Zahle's School, which also has its own history, because in fact there was a woman leader who formed her own school because otherwise she could not get the drain on her abilities and his willingness to create a good school, and therefore we have that school lying in the middle of Copenhagen. So it is again a story that I think we should take on board and accept that it is there. It should not be the story that determines what future we are giving to the free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112642	Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112648	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved for a very, very good speech, of which I fully share the content. There has been quite a lot of envy, it has to be said, from the Socialists, in relation to some free primary schools having had a savings. We have also heard about, for example. Bordings Friskole in Copenhagen, which has saved up for windows, and others that save up for other things. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether the radical rapporteur cannot help both confirming and putting a few words on the fact that, unlike the primary school, there is no distinction in the budgets of the free primary schools between what is needed for teaching and what is needed for installations or maintenance and other things, and that it is therefore de facto the ratio of coupling must cover everything and that it is, of course, the responsibility of a responsible board to save if renovations or expansions are to be carried out or otherwise change the building stock. This contrasts with the primary school, which often has a construction budget, an operating budget, and also has a municipal council behind it that can intervene if there is mold at one end or something else. Because I think it is a dimension that has been somewhat lacking in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112757	Well, I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left, because it is crucial to see that the switching rate, the money we give parents together with the public to the free school, covers everything in the free school. This leads me to say that I could be tempted sometimes to try to make a little tighter rules on how the municipal authorities must manage the public schools. For there we really have sometimes got a stick in the wheel when we have made a school reform, where we predict that such and such it must be arranged and the school must bear the stamp of the reform that the Folketing has adopted, and then there is a very long way between the treats where you can see it. And there the municipality says many times: Well, we don't have enough money. So I also think that there is a problem when we talk about education, because education is what we live on our future and the education we give our children, regardless of the school form they choose, we as Parliament have a responsibility for, and I would like to contribute to discussing this, i.e. how we can tighten our course a little towards the municipal councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112902	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112906	Thank you for that answer. In other words, I think, when we talk about the primary schools, that we need to identify whether we cannot give more degrees of freedom, including more levels of management freedom, to the individual schools, in order to gain some of the dynamism and ownership that lies in the culture of free schools. However, in relation to some of what the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech on the whole issue of universal service, I also see a problem which relates to some of the smaller, free primary schools which lie in rural areas, namely that they have basically taken over the universal service from a primary school, and we also have to discuss what that means, because it gives some other constraints, including those of the free primary schools, than what was originally laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112948	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121112952	I was very pleased with that answer. Both in my question from the platform earlier today and up here I have tried to make it clear that the reason for the free schools must not be that they replace a public school which has been abandoned; I think that is actually wrong and that is why they must find another way of doing so. However, this is seen as a universal service, or a concession to supply, for the municipal council, and I would very much like to be involved in discussing this, including in the public domain.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113021	Mrs. Mai Mercado, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113028	I think there was a difference in nuance when you heard the Minister, and then you heard the Socialist rapporteur like that, like speaking for the whole of the Social Democrat Party, in relation to the issue of whether any stamps are out of the Community. I would just like to start with a completely open question, that is to say, whether Mrs Marianne Jelved thinks that as parents, if you choose a free school, you have chosen to turn your back on the community. So, are you punching out of the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113104	No, you don't. But I have a certain weakness. I might as well say this from the platform, because then no one needs to ask me questions and such more questions for the Social Democratic Party, and that is why I sometimes avoid pointing out such sentences that really provoke me violently. I am waiting for them to come to another time in private, because I do not want to have any quarrels with the Social Democratic Party. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113131	Then there are no further comments. Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113140	Thank you. A month ago, I, I think, visited the Green Free School in Copenhagen and was greatly inspired by everything they were doing, both because it was a free school that had recently arisen because some parents missed a different way of thinking about pedagogy, and also because it was some parents who missed a different way of thinking about indoor climates and thinking about buildings, and it was some parents who had missed a school with a different set of values before that school came, who then sat down with the impossible project to start a school that was supposed to be in the middle of Copenhagen. Today it is then a school built on sustainable materials, with a different pedagogy, with green curricula and with children from many different walks of life, and when I came home I was actually told: Wow, that school I wanted my children to go in one day. I know that it will probably not look so good if a SF sends its children to a free school or a private school so far it has been in the press, but I also came to think more generally about why it is that we have actually arranged ourselves so that parents who have a fire-good idea can do free schools, they can do a different pedagogy, they have freedom, and they can take advantage of the commitment they have, while there is not the same framework in the public school to do so. How cool it could be if you could have done the same with the local primary school! It was just a reflection and some of it that I would like to say a little more about in a moment. I believe that free primary schools are needed; SF believes that there is a need for parents to start schools as an educational alternative or if the municipal council has made a stupid choice about closing a school. That is why it is also important that there is an economy, that we have a regulatory framework and that we have legislation that will also ensure in future that we can maintain the strong free school and private school tradition that we have. I think that the last four years of school policy have been a failure, understood in the sense that I think it was a good thing that the linking rate was raised and that it was a good thing that the free primary schools were given priority, but I think it was wrong that, year after year, the free primary schools were given priority without giving priority to primary schools too. Then I know that the bourgeois will say that they created a school premium pool, which the school system was generally opposed to and which did not raise the primary school in general. There are figures today that show that the number of teaching positions has fallen significantly over the last four years. I would like us to be able to make a policy in the future where we have both strong free primary schools, but where we also strengthen the primary school financially and ensure that there is room for more teachers and also give the primary schools much more freedom than they do today. In the free basic schools • If I am going to talk a little about what SF's policy is there, for I think it is more interesting than some one-sided debate about what the Social Democratic Party has said some evening • it has been important for the SF for the last 41⁄2 years to strengthen supervision. We have succeeded in several rounds by a broad majority in here. We've had several unannounced inspections done, we've hired several people in the Board of Education and Quality, and we've tightened the legislation, and that's good. Now we are succeeding in our next case, which has also been important to us: strengthening student rights in free primary schools, and thank the Minister for taking it up. The last thing that has been important for the SF has been to set up a social-economic subsidy so that even more than today, the schools that take a great deal of social responsibility are rewarded and punished those who do not. There are plenty of free schools and private schools that lift social responsibility, and let them have more, while those who do not, those who do not take social responsibility, must have less. We had this written into the understanding paper and we look forward to having the debate on how we can organise such a grant. I note, moreover, that both the Free School Association and the Private School Association have also entered into that debate and said that they would like to discuss this, and I certainly think that they should be involved, rather than just doing so in the context of a financial law. Now I have 30 seconds left so I think I'll end by saying that we need to strengthen primary school; more economy, more freedom. We must have strong free primary schools, which have the same freedom as they do today, with a proper economic basis. For us, they're 76 percent. Not holy. We would like to have a social-economic subsidy and we would like to give the pupils more rights, and we look forward to having those debates during this parliamentary period, during which we hope to have a good school policy both for the free primary schools and for the primary schools, and that is why we are not voting for this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113659	Then there are a few brief comments. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113703	I think it is sad that the SF is not voting in favour of the motion for a resolution we are debating today, otherwise the SF has tried to indicate that it wanted to be calm about the economic situation in the free primary schools. That is what the motion for a resolution is all about. There is nothing in the motion for a resolution that contradicts the SF's wish that there should be a redistribution other than that which exists today. It doesn't say anything about that. That is why I would just like to ask: what exactly is the SF's argument for voting against? Is it that you're afraid to mess with the government? Or is it that we basically do not stand by what has been said so far, namely that we want peace and stability in the economy of free primary schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113752	We want calm, but I do not think that there will be any peace by voting in favour of this proposal, when there is a job that the SF, in any case, has got through in the intergovernmental negotiations, for a social financial contribution. For us in the SF, a switching rate of 76 has never been a sacred number or a target. Last time we went to the polls, we had to raise it to 74 per cent. Why is it that 76 percent? All of a sudden has become a sacred number? We would like to have the opportunity, in the negotiations with the free school sector and the private school sector, that if we find out that we are taking 1%. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances is an important step in the right direction. We do not have that option if we vote in favour of this proposal. So instead of locking me and SF to some motion for a resolution in this Chamber, I would much rather make a very good piece of legislation over there in the Ministry, which makes sure that the free schools and private schools are even more involved in social responsibility. Hopefully also with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113851	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113856	However, what the SF rapporteur is saying is simply wrong, namely that this motion for a resolution would mean that it would not be possible to make a redistribution under the coupling rate. Today, and the Minister has answered that in a question from me, it is the case that, under the coupling rate of the 76, the real switching rate to the individual schools varies between 65 per cent. 98 per cent and 98 per cent. It will be able to do so even if this resolution is adopted. So why is it that the SF will not vote in favour? Is this fundamental because you want to lower the coupling rate, just as the government does? Otherwise, it should be the easiest thing in the world to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121113939	Before you notice that someone is saying something that is factually and professionally wrong, you have to listen, because what I said was that SF would like to have the possibility, when we make this social economic subsidy, that if we find out that 76 per cent. is not the best number, but that 74 per cent. Maybe a better number can take the economy from the last 2%. and use it in a different way, for example. in the free primary schools. We want that opportunity. We do not have that with the proposal that lies here. It is true that with this proposal we can make an overall redistribution, but we will have more freedom than that when we sit in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114012	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114018	I think that is difficult for people outside Christiansborg to understand, i.e. that you will not vote for your own policy. Then it will be such a question of tactical considerations: yes, if you can get something with some other percentages and underlying calculations, and what may be of negotiation, then you would stand better. Well, I think that we should do what is intuitively the right thing to do, and that is to vote in favour of what is one's own policy. Well, then, sir. Jacob Mark doesn't just explain to me or just elaborate, why SF won't vote for its own policy in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114054	But then the rapporteur assumes that the proposal here is the SF's policy, what is wrong. SF's policy up to the elections, SF's policy over the last four years has been that the most important thing for us was to get a social economic grant. It was that the percentage was 76; it wasn't So, the most important thing for the SF has been to get a social economic grant, and they there 76 percent. is not a sacred number for us. What I hope we can end up in is a wide-ranging conciliation across the parties of the Folketing, where a redistribution mechanism is put in place that is even more social than it is today. And if what it takes to land that settlement is that we land at 74 per cent. or 75%, the SF can live with it. That is what the SF has been saying all along, but we have not wanted to make a general green harvester saving on the Finance Act, because then we did not get our social-economic subsidies and that is SF's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114152	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114155	I think that's hard to understand outside. On the one hand, the coupling rate can be reduced to 74; on the other hand, it has been said in public that there is no desire to reduce the coupling rate. There is something that is difficult to understand for ordinary people. I would really like to ask something quite different, and that is: over the years, the ratio of the coupling has been restored to the level it was, and I actually understand the rapporteur's wish to invest in the primary school, and to that I would just like to ask: at what level do you want to invest, i.e. in crowns and ears, and will we see it reflected in the future financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114235	I find it strange that the rapporteur speaks out for all ordinary people. I would not dare if I were a politician myself. But I can say that I trust that those listening understand that the most important thing for the SF is to get a social economic grant. It is not essential for us to land at 76 per cent.; the crucial thing for us is to have a social economic subsidy. And it is not our aim to save free primary schools. In addition, we have agreed to the negotiations on the Finance Act, with a bid to invest 400 million. kr. in the public schools next year and lasting 1 billion. kr. These are always negotiations with regard to the Finance Act, but I am convinced that there will be a boost and also a significant boost to the primary school. It is about time after 4 years, when the number of teacher posts in primary school has declined.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114317	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114321	Along with the current Minister of Justice, sir. Nick Hækkerup, and the Left Chairman, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, last year I published a political reference work, and the purpose of the political encyclopedia was to inaugurate the citizens of the country into the many more or less strange traditions we have in this country. In the paragraph on the motion for a resolution, you can read that there is a long tradition of voting against things that you agree with, in such a way, because you are in government or you are a support party for a government. I would just like to take this opportunity to say, sir. Jacob Mark, thank you for illustrating this fine point in our reference work about how political life is actually going on... so that with serenity you can vote against things you kind of agree with. And then it says at the end of the post that there is a long tradition in the Folketing to accept. That's gotta be the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114416	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114420	I'll always be supportive of sir. Henrik Dahl, when he advertises his own books, for Mr. Henrik Dahl writes well and exciting. However, I would like to say that Mr. Henrik Dahl comes to the conclusion that this motion for a resolution should be SF's policy. That is also what I just said to Mrs Mai Mercado. The SF's policy in the field of free school has been 1) strengthening supervision over the last 41⁄2 years, and it has succeeded in two stages, 2) strengthening student rights, and there is a bill on the way, and 3) making a social financial contribution. On the other hand, unlike most of the others in here, we have been reasonably unholy on the issue of the coupling rate. We want free primary schools to have an economy that allows them to operate well, but it has not been a sacred figure for us to land at 76 per cent. Now we have written into the understanding paper that you need a social-economic subsidy, so it seems that we can actually get our third case through if we do this properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114516	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114523	However, the consequence of the SF's position on this issue is simply that, on the one hand, a saving announced in the 2020 Finance Act will be withdrawn, but, on the other hand, there will be no peace of mind over these free schools, on which the rapporteur has just given a very detailed presentation. That is why the rapporteur must hopefully agree with me that it is rather odd that the government for which you are a support party should be forced to cancel a saving but, on the other hand, it will not bring about peace in the economy of the free schools. It is a form of school that you love, but which you obviously do not want to accommodate by giving it peace of mind about the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114556	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114600	We didn't want it in the Finance Act of the SF because it wasn't our policy. Our policy is what is in the paper of understanding that we have agreed with the government, and it was a victory for us during the negotiations that negotiations should be convened at the level of the Minister for Children and Education, where the free school sector and the private school sector should be involved, with a view to obtaining a social financial contribution. If we had voted in favour of the Finance Act as proposed by the Social Democratic Party, we would not have had it. So, of course, we're fighting it. What we want, however, is not achieved either by voting in favour of this proposal, so we are doing what we have agreed on in the understanding paper: we are working quietly towards a broad agreement on a social financial subsidy for the benefit of free schools, private schools and children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114637	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121114649	With the proposal of the Liberal Alliance, we have been given the opportunity to take another round of the seemingly recurring debate on the economy of free schools. For the last 8 to 10 years, the 'coupling' rate has been such a political battlefield, and the discussion we have had has also already seen a touch of it today has taken the form of this being used as a basis for an ideological and very fundamental debate on the free schools. We have no objection to such a fundamental debate. It may be a pity if it is carried too much by strawmen or by creating caricatures of others' views and then argues against them afterwards. But I would also like to say that I believe that we will also come to a place where the fundamental discussion can be repeated so often that, in this way, we ourselves are helping to create considerable uncertainty as to what the economy of free schools should be like. As you know, in the Enhedslisten we have chosen to reject the government's proposal to reduce the coupling rate to 71. We have not wanted to reduce the economy of the free schools in the context of the financial legislation negotiations, nor do we want to reduce the economy of the free schools in the coming years. I would also like to say that we share with many, I think, the concern about the movement we have seen in recent years taking place away from primary school to free schools. We believe that primary school is an essential foundation for our education system. It is a unique cultural institution in our society, and therefore it is worrying that many parents opt out of primary school in favour of free schools. Having said that, however, it is also our view that the way in which we deal with this problem should not, of course, be that we reduce the opportunities open to schools and private schools to run schools, but that we jointly lift primary school so that we make it a more attractive choice for parents. It is our political objective during the parliamentary term that we are in that we get a very strong boost from primary school. Having said that, we in the Enhedslist believe that it would be sensible for us to look at how the funds are then distributed between free and private schools. It has already emerged from the debate that behind the talk of a switching rate of 76 there are quite different subsidy sizes depending on whether it is a small school in rural areas or whether it is a large school inside our cities. We think it would be very sensible to look at the distribution and, as several have already mentioned, we have also made a joint agreement in the political understanding paper that we should look at a redistribution where, among other things, we have to look at it. must take into account, through a social taximeter, the provision of more funds to those schools that lift social responsibility, and less funding for those who less lift social responsibility. I would also like to say, when we are discussing this here, that it is very important for us that this discussion should take place in a very close dialogue with the organisations representing free schools and private schools. I think it would be very unfortunate if new models were to be drawn down over the free and private schools, without us having discussed this with them very carefully, and without trying everything we can, creating a consensus with the free world of schools on how to do this in the best way possible. At least that's our intention. I would also like to say that we have no desire to allow the Liberal Alliance to lay the foundations for that debate. I'm sure Mr. Henrik Dahl, that he then gets the opportunity to advertise his book once again. We do not believe that switching percentages have been carried down from the mountain on stone boards. On the other hand, we believe that it is insanely important that we do not undermine the economy of free schools. We will stand firm on this and then, in the further political debate, we will pursue the question of how to ensure a better distribution between schools and how we are going and that is probably our most important goal during that period... the primary school provides a boost so that parents see it more as an attractive first choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115149	Thank you. Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115152	Thank you for an initial fine speech; so thank you for clearly saying that you will not save, and also thank you for saying that you will involve the various associations that are when their relationship is to be discussed in a further process. I think it is going to be a little woolly, and I also think it is such a break-up that it should suddenly be about not wanting to vote in favour of a political proposal, because it must not be on the premises of the Liberal Alliance. In other words, this is about tabling resolutions, and then you vote for them if you agree, and against if you disagree. So I would actually just like to hear the rapporteur say whether one agrees with the resolution that is in place where the coupling rate is maintained at the current level, especially in view of the fact that not many weeks ago it was said that the coupling rate would not be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115248	We have the clear view that the economy of the free schools should not be undermined. You can handle that in a number of ways. As matters stand, we have no desire whatsoever to reduce the coupling rate. You have to say, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, who has now left, pointed out in this debate that there are closely related vessels between primary and free schools. If we must get through with our objective of spending a great deal of money on primary school, then it may be something that may be discussed at some point. But I would also like to say that the thing about telling us that this is gonna help calm down, we're not gonna buy. Well, I've taken note of what Mr. Henrik Dahl has previously stated what to do with the coupling rate if it is to the Liberal Alliance. You could read this on DR's website back in May this year, and the connection rate had to be set up to 80. So it is not a desire to try to create calm and consensus; it is an attempt to fix the coupling rate in the current situation and, moreover, give itself free rein to change it at the moment when there is another political majority. We don't want to be in that game.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115353	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115356	But couldn't we just try to leave the tactics just for a second? Because if you just follow the debate, it seems illogical and perhaps a little odd that there is a party that basically agrees that there should be no savings. It has been said publicly that you do not want to reduce the coupling rate. Then it seems intuitive to support a proposal that is about keeping the coupling rate at the current level. If, because it is evidently the Liberal Alliance that has put forward a proposal, we should not be able to vote in favour of the political proposal, then I would just like to appeal to the House to stick to its own policy and to vote in favour of what is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115442	We stick to our own policy. We have said quite clearly that we do not want to undermine the economy of free schools, and that is absolutely clear, even in the years to come. I think it is very important that we stick to the fact that what is at the heart is what it is for an economy to be fed. And perhaps this is the kind of thing I would say in double terms when, on the one hand, the happiness of a bourgeois majority has been reduced to the economy of the primary school over the last four years, with the extremely spillover effect it has in relation to the free schools, so now, on the other hand, will fight so heroically for the economy of free schools. I would say that the way in which political debate is handled does not really respect me very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115522	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115526	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Every day, as politicians, we all have to do everything we can to limit politics, and I am not sure that it is perhaps a fine day for the Folketing when, for tactical reasons, you vote against a proposal that you basically agree with, but of course people on the other side of the walls have to take a position on that. I want to hear a little more about Enhedslisten's school vision. Why do children basically go to school? Are children basically going to school for the sake of themselves and their own development as people, or is it to make some key figures in Danmarks Statistik fit better?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115616	Difficult question. No, I would say that it is not that simple, because it is not an either-or-or-and I do not think so either. Henrik Dahl means. Of course, children, and people at all, must train themselves to develop, to create good opportunities for the individual, not only in the labour market, but also in life as such, but at the same time we have a social responsibility for how we train. This is of enormous importance to the society that surrounds us. Creating a strong welfare society is therefore linked to how we run education and to ensuring that there are good educational opportunities for the individual. So creating such a contradiction between what is needed for the individual, what is the framework for individual development, and what is needed for society, is, in my view, a biased approach. We must respond to the needs of individuals, but also to the great common social interests of our education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115713	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115719	Mrs Marianne Jelved has explained very well that free schools are a right of freedom, and she has also pointed out that the child is going to school for the sake of herself. I just don't think I'm getting an answer to what I'm asking. How far into the free schools does the state need to penetrate to do social engineering? Is there some kind of limit here, stopping social engineering? I cannot be wise from the rapporteur's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115749	We cherish the free school tradition there is. It has actually been my impression that there were other parties, among others. Mr. Henrik Dahls, who was very concerned about restricting the freedom of schools during the previous reign. We have no desire to restrict the freedom of schools. We are defending the constitutional rights that we uphold in order to run free schools on a value-based basis, on a pedagogical basis, but, on the other hand, we are very little enthusiastic about what has already been in the debate when the municipalities starve local primary schools, so that it is the free schools that have to solve a task that should be the responsibility of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115827	Thank you. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115832	Thank you. I had been looking forward to today because here was actually a case where I thought that Enhedslisten and the Left agreed. And sometimes you have to notice these things. Because either one can be worried or one should be glad that the breadth of the popular rule can sometimes take some forms in which we recognise that we stand guard over the free choice of school and the right of parents to choose another offer for their children, or that in rural areas in many places one has no alternative but the free primary schools and it is therefore important that one does not cast doubt on their economy. That is why I was really saddened when I heard the Enhedslisten's last comments and the rapporteur's answer to the questions. For then it seems most of all as if we are just back in such a parliamental position against government policy that now the Enhedslisten has gone from being an opposition party to being a support party for the government, and therefore one no longer votes according to one's political beliefs, but according to such strategic considerations, in relation to sitting and doing financial law negotiations. And I think that is a pity, because I thought that Enhedslisten was such a fundamental party that was not subject to that kind of doctrine. That is why I would just like to ask the question: what exactly is it in the resolution that makes Enhedslisten unable to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121115951	Well, there's not really much variation in our approach to this case. We have always said that we have had no desire to undermine the economy of free schools. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby will also remember that, a few years ago, when the Social Democratic Party tabled amendments to the then government's Finance Act to lower the coupling rate from 75 to 71, we voted against. Now that the Socialist Government has put forward a proposal to lower the coupling rate to 71, we have made very clear in the financial law negotiations that we do not want to go into that. We do not want to undermine the economy of the free schools. On the other hand, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, 76 switching rates have not been carried down on stone tablets. It is also today composed in such a way that the overall switching rate is 75, and then we have specially made 1 per cent associated with the whole question of inclusion. We were not really very much in favour of the Left Government setting up the link rate, but when it was linked to the purpose of inclusion, we actually ended up voting in favour of the implementation of the concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120101	Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120102	Well, with all due respect, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, but I just don't think you or you answer the question at all. In other words, the whole argument in the answer is that we agree that there should be no deterioration in the free primary schools. That is why the natural thing should be to vote in favour of the resolution before us today, which states precisely that there should be no deterioration in the free primary schools and that we must therefore maintain the linking rate. And that is why I just have a great surprise that the Enhedslisten has apparently gone from being a fundamental opposition party to being a support party for a government that wants to cut free primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120140	Thank you. And there's no point in correcting from you to you. You don't talk directly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120147	After all, there is a heartfelt effort today to turn this into an ideological campaign again. And there is no reason for that. Well, I am sure that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby also has the agreement of 23 May 2010, when the then bourgeois government decided to lower the coupling rate, first from 75 to 74, then to 73 and to 72, then to 71. It was in this way a Left Government that implemented it. What is our position is: we do not believe that switching rates are the only starting point that can be taken in relation to the economy of free schools. But Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby can take my word that we have no desire to undermine the economy of free schools, and we will not participate in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120234	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120236	It is quite, quite difficult to understand that Enhedslisten insists on not supporting this proposal. So, Enhedslisten has repeatedly made it clear that one does not want to impair the conditions of free schools and private primary schools. When you want it and we also say: Well, we have a switching rate of 75 plus 1, which in general fits very well with what Enhedslisten wants you to have what on earth is it that we cannot freeze it at that level and like give the schools the certainty that they know what they have to do with? For it is quite clear that the present government has only temporarily suspended this. They have acknowledged that this financial law cannot do so, but they have also indicated that they will probably do so in the next financial law. So we're gonna have the fight again next year? Or should we say now: we ensure that the schools are stable, we ensure that they are properly maintained? Then we can move on, the schools can move on, and the government doesn't have to worry about having to deal with this one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120342	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120343	So, I repeat: we do not believe that the economy of free schools should be undermined. We have no wish to do so, and we will not be involved in it. We will not allow the Liberal Alliance in advance to set the premises for how the money is to be distributed to the free schools. I would also like to say that it would have been gratifying if there had also been a strong desire to actually secure the economy of free schools. What we are going to see over the next few years with the switching rate that we have is that the subsidy for free schools will fall, because the previous government has, after all, deteriorated the economy of the municipalities and has thereby reduced the economic base of the public schools. We can see that the way in which public schools have been dealt with financially in recent years is being examined. Well enough with three years' post-impact on the free schools. So it would have been nice if, instead of conducting ideological campaigns on this, the economy of educational institutions had been safeguarded. Had the folkeskole's finances been safeguarded, it would not have hit the free schools 3 years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120449	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120451	It is not true that the economy of the municipalities has been damaged in recent years. It has actually been improved. It is true that we then have a really big problem in terms of distributing the funds that are available so that we can ensure that all municipalities can maintain a proper primary school. This is a whole problem, and we must, of course, resolve it. We also assume that the present government is addressing this issue. But also in the light of that, I still do not understand: when the coupling rate may even cause further problems, why not maintain it? Well, what's Enhedslisten's argument for not voting for this proposal, other than that it's Liberal Alliance? Then we will be happy to put it forward tomorrow and then the Enhedslisten can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120531	We simply have no desire to allow either the Liberal Alliance or the Danish People's Party to lay the foundations for the discussions we will have in the political majority consisting of the government, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten. The latter three parties have insisted that there should be no deterioration in the economy of free schools. I have a strong expectation of that, i.e. that this unity will last throughout this reign. But we are not going to decide in advance what economic models should prevail when we are about to discuss the economy of free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120610	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121120625	Thank you for that and thank you to the Liberal Alliance for tabling the motion for a resolution. We warmly support this, although we do not commit ourselves to only having a switching rate of 76, as we have, as you know, proposed raising the coupling rate by one percentage point further targeted for special education, inclusion efforts and pattern breaker bets. That is why we are also pleased that LA has, in such a way, written that the coupling rate should be at least at the current level. When we support free schools, this is because there are many different reasons why you as parents choose a free school for your child. It may be that the local primary school is closed and that there is a free school which has been opened up instead and which is therefore in the vicinity, and there is too long for the nearest primary school. It may also be that you want to choose a special profile. It might be that you think that the pedagogy that is at a Rudolf Steiner school is something that suits your family. It may also be that you need a change of school because of bullying, and that is because you do not see that the social environment that has been at school has been good enough. I would like to say very clearly that, for us, it is a great deal about the fact that public schools and free schools are not one another's opposites, and one must be careful to draw it up so that they become one another's opposites. And that is why it is actually good that we have had such a good and also a long debate here today, when we are discussing the coupling rate. Because I think that there is something in the Minister's statements in the press that bears witness to a kind of prejudiced approach to free schools. The minister has said in several interviews that free schools are sucking money, they are sitting on large savings, they are turning their backs on the community. And the truth is that schools with large savings have, for example, saved up for expensive renovations or even for new buildings. This could, for example, be the example of Bording's Free School, which saves up for new windows, and that is not greed or money-pooring. And it's not fair to shoot those free schools in the shoes. In fact, I think that we should also be aware that it creates a very great deal of uncertainty out there when we adopt such a hard and so warlike style. And then I actually thought it was positive to see that there was a nuance difference; at least I did not hear that the Socialist rapporteur supported the idea that children should go to school for the sake of society, and I did not actually hear Mr. Jens Joel say that the free schools are turning their backs on the community. And I think that's thought-provoking. But even if the Minister is in the Parliament alone and perhaps even in his party about wanting to be like this after the free schools, also with the concrete proposal to reduce the coupling rate, then one should not be mistaken about the great uncertainty that is being created. Because there are many parents who are currently really worried that their children can continue in the school they have chosen. In a survey by Danish Radio, 36 schools replied that if the switching rate was reduced to 71, they had to close, and 65 schools replied that they would be in danger of closing. And that just testifies to the fact that you're very nervous out there. Finally, I would like to thank you, and I would also like to give you such a little butt. I would like to thank the Radicals, the Enhedslisten and the SF for their role in the financial law negotiations. I thought it was liberating that the three parties went out so clearly and said: we do not want to reduce the coupling rate to 71, so that it has now been removed from the table. And I would also like to draw the conclusion, if I have understood correctly, that they do not really believe that free schools are a threat to the community, but that the three parties actually believe that free schools contribute to the community. And that those parties have also understood that if you lower the coupling rate, you run the risk of raising parental payments, which would mean that free schools risk ending up being too small a privileged class. Nowadays, the free schools have students from a great many different walks of life, and it should be that way, so I think that nuance deserves praise. Thank you. But there will also be an ass, and there will be no one else from the Enhedslisten, the Social Democrats and the Radicals in the Chamber right now other than Mr Rogalla. Jakob Silverhøj, so it becomes Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, that the butt is coming. Because I understand that this has been fought against in the Finance Act. But what I do not understand, and where I think it is going to get woolly, is that you basically agree with the political that is being put forward and that you vote 'no' and that is where I am concerned because, as was said, it is the Liberal Alliance that is putting forward the proposal. Forgive me, but this is the first time I have seen parties being directly cast out to make proposals; they say that they will not vote in favour because they are the ones who have put it forward. I don't think it's usually the way we do it. I think that we in the Folketing tend to be concerned about the substance, we are concerned about the policy, we are concerned about the proposals that lie in it. And all of a sudden, this is all about a lot of tactical considerations, and I really don't think this proposal deserves it. Nor do I think that all those involved in free schools out there deserve it. So just to conclude, I would like to say that we support the resolution and that we reserve the right to raise the coupling rate at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121133	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121135	I'm thinking I'd better sign for those nice words. I would also like to say that what I have tried to make very clear from the platform is that we do not have certain models that are definitive, but we want to safeguard the economy of the free schools so that it does not deteriorate. But then I would also like to hear from Mrs Mai Mercado whether Mrs Mai Mercado believes that it helps to calm down the coupling rate when the rapporteur, Mr Le Pen, is speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group. Henrik Dahl, at the same time as the Liberal Alliance, makes a proposal to keep the coupling rate stable, states to the press that it is considered that the coupling rate should be set up to 80. Is this really a way to try to create calm and consensus? Or is it really merely an expression of the desire to impose an ideological debate rather than just the first part, namely to recognise that the Enhedslisten, together with the Radical Left and the SF, has safeguarded the economy of free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121237	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj can be quite calm, for it says nothing about 80%. in the motion for a resolution before us. It says that it wants to maintain the coupling rate at the current level. That's why it should be simple to go to. I think it will be too easy for you to have two parties that throw overboard their political values and that do not vote according to their beliefs, but suddenly for tactical reasons to please a government you have to assume or, in order to indulge a party that makes a proposal, choose to vote against something that you basically and in terms of opinion actually agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121318	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121320	The position of the Enhedslisten on the economy of free schools is not linked to certain percentages, but we want to make sure that the funds that come out to free schools do not deteriorate, and I can then hear that I am delighted that if anyone should try to create a majority in order to undermine the economy of free schools, then there is obviously a good alliance between the Conservative People's Party and the Enhedslisten, and we must then welcome that. I don't think that's gonna be necessary. I believe that the Enhedslisten, together with the Radical Left and the SF, has landed this discussion with the Social Democrats, and we are looking forward to a very good discussion on how we distribute the economy between schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121401	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121402	So SF, Enhedslisten and the Social Democrat have made such a deal or have landed this discussion, one has to understand. It's amazing anyway. I would have thought that Enhedslisten was in his original DNA, that we would vote in favour of the proposals with which we agree, and against the proposals with which we disagree, and I can understand that that is no longer the case. So this is a new way of conducting politics. Then I would just like to say at the end of the day that there are no concrete models in this. After all, the motion for a resolution alone maintains the coupling rate of 76, i.e. 75%. plus 1 social percent. So the underlying models are still away for discussion, and it takes the whole weight out of the argument that both SF and Enhedslisten say that you want to make priorities. It's easy to do that, even if you vote for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121458	Thank you. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mira Issa Bloch, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121504	Thank you for the floor. In the alternative, we like the free choice of schools, and we like that there are several different options to choose from. For the alternative, the free schools are an important part of the Danish education world and the only option to choose a local school in some rural areas. Children are very different, and some fit well in one place and others somewhere else. We also have different things as parents, we think are important to our children, and children learn differently, and schools are different, in terms of how they teach. There is also the advantage of having free schools that if a child is miserable and does not fit into a municipal school, it is possible to change to a free school. My three children have themselves attended Rudolf Steiner School, and many new children have come in over the years, who have not felt so well where they were and which I have seen flourishing. I have also seen children for whom Rudolf Steiner School was not right and who moved to another school. Not least here, it is important that we maintain the coupling rate in relation to the small municipal schools which have now become free schools and which are closed if the coupling rate is reduced. Since 2007 we have just seen the closure of more than 200 local primary schools in rural areas. Fortunately, in several places you have joined forces and started a free school, which means that in these areas you have continued to have a good primary school, which we know is very important for people to want to live there. In the alternative, we think that all those who wish should be allowed to attend a free school, but at the same time we must also have a very good primary school. You should not choose the free school because the municipal school is bad, but unfortunately there is a tendency after the school reform that parents opt out of it, among other things. due to too long school days, too few teachers, too many tests and too poor inclusion. If the primary school were super good, maybe there wouldn't be this increase in the number of those who choose the free schools. In the alternative, one of our suggestions for how we could get a better primary school is that we set them much more free and that they are allowed to decide more for themselves. We support maintaining the coupling rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121738	There are no comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121121752	We must be bourgeois and we must be ambitious in our school policy. We must get away from the social democratic school policy, which has been conducted by virtually all parties for far too long. Now I have been listening to all the rapporteurs in the Chamber today, and not one single person has mentioned who is doing the good school. For it is evident that most of the parties believe that it is the politicians in here at Christiansborg who are doing the good school, and I simply have to correct the rapporteurs as a school teacher and point out that those who do the good school are the skilled professionals who are out there. It is the leaders, and it is the school teachers who, in cooperation with the parents, are doing the best school for exactly the area where the school is located. Because there must be room for diversity. It may be that you want a school with outdoor education, it may be that you are in favour of the traditional model, and there must be room for these differences, and the problem is that we have seen for too many years that politicians in here at Christiansborg have decided so much about the schools that you hardly have the opportunity to make a very good primary school, because everything is dictated from Christiansborg. That is why we are also tabling this amendment to the effect that free schools should, of course, receive the same subsidies as the primary schools. The money must follow the individual child, and parents must have the opportunity to choose exactly the school they want, without any politicians in here at Christiansborg interfering in it. All parents in Denmark pay taxes, and therefore it is also absurd that free schools do not receive the same subsidy from the state to run schools. That needs to be changed. For too long, Danish families have been subject to the politicians' desire to interfere in school, which is why it is time to put schools and free schools on an equal footing and let families have a really free choice. Politicians must decide much less, and the Danes must decide much more for themselves. It is time for a fight with decades of social democratic cash-flowing thinking in the field of education, and this is something for which the New Citizen would like to take the lead. This will benefit all pupils, parents and schools, and that is why we in the New Citizens' Party are tabling this amendment to increase the coupling rate to 100. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121122105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121122113	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for a long but really, really exciting debate about something that is dear to all of us, namely our school system. Right after the 2015 elections, I had Enhedslisten's political rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, at the table at an official dinner in this house. She told me on that occasion that if it was hard to be a pressured support party, I could always approach and then the political rapporteur would offer a beer and a comforting word in his office. We became a pressured support party during the parliamentary term that followed, but we also got a lot to do, so I never got to the rapporteur's office and we never had a beer and I never got a comforting word. So if sir... Jakob Silverhøj finds it hard to be a pressured support party and needs a comforting word, he knows now that he can turn to get a beer and such a comforting word. But this has been a very good debate in many ways, because what we have been given particular attention here is the particular view in the Social Democratic Party that the relationship between the free schools and the public schools is some kind of zero-sum game. If the free schools are going to be okay, then the public schools are in a bad state; and if the public schools are in a bad state, then the free schools are doing well. It is by no means so; it is simply two different things; it is different forms of school. As the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, has pointed out, the freedom to choose free schools is a right of freedom which, of course, makes no sense to undermine, because then citizens have nothing to do with their right. That is what this is all about: the basic school system that we have here in Denmark, because almost from the moment we came into being as a democratic nation 170 years ago, there have been two pillars of our system. One was that we should have a population of enlightened people and, because it is important that the population be made up of enlightened people, all parents are required to teach their children. But it is not the case that we should be robots in competitive society, or what was said in the 1800s. Of course, if you are an economist or the like, it is also important for society and the state that human capital is well qualified and develops, etc. But the state does not have a monopoly on the information that is so important to everyone, and that is why we were given the first law on free schools in 1855. It's actually important that there isn't this state monopoly. In the field of universities, we now see how information is trampled underfoot because of alignment in favour of the global goals. It is a state alignment which is difficult to accept and which would not exist if we had free universities we do not, and therefore people who go to university must put up with this alignment. However, such a alignment was not thought back in the 1800s that citizens should accept in the field of school, and that is why we have the arrangement we have. The good news in this whole debate is that the proposal to reduce the economy of free schools has been taken off the table. We're really happy about that. You almost remember Niels Helveg Petersen's words that you can get people to do almost anything in politics if you can make them think it's their idea, because it's obviously everyone's idea not to degrade the economy of free schools. It's also our idea, so of course we're happy about it. But the economy of the free schools is not going to be calm, and we are of course very sorry about that. The principled opposition, which made it hard to be a support party and a government party during the last parliamentary term, has had wool in its mouth: there must be no deterioration, but neither will there be any guarantee that there will be no deterioration. It is enough to sit with the power that comes with a certain amount of wool, so I just want to take note of that and not harcele very much over it; it can happen to anyone. However, there is an important discussion that we must also have. Of course, we in the Liberal Alliance would very much like to help solve the difficulties facing the primary school. They exist, and so there is a false contradiction between the free school form and the public school system, that is, it should not be possible to relate to both at the same time. What we are sceptical about is something quite different, but we have also seen that in today's debate. That is very positive. And that is, for the government and the support parties, with the Social Democratic Party at the head of the government, it's not about the children, but it's about social engineering. It is always the social engineering art that is being played, and what is a thorn in the eye of government and government parties is that you cannot get far enough into free schools and do social engineering. They must do more for the sake of social engineering in order to make some key figures in some statistics fit better together, and therefore irrelevant examples and very, very rare and special private schools must be included to illustrate some points that do not stick. Children don't go to school for the sake of the state. They go to school for their own sakes, to be enlightened people, to evolve, and I think we should hold on to that. Fortunately, several rapporteurs have said so. So, of course, we welcome the fact that the bottom line in raising this whole debate is that the deterioration in the economy of the free schools has been taken off the table. It's really, really good, and of course we're happy about that. I would like to conclude by saying something that is rather paradoxical in relation to the discussion we have had. But let me make it clear that there is no ideological crusade here against primary school. We want to help, but we will not help in relation to primary school to be social engineers, but because it is good for all children to go to a good school. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121122834	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121122838	I just want to say that Mr. Perhaps Henrik Dahl should have accepted the offer to come up to Mrs Pernille Skipper and have a talk about how to not become a pressured opposition. Perhaps you could have had a talk about how to push governments in a skilful way without committing to specific templates and models, because perhaps that is what has come out of the way we have discussed the free schools, namely that we, together with two other parties, have put pressure on the government and said that it will be difficult for you, probably impossible for you, to make a Finance Act if you want to insist on getting your model through for the economy of free schools. So, sir. Henrik Dahl can be calm. We're gonna stand firm to protect the free schools. And I think maybe I won't press the button again. It can be abused, so maybe I'll do it anyway. However, we can only conclude the debate by welcoming the fact that what has come out of the debate up to today is that we have prevented an attempt to undermine the economy of free schools. We are pleased about that, and I can hear that the rapporteur is also.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121122949	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121122950	Well, I would just like to say that the final assessment of whether or not you feel that you are a pressured support party should be made after the next elections and not at this early stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123006	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123022	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123047	Thank you for the floor. The draft law before us today is the first stage in the implementation of an agreement on the water sector, which was concluded by a large majority of Parliament's parties in November last year. It is an agreement whose overall aim is to ensure the future of the water sector for the benefit of consumers, businesses and society. The second stage will then be to come forward with legislative proposals that are expected to be made in 2021 so that the new rules can enter into force in 2022. Social democracy back then, as it is now, supported the agreement. The bill contains a number of elements. Firstly, the proposal allows the Minister and the Supply Secretariat to prepare and implement the political agreement of November last year. Secondly, the proposal allows less consumer-owned water companies, in line with the content of the political agreement, to opt out of economic regulation and tax liability if a majority of consumers so wish. If a water company in this category chooses to withdraw from the economic regulation, it will also withdraw from the corporate tax obligation and will also be able to withdraw for a number of years without any cessation tax. Thirdly, the proposal adjusts the rules as to when a water company will be subject to the Water Sector Act and therefore to economic regulation. In the future, it will be the case that, as a water company, you will not automatically be included simply because you have a variation in your water consumption for a single year, for example, as a result of a longer period of drought. In the social democracy, as I said, we support the political agreement on the water sector that was concluded last year, which is why, of course, we can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123227	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123237	The Left's supply rapporteur, Carsten Kissmeyer, is unfortunately prevented from making his speech today. I would therefore like to make a few brief comments on behalf of Carsten on the proposed legislation. Last year, the then government, together with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, entered into an agreement on economic regulation of the water sector. The purpose of the agreement was to adjust the economic regulation of the water sector. With the adoption of this bill, we will have reached a step closer to implementing parts of last year's voting agreement, thereby further contributing to the efficiency of the green line sector. It is water on the climate rapporteur's mill and will benefit the whole of society. The water sector covers approx. 2,500 water supply companies in Denmark, some 27 of which are municipal owned, and the rest are consumer owned. The variation in the size of the companies is great, which is why it is important for us to benefit them all with the bill. Regardless of the size or ownership of the company, it is the same for all of them that they are characterised by supply stability and high quality. Companies must have the right framework to operate their investments and operating costs as efficiently as possible without compromising security of supply. It is a healthy economy which is at the root of companies' investments. Strong incentives are therefore important to encourage investment in the further development of the water sector; that is common sense. But it is not only the economy that must be sustainable. It is with the climate and the environment in mind that we need to make the water sector more efficient. We need to further develop the water sector and make sure that it becomes the leading technology for securing utilities and setting ambitious targets for our climate and environment, while supporting high quality delivery and consumer-friendly prices. We cannot leave the responsibility for a climate-responsible transition to the water sector alone and then let the sector go for lye and cold water. Investing in high-quality solutions and the environment pays off, and that is why, through the adjusted economic regulation, we must first and foremost ensure that the sector has the economic flexibility to do so. Similarly, the proposal ensures that the financial framework takes more account of the fact that there will be a greater or lesser need for investment across the sector over time. The proposal will benefit the environment and climate, slim management and strengthen the focus on security of supply and consumer satisfaction. It benefits the whole of society, both the business community and the individual citizen. The proposal does not separate the waters from the left. The Left can support the proposal as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123517	Thank you. No one has any comments. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123527	Thank you, President. I have received permission from the President to express my warm thanks to all the greetings, thoughts and flowers that have recently come to my family before I make my comments on the legislative proposal itself. It has meant infinitely much to the whole family and shows that, in addition to the political differences, there is also a basic companionship and humanity here at Christiansborg, even when the inhuman shows his face. It has warmed and touched us, and that is why, on behalf of my family, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who have shown us kindness. Having said that, I am, of course, opposed to the draft law put forward by the Minister. It is a partial implementation of the agreement on the water sector concluded by a very broad majority of Parliament's parties at the end of 2018, i.e. about a year ago. The Danish People's Party agrees with the increase in the efficiency of the water sector. This benefits consumers, businesses and society as a whole, and it is expected that the efficiency potential can be up to 2.5 billion. kr. In the years ahead. It is good and it is necessary that such a central part of our infrastructure is constantly updated and safeguarded both economically and technologically. That is why we are also looking forward to the following parts of the agreement being put forward. The part we are dealing with today must fertilise the ground by ensuring that the necessary data can be collected by creating transitional arrangements for the economy and by ensuring a number of administrative reliefs for the smaller water plants in particular. This is a good thing, and of course we support it in the Danish People's Party. Of course, we also have an eye on the critical remarks, although not many, and these are perhaps rather concerns raised in the hearings. It is not least Danske Waterworks who are concerned about the economic transition arrangements. Of course, we expect the Minister to keep a close eye on this, so that the potential imbalances that may arise are anticipated and dealt with in good time. All in all, however, it is a sensible bill which can therefore gain the support of the Danish People's Party. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123826	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken. No, there's no one from the Radical Left. Mrs. Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121123846	The bill that we have before us today is part of the implementation of the political agreement, of which the SF is also a part. It aims at an adjusted economic regulation of the water sector. What we are starting now is that an analysis is being launched which must precede the implementation of the actual measures in the water sector agreement, i.e. to implement a flexible revenue framework and cover funding costs. In the consultations there is a request from the Danish water companies, from Dansk Industri and from HOFOR whether it was possible to speed up the process of implementing the rest of the agreement on the water sector. It would, of course, be positive if it could be done, and we therefore hope that the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply will also have a look at it. In the consultation responses to the draft law, DANVA also raises a question as to whether there are errors in the assumptions for the calculations of the general efficiency requirement. Reply from the Ministry to the consultations that an analysis has been initiated within the Supply Secretariat to clarify the questions concerning the calculation of the general efficiency requirement. We would just urge the Minister to look at the time limit for that analysis and also to seek a more detailed explanation of the relationship between how the general efficiency requirement has been calculated, in relation to the criticisms raised by DANVA. In addition, the draft law provides for the possibility for smaller, consumer-owned water companies to withdraw from economic regulation and tax liability, and we are very pleased that a transitional provision is also introduced to ensure that the smaller water companies will not be affected by end-of-life taxation. With the fallen remarks, the SF basically backs the bill as a result of the fact that we are also part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124121	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124138	Thank you. It is a law that should, like, allow you to prepare another law. In this way, that part of the substance is a little dull. The Enhedslisten stands fully by the agreement we are in and can support this bill. When we experience these changes for our utilities, where you have a desire for savings, a desire for rationalization, I think it is a little dangerous if we end up in something that leaves some parts of our supply sector in something that is extremely marked by the need to keep an eye on some spreadsheets and the framework around it. There I think it is important, also in the further work, to bear in mind what kind of water sector we want in the future; what kind of tasks it has to solve. There we are faced with an increase in the pollution of our drinking water. We are struggling to continue not to clean our drinking water, but to confuse it with something that is more clean than what is most polluted. We have a huge potential for exporting water technology. One might ask what the regulatory framework makes possible for the water sector and what it is they are then suddenly not allowed to do. That is where I think it is important that we do not end up in anything where it is the spreadsheets that govern a sector in some kind of hunt that you have calculated that you can save something. I firmly believe that there should be less McKinsey and more green transition in focus in what we have. And we need a really progressive water sector. After all, it is both our drinking water supply which is important and which is under threat, but it is also our waste water management. And we see some companies being really good at getting more energy out of waste water than the energy they use to handle it. We see that we are challenged with increased rainfall, and we see that, after changing the payment conditions to deal with climate solutions where rainwater is handled in the best way, we have ended up in something because the municipalities have to co-finance by 25%. In other words, either you do nothing, or you choose expensive solutions where you put rainwater into expensive sewer solutions. So there is a need to change some framework conditions. And that really must be possible, and there should not only be, what should be said, surpluses in individual water companies to adapt to new economic rules. We need to have a supply sector that develops and solves the challenges we face. There I think it is deeply serious that we have an increased pollution problem of our drinking water when, with the latest studies, we have started measuring for more substances and then we find those substances. We are therefore in favour of increasing the amount of drinking water that is more easily contaminated from 40%. 60 percent, just because you're measuring for more drugs. That is deeply disturbing. And what are the toxic substances in small concentrations doing to humans? What kind of diseases do we have? To what extent have some of these diseases been caused by the contamination of drinking water? I think that is deeply worrying. That is why we need a drinking water sector which is really on the verge of solving these problems and which can ensure the future of drinking water, and which can help, for example, to help. to provide better protection for our drinking water in the areas from which we draw water and where groundwater is produced. So there is every reason to talk up a water sector in Denmark. They are good both in terms of drinking water supply and waste water management, and they must continue to be, even if we are making changed economic conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124534	Thank you. No one has any comments, and then we can go ahead in the series of speeches. It's sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124540	Thank you for that, President. Today, Denmark has an international top-class water sector characterised by stable, high-quality delivery. The 2018 agreement and regulation shall contribute to the efficiency of the sector for the benefit of consumers, businesses and society, and shall further develop the high level of environmental, climate, service and security of supply as well as support technology development when it benefits consumers. It is agreed that a significant efficiency of the sector will be achieved and the overall efficiency potential will be estimated at 2.5 billion. kr. in 2025 compared to 2014. This was the starting point in 2018, and what we are doing now is to bring legal bases into preparation for the implementation of an adjusted economic regulation of the water sector and of the possibility for smaller consumer-owned water companies to withdraw from economic regulation and corporate tax liability. The overall adjustment and regulation must provide flexibility to invest in long-term sustainable solutions that support high quality delivery and environment, low prices for consumers and greater focus on security of supply and on consumer satisfaction, as the Supply Secretariat will be able to make demands in the longer term, so that efficiency is not at the expense of security of supply and quality of supply. The aim of the draft law is in the short term to ensure the necessary legal basis for the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply and the Supply Secretariat to prepare for the implementation of the policy decisions and to change the economic regulation which will be implemented in a later legislative proposal. The draft law also implements the first part of paragraph 4 of the Economic Agreement of 22 November 2018 concerning a flexible regulatory model for smaller consumer-owned water companies. The aim of the draft law is therefore to allow the smaller, consumer-owned water companies to obtain administrative relief by stepping out of economic regulation and corporate tax obligations. The Conservative People's Party supports L 50.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124802	Thank you for that, and we'll move on to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124806	Thank you. Now many rapporteurs have examined what this proposal is about. We are then one of the parties that is not part of the agreement, and that is why, when I had to find out how we should deal with this, I had to go into the former rapporteur's file of notes. It was so handwritten over this deal that the lemon was squeezed a little more than it was in terms of efficiency. It was then with the eyes that I had to go in and read on this, and I think there are some things in the consultation answers that are worth biting about, especially the answer from DANVA in relation to the implementation, that is, the horizon of how fast this should go. And then there was what Mrs Signe Munk said about these efficiency requirements, i.e. whether they are too violent to have in general. We look forward to that, like getting an answer before we can take a final position. I would say that we are a little more positive than we were when the agreement was made, but we look forward to just hearing the answer to the question that Mrs Signe Munk also raised here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124914	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121124920	Thank you for the floor. The bill is the first part of the implementation of a political agreement on adjusted economic regulation of the water sector, which was concluded in autumn 2018 by a broad committee of Parliament's parties. The aim of the draft law is, in the short term, to ensure a number of necessary provisions to prepare for the implementation of the politically decided changes in economic regulation, which will be translated into a later legislative proposal. We recognise the need for this. In New Citizens we look with goodwill at the overall adjusted regulation. The proposal has given rise to several comments from interested parties. However, the consultations give an overall picture of satisfaction with the intention to simplify and streamline the rules in this area, and some adjustments have been made to address concerns. New citizens therefore welcome the bill and can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125016	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125022	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill, which envisages a more efficient operation of the Danish water supply for the benefit of consumers, who will eventually be able to pay less for it. That is how it must be when you have a water supply sector that is not subject to real competition. Then we must adopt by law that it should do better. Ideally, instead, we should have more competition in this area, and that can be done. Just as you can buy your power from various electricity producers who then use a common grid in order to send the power to the consumer who bought it, you can also have a common water supply network where different water providers supply water into the system, which corresponds to the amount of water they have sold to consumers. This is, of course, the way to go more in Denmark, and the Liberal Alliance would prefer that, but when there is no majority in favour of it, we must do so in such a way that we in the Folketing decide that the water should be delivered cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125139	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125149	Thank you for letting me get on at the end because I wasn't here when it was our turn. I'm sorry. I am here on behalf of our climate rapporteur, Ida Auken. Several people before me have mentioned what the bill is about, namely the implementation of the very broad political agreement on the economic regulation of the water sector concluded in autumn 2018 between, as far as I can see, all parties except the Alternative at that time. We are therefore part of the agreement and we welcome the fact that it is now finally being implemented. In particular, we are pleased that the smaller companies can get rid of red tape. We must appreciate the voluntary forces that provide cheap and safe water for consumers. At the same time, the overall package provides a more flexible framework, which is good. We would have liked to see the overall agreement implemented more quickly than is the case. We will press for the rest to be implemented as soon as possible, but of course we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125249	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125254	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and comments on the draft law. The draft law is the first part of the implementation of the broad political agreement on the adjusted economic regulation of the water sector from 2018. In two years' time, the second part, which is the majority, will follow. The 2018 agreement aims to introduce a more flexible financial framework that takes into account changing investment needs across companies in the sector and across time. At the same time, it supports a high quality both in terms of delivery and environment as well as low prices to consumers. The focus on security of supply and consumer satisfaction is strengthened so that efficiency is not at the expense of security of supply and quality of supply. First of all, the main objective of the draft law is to ensure in the short term a number of necessary regulatory provisions to prepare for the changes to the economic regulation to be made in 2021. Secondly, the draft law implements that part of the political agreement which allows less consumer-owned water companies to withdraw from economic regulation and corporate tax obligations in order to achieve administrative relief. The derogation is now being introduced in order to clarify which companies are leaving and which companies the new regulation should be adapted to. In addition, the draft law provides for a transitional rule so that the withdrawal of economic regulation for a limited period of time can take place without termination taxation. Thirdly, the draft law provides for an adjustment of the rules on when a water company will be subject to the Water Sector Act, so that the rules take more account of unusual fluctuations in the annual amount of water charged, for example. because of drought. We saw last year how water consumption increased during the dry summer, and this meant that some companies that are today so small that they are not included in the economic regulation suddenly risked being included in the regulation due to unusual high water consumption for a single year, and that was, therefore, even if their water quantity would go back to normal the next year, and that is obviously not appropriate. This is now being resolved by the fact that companies are only covered by the regulation if they are above the threshold for several years in a row. Once again, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law, and I look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal, in which, of course, we will also take up in more detail some of the various issues raised by the rapporteurs here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125523	Thank you. No one has any comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125538	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125558	The aim of the draft law is to ensure that Denmark can meet the obligations that we have under the EU's VE directive. The directive requires 10% to be included. renewable energy in the transport sector in all EU countries by 2020, and this is the target achievement that the bill will ensure by increasing the incorporation requirement for sustainable biofuels from 5.75%. 7.6%. in 2020. For the Social Democrats, it is important that we meet our obligations in relation to the VE directive, and that is why we support the solution proposed by the draft law. At the same time, however, we are concerned about a better and longer-term solution to the use of biofuels and RES in the transport sector. Therefore, it makes sense that the increased mixing requirement only applies for a 1-year period, while work is being done on new measures that have a greater real climate effect in the transport sector. The requirement of 10%. VE in the transport sector by 2020 has been known substance for many years, which is why we also find it a pity that the previous government did not exercise due diligence so that the targets of the VE directive could be achieved in a more appropriate way. However, as I have said, we support the bill as we believe it is important that we live up to the agreements we have made in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125716	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125721	Thank you. I share the criticism of the previous government that the rapporteur mentioned here. It is, after all, an old directive that Denmark is trying to live up to, and it is inscribed in the 2012 energy agreement that you should go for this 10%. renewable energy, and I note that, one year ago, there were actually some debates about this where broad negotiations had been convened. The Enhedslisten also took part in the negotiations, and I may at some point have some doubts about whether we were thrown out or whether we left ourselves, but then it was very difficult to get the government to prioritize electrification of the entire transport sector. Several electric cars, electric buses, charging stations for electric buses, etc. were discussed, and it ended up with no agreement at all, and there was subsequently a financial law where nothing was clarified either, and it was back last year that we could have adopted some electrification of our transport sector, which could have moved in the right direction. Does the rapporteur agree that it is an electrification of our transport sector which should be the essential element in this change in transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125828	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125829	I'll give Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen right in the criticism that is being raised. It is a pity, especially when you have known for so many years that this goal achievement was approaching, and I also agree with the considerations that exist in relation to the fact that we must have looked at how long-term efforts are being made to speed up the electrification of the transport sector. It is also part of the understanding paper made in June that electrification of the transport sector is very, very important. So I fully agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125904	Thank you. Here's another comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125907	Now we are faced with something where it is, in fact, food that is put in the tanks of some cars, and the rapporteur also used this term'sustainable biofuels'. I would appeal to you to try to use some other names when it comes to the fact that it is food such as rapeseed oil, soya oil and palm oil that you could use in food, when you like to talk about it as being sustainable, if you put it in the tank of a diesel car. Does the rapporteur not see that we are going to use a slightly different term?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121125939-2	Yes, the name I am using here is, it might be said, the European term in relation to the European Union, but I can, in fact, respond to the point that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. For it is true that there is a very big difference between the sustainability profile of these various biofuels, and I believe that it will be beneficial if it is illuminated and if we ensure that we know what we are talking about when we talk about sustainable biofuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130014	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130018	Thank you. Now I heard Mrs. Anne Paulin look backwards in relation to what the previous government should not have done. But it is all else just a little more interesting to look forward, all the time it is the opportunity we have to influence, and there are some things that are going to happen per. 1 January in relation to the electrification of the transport sector. There are some reductions in electricity taxes for electric cars, there are some reductions in registration fees for electric cars, etc., where we have not yet heard what the government wants in these areas. It would be nice if Mrs Anne Paulin, with her probably more intimate relationship with the government than she was here today, could reveal whether the government is coming forward with any initiatives that will allow us to continue with the development of the electric car sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130111	It is difficult not to have to look back a little when you are standing here and have to make a solution that is not as good as it could have been if more due care had been taken. In relation to the issue of financial law negotiations, etc. I have no comment to make on the specific negotiations in the transport sector. However, I can of course assure the rapporteur that the government and the Social Democrats are deeply concerned about how to ensure a long-term green transition of our transport sector, and there is no doubt that the stop-and-go approach, which has been very much in favour of the transformation of the transport sector in recent years, makes it difficult for us to have a good framework for really speeding up the green transition of the transport sector. So I can confirm that we are deeply concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130206	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130207	I understand, of course, that the rapporteur does not have his day-to-day business in the Ministry of Finance, but maybe she has it in the Ministry of Transport. For it is true that the previous majority in the Folketing actually made a rather comprehensive and ambitious transport agreement which, on the one hand, had to reduce the queues on motorways and, on the other, expanded the rail network. I am aware that this agreement has been removed from the table by the new government, a government supported by Mrs Paulin, and it would be nice if, now that we cannot find out what is going on in the Ministry of Finance, we could get the veil on what is going on in the Ministry of Transport in relation to a new agreement that could promote mobility and thus reduce CO2 there would be a plan from the Social Democratic Party, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130255	Yes, there will, of course, be a look at how we can secure our infrastructure for the future, so that both the collective infrastructure and our roadway are also ready for a green transition and continued expansion. It is not my area of responsibility or I do not even know whether you can say that when you are the rapporteur but I am convinced that this will be a major discussion in the coming year, so don't worry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130328	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. We go further in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur comes from the Danish Liberal Party, the Left, and I welcome Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130348	My colleague, Mrs Bjerre, who is the rapporteur on the draft law by the Left, whom we are discussing today, is unfortunately prevented from being here. I would therefore like to make a few comments on behalf of the rapporteur. Today we are embarking on the first reading of the Bill amending the Biofuels Act; that is the so-called incorporation requirement. With the bill, Denmark will comply with the 2009 EU Renewable Energy Directive, which obliges Member States to apply a minimum of 10%. renewable energy in the land transport sector by 2020, i.e. only for the year 2020. Denmark's compliance is quite specific, by raising the incorporation requirement for sustainable biofuels in petrol and diesel, which are today at a level equivalent to 5.75%, to a level of 7.6%. for the year 2020. The remaining part of 2.4%. will be met by electricity. In this way, we will achieve the EU's demand for a minimum of 10%. renewable energy by 2020. Furthermore, the legislative proposal lowers the incorporation requirement for advanced biofuels from 0.9%. to 0.15 per cent. for the year 2020. The demand is being reduced, as we in Denmark have a very limited production of advanced biofuels, at least at this stage. It has been crucial for the Left that the demand for advanced biofuels should be reduced as little as possible, so that there remains a Danish market for those companies that are prepared to produce advanced biofuels. The reduction in the demand for advanced biofuels provides an additional revenue, which is expected to offset most of the costs, by the fact that the general incorporation requirement is now being increased. When we talk about biofuels, it has also been important for the Left that we avoid the re-introduction of palm oil on the Danish market. Unfortunately, we see that palm oil continues to be widely used in the production of biodiesel, and that is really bad. Firstly, the production of palm oil has natural and environmental consequences in the areas where the palm trees are grown. Secondly, biofuels with palm oil are the type of biofuels with the greatest climate impact. That is why the Left considers it reasonable that, together with the increase in the incorporation requirement for sustainable biofuels, a minimum mixture requirement for sustainable biofuels in petrol should also be introduced of at least 5%. In this way, we ensure that the incorporation requirement will be met primarily by increased incorporation into petrol, thus avoiding the use of palm oil. The background to the legislative proposal is, as I started by mentioning, the EU's renewable energy directive. Climate challenges are cross-border and solutions need to be found across borders. That is why the Left believes that it is quite right that it is within the framework of the European Union that we take the measures that need to be taken, while at the same time committing ourselves to each other. That is why we also believe that Denmark must, of course, comply with its obligations in the EU directive, as we will be doing with this bill. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Left would have liked to see a longer-term solution for renewable energy in the transport sector, alongside this bill. We think it is inappropriate to increase the requirement for the incorporation of biofuels for one year and then to decrease again. The industry needs stable and long-term rules. That is why I should like to reiterate the call made by the Left to the Minister for Energy to call the Energy Committee as soon as possible to discuss the long-term solutions for renewable energy in the transport sector. In the light of this bill, we consider it urgent that we find long-term green solutions for the transport industry. However, this does not change the fact that we have to solve the challenges by 2020. That is why the Left can support the bill and we look forward to the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130725	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130730	I understand from the rapporteur that the Left attaches great importance to the Member States of the European Union fulfilling their commitment to the VE and that the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, calls for long-term solutions to be set in motion for negotiation. Honestly: Well, the Left has just had the PM post for four years. We have experienced that in the summer of last year Lars Løkke Rasmussen came and wanted to be very green. When the Social Democracy then had a goal of half a million electric cars, he came and said that the Left was in favour of a million electric cars exciting. Then there was a little expectation that something would happen, and then some discussions on green cars were convened, and discussions were held for a long time, and there were more than sixty annexes to that matter. And what did it end up with? So, it didn't even end up with an agreement with the Danish People's Party. You didn't do anything. And that means that the problem facing the current Minister for Climate and Energy is the fault of the Left, that is to say that the Minister is facing that problem and can only find a solution that is more biodiesel in the tank. Can the rapporteur of the Left not see that this task has been completed over the last four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130840	Let me start somewhere else. In the Left, we are very interested in finding long-term green solutions. And we want to continue to do so, and we will continue to do so. We have also tried to find solutions in the previous government. Unfortunately, it was not entirely benevolent that we met from the opposition. So that is why we are standing here today, which we are very sorry about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130906	In the Enhedslisten we are also in favour of long-term green solutions. This is among other things. Therefore, we are part of the energy settlement from 2012. And when the rapporteur points out that the opposition was not so well-willed, an agreement could then have been reached with the Danish People's Party last year, which could have accepted the Danish People's Party in some areas which concerned a more sustainable mode of transport. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a defeat that nothing was achieved last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130934	I am very pleased that the rapporteur and I agree that we need long green solutions here in Denmark. And I am actually fully confident that it will be discussed and examined in the future committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121130952	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short comments, and the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series comes from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121131004	Thank you, President. I have to say that it is with a mixture of astonishment and disgust that I hear the rapporteur of the Left speaking about the opposition during the past parliamentary term. So, in recent Danish history I cannot come up with anything more favourable to parliamentary support than the Danish People's Party, which has carried the government then through self-created plagues for 4 long years. So having to listen to that kind of thing puzzles me very much. But it may always be easier to shoot with a shotgun when you are no longer responsible. I shall not go into that more carefully here. This is a baroque situation we find ourselves in, it goes without saying. But that does not change the fact that there is something fundamentally sensible about making the transport sector in Denmark fossil-free. There is an obvious environmental gain from what is a great health benefit from it. Every year there are people in this country who get sick and die of pollution coming from the transport sector, and that applies both to cars, but it also applies to diesel-powered trains. This is the case with the dirty cruise ships that dock in our ports, these are aircraft and so on. We have a clear commitment I would call it a bottom-up task to ensure that something serious is done about the presumably only part of the Danish energy consumption that increases its CO2 and the question is, of course, what is the wise. Now, by 2020, the European Union says, we must meet a very high reduction target. There is no further demand for 2021 and forward-looking and such things, and then we can say that we will know the European Union again. But that doesn't change the fact that the target is right. Whether it is higher compulsory incorporation, whether it is an electrification, whether it is hydrogen or whatever it may be, must be open. But it is precisely for this reason that it is also crucial that we are open and that we do not opt in advance and say that it is one particular direction that should ensure decoupling from fossil fuels in the future. And that is why, as I said to the Social Democrat rapporteur, we are sorry that we cannot get a little bit of knowledge of what, for example, is going to happen from the closed treasury. happens in the electric car area. I understand resorting, etc., but it would be nice to have such a broad energy mix, and when there is a relatively broad support for the government's desire to get this law through we could then just get a little bit of information the other way. I understand that even the parties present in the Ministry of Finance do not know anything about what is going on. And that's a shame. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party will be waiting for the next two times to see if, in the course of the weeks that are going to go by, we can learn a little more about the broad approach of the government to how to solve the problems we have in the transport sector. Not because we do not agree that they need to be resolved. As I said, there are environmental and health issues and, in this respect, there are also security policy concerns. So, in Denmark, we are able to take the lead in relation to electrification or any other form of conversion of the transport sector, so that we no longer have to have oil in the tank, whether it be petrol or diesel, then we are also pulling the bottom plug under the Middle Eastern terrorist regimes. They are clearly based on income from oil sources. That would be a great improvement for peace and security and happiness in the world. So this whole movement towards becoming less dependent on coal, gas and oil is good for the West, for Denmark, and therefore we are also positive for all the actions that can be. But we would like to know a little more before we enter the pedestal completely with the Minister. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121131425	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs comes from the Radical Left. This is Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121131438	Thank you. And I am here again on behalf of our climate rapporteur, Ida Auken, and she has written a speech for me. She has written: One of our biggest problems with the climate is the transport sector. We know that we need to get vehicles to power, hydrogen or gas, and we hope to be able to promote advanced biofuels and electro-fuels that can displace petrol and diesel. Such a change is not only good for the climate, it will also provide significantly cleaner air in our cities. Unfortunately, the piece of legislation we have today does not provide us with the framework needed to set a new direction in the transport sector, perhaps even more so on the contrary. Because for too many years a zigzag course has been conducted in the electric car sector, we have not been able to meet our EU target for 2020 in terms of electricity. That is why we are now making new demands on the incorporation of biofuels in order not to break the law. The negotiations in themselves have been an unsightly process, bearing in mind that a solution must be reached by 1 January 2020. We would therefore like to urge that we do not get this sort of thing back. It is better for the Folketing to be involved earlier and for us to be able to have a negotiating process with which both we as politicians and the people can be satisfied, and, of course, a framework for what companies should expect. The only good thing about this is that it only applies in 2020. In general, we need a new way of regulating our transport sector, which is focused on CO2, for which we in the Radical Left will work, both in the work on a Climate Act and the Climate Action Plan and in the ongoing budget negotiations, where we have proposed a pool to get the public sector to drive green, as well as proposals for a safety plan for electric cars that will ensure the lower taxes until a new tax system is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121131615	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Welcome to Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121131628	Thank you. There is no doubt that the bill here is a fever rescue, so that we do not break EU rules on the level of renewable energy in transport. It is a patch solution five minutes in closing time which, as several rapporteurs up here have clarified, could have been avoided if we had had a more rigorous and future-proof solution for electricity in our transport. But now we are standing here, and I hope that this process and the debate we have today are something we can all learn from: if we do not make long-term decisions about the green transition, we will unfortunately end up in situations where we may have to make some hasty and tired decisions as we are doing now. The legislative proposal that we have here is not in our view what is going to promote the green transition of transport. We recognise, however, that we and we have together tried to knit together a solution which seeks to minimise the risk of increased demand for the particularly climate-damaging palm oil to be incorporated into diesel with this bill and by setting a minimum requirement for the incorporation of biofuels into petrol. However, this is not a long-term solution, which is why it has been important for the SF in the negotiations to get written into the agreement that what we have to do from next year is to sit together and look at an agreement that will focus on a long-term solution, where we need renewable fuels in transport and where there is a focus on CO2 I also hear that there is enough support for us to have a long-term solution. Therefore, it is also good that this draft law only applies in the year when the directive also forces us to allow it to apply, and then we will have a long-term solution focusing on CO2 With these comments, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121131851	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121131851-2	Well, I share the rapporteur's view that this is a bad solution. If we are to try to look ahead it is in the near future that there is an energy agreement where 100 million have been set aside. kr. to green transport in each of the years to come. With regard to the financing proposal for the agreement that is behind this bill, the Minister for Climate and Energy is not just a minister, he is also the chief savings bank manager and out to borrow 27 million. kr. of the pool. That is to say, there are 27 million. kr. less next year for really green initiatives. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it was not an idea for us to stand together at the next energy conciliation meeting. The next meeting has been cancelled, but then we have a meeting in December. So let's get a start on how this money is spent before the minister lends more of that money so that this conversion cannot be carried out. So I think we should cut out the bank manager's wings and see to it that some green actions are realized. Will the rapporteur help us to push for the green pool for public transport to be promoted and used for the right purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132002	That's right, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen says. Part of the compromise in this agreement is that some money is borrowed in the green transport pool during the energy settlement to cover the cost of this deal. This has not been the desirable starting point for the SF, but it has been such a compromise. Then there will still be some money left in the green transport pool, and I hope that together in the energy conciliation circle we will be able to distribute them in the most sensible way so that they can facilitate the green transition of transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132032	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132033	I think we should hurry to do that before someone comes and borrows more money, because the conversion of the transport sector is the hardest thing. Well, this 70-percent-CO-2 and that's because of the failed policy of the previous government in this area. Does the rapporteur not see that we need to start this electrification as soon as possible and that it needs to be turbod?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132104	I fully agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that we need to start the conversion of transport as soon as possible. It is not just about the money that lies in the energy agreement; it is also about the fundamental electrification of our railways through our infrastructure investments; it is about how we get the electric car sales supported, and it is also, of course, about the fact that we encourage municipalities, for example. to buy green buses in the next calls for tender, they must do so to support it financially. So I think we need to get started in several places, but I fully share the rapporteur's lack of patience in getting started on a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132146	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. It's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132153	Thank you. Well, I'm the task of converting the transport sector gets bigger when you pass this bill. It's a bill, like if you look at it globally, CO 2 kr. On. I think it is a bit grotesque when you hear about these financial negotiations and the small amounts that are in it, how difficult it is to draw money out of the various reserves and cigar boxes. Despite the fact that we have an extremely good economy in Denmark, it is difficult to land a green finance law that really gives priority to the green area. That is why it is very difficult to see such an economic set-up, where we will then just find out how to meet the EU's demands and spend 210 million. kr. On it. If you really want to, you can obviously, and it's always nice to know in politics. You end up with something where it's crop-based biofuels. You could also call it food-based biofuels. Maybe that's a better word. It is, of course, rape oil, soya oil and apparently not so much palm oil that comes into the tank and is not used in solutions that can help feed the world. After all, the cause of the problem is the previous government. We have, in fact, a sensible energy settlement from 2012, and it says quite briefly that we must strive to meet the demands of the VE directive for 10% of renewable energy in the transport sector, and it is formulated so broadly that it is in the transport sector. This means that agreements could be made where public transport was the main focus. You can make deals where you spend a lot on the future electric cars. So there are several ways to solve this. So we have had a bourgeois government for four years, which has done exactly the opposite. When you look at Danmarks Statistik, you'll see that CO 2 It's because we've got more cars. We have reduced taxes, so people have been able to afford to buy bigger cars, and it has ended up with CO2 What else could we have done instead of working so much to reduce registration fees? Yes, you could have taken the lead and got the electrification of society going into gear. It is grotesque to think back to the fact that the former prime minister in the opening speech in 2018 came forward with this, that there was now going to be a million electric cars. It was to be twice as good as the Social Democracy, which at that time had only half a million electric cars in their visions. So there was an expectation that something would happen: that something would be done about the opening of negotiations on greener transport. It ran in October-November last year. There were plenty of attachments. It was all parties behind the energy settlement that were invited. A great many questions were answered, and that was one of them. on electric buses, on how we could ensure charging facilities for electric buses, on how we could promote the conversion of various parts of the car sector into electric cars. There were also questions that there could be some things that could generally promote that we got more electric cars in Denmark. At that time, it was not possible to reach an agreement with the opposition at that time. It didn't even manage to make an appointment with DF. So you didn't do anything. Nothing was done to move in the right direction in the last year when a left-wing government was in power. This is deeply embarrassing, and I understand that a new minister is thinking that we must comply with the various directives in the European Union. I think that in the committee procedure on this matter we should have a list of which directives in the EU Denmark do not comply and in which cases sanctions against Denmark have been initiated. It sounds serious, and yes, it is serious, and I see that it could be challenging for the Minister to end up in prison or like it. I don't know what the penalty is in such offensive cases. We can also have this checked during the committee procedure, but I think it is a little absurd to see that so much will be done to comply with this directive, while at the same time it is well known that there are a number of other European countries that have difficulty in meeting the 10% renewable energy in the transport sector. I really think that now, when there is a timetable for further discussions in committee and there is a deadline for questions of just over a week, there will be an opportunity to turn this issue over again and see if there is no better solution than to invest so heavily in the idea of food-based biofuels on Danish cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132652	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132656	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur, as we have already discussed, that much more could have been done so that we had not ended up in the situation we are facing today. However, I would like to ask whether it really is true that it is Enhedslisten's policy when there is green EU regulation that we have not managed to follow up on where we have not just got it started, which should be started • that then you just have to break with the agreements that we have made in the European Union, with the argument that we did not get it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132738-2	I can see that there could be other cases where we were faced with having to break some EU rules and then we could see that it was a little more expensive and said that we were implementing it. Now, however, we have some solutions here about the fact that food-based biofuels must be increased into the tank, which we think is quite the wrong instrument. I could imagine other cases where we could say that it would be a little expensive, but we are in favour of the way in which we act. And then you lived up to an EU directive. I am actually very much looking forward to having these discussions on why no action has been taken against Denmark on breaches of the Water Framework Directive, infringement of the directives relating to air quality, of the Habitats Directive. So, why haven't we started cases against Denmark when biodiversity is in decline in Denmark and the agricultural production that is part of the problem is going on? Why has the European Union not come to the conclusion that what is not going to happen is that you are a member of the European Union and you must abide by all these treaties? So I really think basically that in relation to the treaties that concern our common environment and also environmental issues, which are cross-border, we must do everything possible to comply with those directives. I understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132851	Mrs Paulin for her second brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132853	I think that this is such an area where we have come a little behind in Denmark and are in a rather awkward situation. But it could also be all sorts of other countries in European cooperation who were in a similar situation in the green area that they had not just followed up on it. What do you think of that? Should we accept it, too, if other countries fail to comply with these commitments and agreements that have been agreed together in European cooperation, in other words, that there were just some who did not reach it and that then we just look at it in the eye?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132925	The question should be: what does the Enhedslisten think of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121132927	Well, Enhedslisten thinks it is really good if all countries comply with the habitats directive and the water framework directive, so we came to the conclusion that our common garden thus gained a better quality. We are also in favour of achieving real renewable energy in the transport sector. But the problem is that in the comments to the bill it says well enough that it has a positive CO2 and then it's not a solution. It's a molbo solution for 1 year, and then you go back to something completely different next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133010	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133017	Thank you, President. The bill we have here, L 51, involves closing the gap between the 5.75%. and the 7.6%. in the case of biofuels. That is what this is all about in order to comply with the EU directive of 10%. The remaining 2.4%. are found in connection with electrification of rail and road traffic. Could we have wanted us to be longer at this time, so we didn't talk about 10%, but talked about 20% or 30%.? I think we all could. I also see that a great deal is happening at the moment in this area. No later than yesterday, an attempt was made by Germany on truck traffic, which had electrified a road section so that the batteries of trucks could be charged during transport on a road and then on battery operation. At the moment, you are over in West Jutland by looking at trains on VLTJ, which run exclusively on batteries. This means that we can be free from electrification on lines where instead we can drive trains with batteries. There's a factory in Germany that's really good at this. New opportunities are constantly emerging at the moment, and that is why I think it is good that we have not jumped at the first, the best, but that we are following this very, very closely. And I look forward to seeing that, when the conditions for the Climate Act are ready, we in the conciliation circle will find solutions to the green transition in the energy sector. Developments in transport are really good. We have to say that, although we have chosen to have zero tax on electric cars, it is not the case that they are pouring out on the market. Then why don't they? After all, it is the price that is crucial, plus that you think a lot about the private car market, i.e. whether you have to invest in this with an electric car, which may in a year or two be DKK 100,000. cheaper. We are up against all this, so even if someone wants us to drive 200 km/h, we can currently only drive 25 km/h, so we have to see what the market brings, and it's going really, really fast. That is why it is, of course, essential that we have to adjust this by 10%. and therefore comply with the directive, and then we will have to look at what we have to do in transport, because there are really, really many, many opportunities. One of the things I would like to strike a blow at is that we stick to the incorporation requirement for second-generation bioethanol. We are about to have the first factory of a modern kind in Denmark in this area, and I believe that on the long track bioethanol will be one of the means we can use in that intermediate phase up to 2050, where we must make sure that we have as little use for fossil fuels as possible and instead to a large extent charge on, among other things. bioethanol and uses it as a propellant for electricity. Therefore, it is important for us that we in Denmark get a bioethanol factory to stand in Holstebro, so that we can be able to deliver in this area. The Conservative People's Party supports L 51.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133423	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133428	I could understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur sees many opportunities to solve the problem of the conversion of the transport sector. And it has to be said that we have just been through four years, when there have been left-wing governments where the Conservatives also joined the government for a certain period of time and that there were some discussions last year on greener transport, where it ended up with the government not being able to make an agreement. Now the rapporteur stands and says that we must, in the future, do one thing and the other, set up a new bioethanol plant and so on. Does the rapporteur not see that the previous government has not delivered here? Indeed, we have an old VE directive, which dates back to around 2008-2009, and this is part of the 2012 Energy Agreement. It has thus been well known that there was a figure of 10%. You could figure it out in several ways, but the 10%. was a pretty precise number. It is not just a question of nature being well, but of living up to the 10%. Does the rapporteur not see that the previous government has failed on this agenda to electrify our transport sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133535	Yes. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is right that we need 1.85 per cent. in reaching the 10%, and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen saw long ago figured out. It could have been that electricity-based transport had reached 4%.; now it is only 2.4 per cent. It is the case that I am very comfortable with the fact that the previous government has not pushed this forward. For example, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that as far as the Struer-Vejle track is concerned, as the rapporteur's party has worked a lot too should be electrified.So now we can get battery-powered trains from Struer to Vejle, after which the trains can run on power lines to Copenhagen where the batteries are charged. And then the trains, when they get back, can run on battery to Struer. I am really glad that we have not burned off a lot of billions for unnecessary electrification of trains when there is a whole new technology that is now emerging. And that's why I'm not as busy as sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, for it is very good for Denmark that we do this the right way and not unnecessarily burn money off.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133654	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133655	Well, the previous government has burned money off in the way that it has made diesel and petrol cars cheaper in the last four years. As a result, CO2 has also left a bill of 300 million. kr. in relation to the 2020 Finance Act; there are unpaid bills after the government has spent the money on giving the Danes cheaper cars. No, it cannot be said that the previous government forced the green transition; it did just the opposite. You've been pulling in the wrong direction. You should be ashamed of yourselves. You have failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133733	I would like to remind the rapporteur and the questioner that there is no direct indictment in the Assembly and that the rapporteur is fully aware of this. That is why it is the Conservative rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133742	Thank you. I can just tell sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that if we look at the room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy, then it is a long, long time since we have seen any government provide such a room for manoeuvre as the outgoing government has done. So we have left no bill in any corner of any office at Christiansborg. When we look at the electrification of the Danish transport sector, I would just like to repeat for Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen: How good it is that we haven't burned down billions in that train fund, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen would have liked to have completed. For now we are faced with new technologies that solve tasks for us much, much cheaper than what was provided for just a year ago. And down in Germany you now have test lanes for trucks that can charge batteries, so that we can even electrify there in a very, very short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133854	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. No further questions have been asked to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121133904	Thank you. This is, of course, one of the bills where you almost have bleeding eyes when you read it, both because it is actually some very unfortunate instruments that are being put into use, but most of all also because it is what is left of us sitting on our hands; we have not acted while it was time. We could understand from the rapporteur of the Left that it was about the opposition being difficult during the last parliamentary term and therefore nothing had been done. The Conservatives' rapporteur said that it is because a great deal of room for manoeuvre has been left behind. Yes, just not the room for manoeuvre in the climate, and I have to say that I think it is one of these things that is so regrettable, because of course we must live up to our international commitments and the EU agreements we are making. But we always have the choice, as to how we are going to do it, and here there has been a government for four years and not delivered on this, so it now has to be done over the neck and head, and it costs some money, which we spend on something completely wrong, because it does not have the long-term and desired effect that we would have liked to have had. I have a lot of questions that I will ask in writing when dealing with this bill. In general, however, the issue here is that there is still an exclusion of electricity in the target achievement of blending companies. I am a little curious about this, because I have seen that issues have been raised around here about the EU's state aid rules in relation to this, so we have to do so, among other things. To find out whether you are allowed to do so or whether it will be State aid in specific areas. I can't wait to hear if there's been an investigation from the Ministry. Otherwise, I would like to say that I have a number of other questions which I think are best suited to being put in writing during the committee procedure, so that we can get to the bottom of this unfortunate matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134102	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. There is no desire for questions for the rapporteur. So it is the next rapporteur who comes from New Citizens. It's sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134112	Thank you very much. With the bill we have here, the government will implement an EU directive from 2019. The draft law has elements which, as has already been mentioned, appear to be short-term solutions in relation to the incorporation obligation for biofuels. Increasing the demand for one year and then lowering the demand for the next year seems short-term, and short-term solutions leave industry facing an uncertain future in relation to investment and the development of sustainable advanced biofuels. Nor do Danish drivers and transporters have much time to prepare for a potential significant additional cost. Now we are faced with this problem because a figure has been adopted and then we have to choose a solution that, as I understand it, does not necessarily have an effect on CO2 New Citizens would like to wait for committee work before deciding how we deal with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134219	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134228	Thank you for the floor. With the L 51 bill, we in Denmark live up to our international obligations in relation to the use of sustainable biofuels, and as we are both committed to meeting international commitments and engaging in the climate struggle, we naturally support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134254	There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134259	It's interesting about these international commitments that have been in force since about. 2008-2009, and as we cemented in 2012 in the energy settlement, where the Liberal Alliance was not there and, of course, cannot be responsible for it being in that text. However, since then we have had a huge responsibility in that the Liberal Alliance has held the Transport Minister's post, which is why I had actually looked forward to it being Ole Birk Olesen who stood on the platform today, because it would then be a little easier to make what should be said to make the former minister responsible for the things that did not happen. After all, there was a process in October and November last year, in which many subjects were actually explored, in terms of how to get started on something that would actually have an effect by 2020, so that it was not necessary to mix so much bioethanol in the tank of the Danish cars. Does the rapporteur not see that it would have been better to invest in more electrification?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134359-2	First of all, the debate on the motion for a resolution B 1 withdrew and ended up lasting two and a half hours, so that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is not here, because he was also called for consultation during the period at 10:00. 13-14, and he can't be in two places at once. I have not participated in the negotiations in which the then Minister for Transport took part. I have been active in politics for so long that I know that full speed can be very slow, so I don't think there has been a lot of speed, but that full speed has appeared as very slowly from the outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134441	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134441-2	Well, it is true that the previous government was very slow in prioritizing the sustainable transition, but there was still a prime minister who back in the summer of 2018 said he wanted to have 1 million electric cars. And then there was a Minister for Transport from the Liberal Alliance who could be involved in some negotiations where that position could be promoted, and then it did not succeed. Does the rapporteur not see that something has gone wrong in the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134505	I have only 30 seconds, so the discussion about what went wrong in the previous government can hardly cover in the short time available.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134519	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur's series has been completed, and so it is the turn of the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134528	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The 2009 EU Renewable Energy Directive states that by 2020 at least 10% should be applied. renewable energy in the transport sector in all countries of the European Union. In order to ensure compliance with this requirement, the bill proposes to increase the incorporation requirement for sustainable biofuels from 5.75%. 7.6%. in 2020. The remaining part of the target is met by electricity based on renewable energy used in road traffic and on rail. As highlighted in several of the rapporteurs' comments on the draft law, there are a number of challenges associated with the current regulation of biofuels in the transport sector, and therefore the government will work for a more long-term solution in relation to how we get more renewable energy in the sector. In order to avoid meeting the higher incorporation requirement in 2020 by using palm oil, it is proposed that a minimum incorporation requirement be introduced for sustainable biofuels in petrol of at least 5%. This requirement shall also apply only in 2020. With such a requirement, the government wants to ensure that the incorporation requirement will be met primarily by increased incorporation in petrol rather than increased incorporation of biofuels into diesel, which can therefore be based on palm oil. In 2016, an incorporation requirement of 0.9% was adopted. for advanced biofuels, but as this requirement enters into force only on 1 January 2020, it has been necessary, for legal reasons, to re-submit this provision. There is no change in the requirement or in the Minister's ability to reduce the requirement. However, I expect to temporarily reduce this requirement from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020 to 0,15 per cent. This is due to the fact that there is expected to be limited production of advanced biofuels as well as rising prices due to increased global demand by 2020. Finally, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and I look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134732	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134737	Well, there's a lot of interest in this issue here, and now I'm looking at how this is financed out of these 210 million. kr., I see that it is being borrowed from the money that is actually allocated to the pool for green transport, and then I think it would be very important that we could get started on spending the remaining money, because it is kind of money that has been agreed to spend by 2020, and there is no agreement. I would like to call on the Minister to prepare a very good proposal, something that is far better in terms of content than that of mixing so much cooking oil in the tank, and to prepare something good for the energy conciliation circle for the meeting we have on 17 December, because then it may be that in transport too it will be Christmas. I think it is important that we get started on this transition and not end up in such molbo solutions by increasing the mixing requirement and mixing food oil to meet it and then taking it away the following year. Will the Minister take the initiative to get something done for the green pool, which was originally 100 million? kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134842	In fact, this is not a question that has anything to do with the treatment we are having right now, but I take the call. On the other hand, I would like to call on the author of the question not to use advice in the same way as do not comply with the law, even if it is a law coming from the EU, as part of his negotiating strategy in the future, at least not if you want to influence what I mean. If we are to have a green transition in Europe, it is very necessary that we do not become weaker compared with countries that do not comply with their legislation, but that we become harder. This also applies, of course, to Denmark. How can we say to Poland that they have to make a faster transition, that they have to meet the requirements of the European Union and that they have to do so on time, if we say at the same time: you are very sorry, but we have been working with a bourgeois government for four years, and so we have not just reached it in Denmark, and that is why we are not doing so. This is not linked, of course, and it is not possible to do so, and we will have to be a pioneer country in order to comply with the legislation, even in cases where this leads us to do some things that I must be the first to say is certainly not very appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134947	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121134947-2	It is quite true that the legislative proposal is not appropriate. What is the cause of the problem is the former bourgeois government. And there were discussions, there are 60 annexes from those negotiations, there were all sorts of good ideas about what could be electrified in the Danish transport system, lots of examples, but there was no agreement, because they failed completely. And then the Minister has some bad job right on the threshold of the new year, and I understand that, and I am very much in favour of achieving sustainable solutions in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135020	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135025	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135038	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Anders Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135100	Thank you. We must constantly become better and more effective in our green efforts. This also applies to our green efforts in agriculture, and here targeted regulation plays an important role, where, with special efforts in the right places, we can do better for both the environment and the climate in a cost-effective way. The proposal we are discussing here must ensure that we can continue down the path in which efforts towards agricultural nitrogen emissions are targeted to the areas where the need for protection is greatest. There is a need for this adjustment of the law of fertilization in order to ensure the continuation of the voluntary scheme on nitrogen reducing instruments. In concrete terms, the law of fertilization must be authorised to lay down rules on a voluntary scheme for nitrogen reducing measures in specific areas so that the voluntary scheme can be managed in the future. We can do that with this bill. Volunteering before demands is a sound principle that we must support. In this way, we will allow agriculture to reduce its nitrogen emissions in the way that is cheapest. And then it is clear that if the voluntary effort is not enough, binding demands must be made on that effort so that we can achieve our objectives. This is good for our environment, because we are particularly well suited to vulnerable areas, and it is good for agriculture, which is not slashed and which is given the opportunity to make the necessary efforts itself. We in the Social Democratic Party think that makes a great deal of sense. Finally, it should be added that the draft law also contains changes to the rules on bread wheat, which must make it more transparent as to what is required of the industry in order for main varieties to be used as bread wheat. The Social Democrats also support this. Social democracy therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135300	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135311	Thank you. I can say straight away that we in the Left support this bill. Moreover, I agree with the previous speaker that precisely on targeted regulation, it was good that we set it in motion, and it was, it might be said, that we were in a blue camp, which was like a target for it. So I am glad to hear that from the previous rapporteur, whose party would then not be in the first round, but is now joining forces in terms of targeted regulation, and good for it. This bill then introduces a new provision into the law of fertilization, which authorises the Minister to lay down rules for nitrogen reducing instruments in the targeted regulation, and they must then be funded under rural funds. The rules for this must, of course, be in place, and it was precisely in the food and agriculture package that we established the framework for targeted regulation, including compensation for farmers and also with funding from rural funds. I am pleased that the Minister will then continue on that track too, so it is possible to say on this point, as we had in blue camp, and in the food and agriculture package in particular. And then there will be a but, and that is a big but, because we can at the same time see that the government currently intends and is in the process of advancing more after-crops in the targeted regulation for 2021 until 2020, when the food and agriculture package was otherwise decided to phase it in over 3 years, namely from 2019 to 2021. It can be said that where we stand now, there is in a sense a half-time result, and when the government suddenly wants to advance more after-crops from 2021 to 2020, you can use many pictures about it, but at least you move the finish line in the middle of the race, and we do not think that is satisfactory. The advance will mean a lot of practical complications in the real world when faced with the tasks and that farmers in the targeted catchment areas will have to plan in the vicinity of 125,000 hectares of additional catch crops and total up to approx. 380,000 hectares of catch crops under the targeted regulation, well to notice something before the time that had otherwise been expected. And I think it is a pity, because many farmers have said that in general, farmers have said that it is fine with what is being proposed, as was originally proposed, namely that you can use manure where it makes sense and then take good care of the environment, so that things are in balance and so that you take good care of the aquatic environment, so that we can get things off the ground and have a wind-wind situation. And that's where we seem to be overreacting a little in the implementation. I would also say that we must take into account those who have planned on the basis of what they could rightly plan on. The government should rather than secure more other instruments, so you got some more strings to play on. You could, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. So there are other ways to do it that we can refer to. The food and agriculture package also decided that there should be a wide range of instruments available to the farmer as an alternative to catch crops and standard reduction, so as to have practical options in relation to what is best suited around the country. After all, approval of these new instruments should take place in line with the phasing-in of targeted regulation, and the new instruments are a prerequisite for the farmer to be able to meet precisely the effort requirements cost-effectively. With the advance of the effort requirements, the farmer is actually left with the catch crops and the norm reduction as the immediate only means of action, and we think this is too narrowly done by the government. There is a need to speed up the approval of new instruments, and this should be made clearer. We have already mentioned this to the Minister, but unfortunately it has so far been rejected. In conclusion, however, I would like to call on the Minister to look at this once again. However, as I have said, we support the specific legislative proposal with these comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135748	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of requests for short remarks. First, it's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135753	After all, this is a legislative proposal which allows more money to be spent on targeted regulation, after we have seen a blue agricultural package that allowed agriculture to fertilise more, and then some collective instruments had to be provided. And then what happened? Agriculture did not deliver on the collective instruments. At that time, we had an agricultural minister named Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who was really angry and was out pointing out that 12 tonnes of reduction had been delivered, and the target was 1451 tonnes, and he urged something to happen. So much did not happen while the former Minister for Agriculture was Minister. Then there's like a job, and do you have to do something about it or not? I really think it is sensible to try to see how we can then reduce nitrogen emissions, and then there are some things that will become possible by adopting this amendment. So I really do not think that the rapporteur should be so offended by the current minister, but more outraged that the former minister did not manage to do anything that got things right. Does the rapporteur not see that agriculture has a problem with the fact that collective instruments have not been delivered?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121135905	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is kind of putting things up a little wrong. After all, agriculture is trying to create more wet and minive areas. Many people have sought and have not been able to get it approved because of so-called IT and computer blunders, but we have recently confirmed that the specific approvals have now got under way, and so it is all about getting the accelerator on the ground so that we can get these approvals through where they have already been applied for. Many farmers are also out to signal that they are fully involved, and we in the Left also think that the overall objective should of course be achieved by 2021, but we just think it is wrong to move the goal line forward without any justification, and we have also confirmed that it is not something that needs to be implemented right now; there are no previous agreements about it. If you have to compare with a sports match, there are usually two half-times in a football or handball game, and then it's a little strange to whistle the game off right in the middle of the half when the result might somewhere seem to fit the Enhedslisten. So we think we should take both half-times and say that during the break we will then agree on how to put the tactics for the second half, and that is what I have just pointed out: the accelerator in the bottom with regard to wet areas and minive areas and some of the other instruments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140024	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140025	Yeah, but blue block had the first half and made a blue farm package. Now we have had a half-time in which a parliamentary election was held, and there has been a different result and a different majority, and that is the majority that has the opportunity to change some things that were defined in the blue agricultural package. That is what we are now embarking on, and the Enhedslisten is very pleased with that. One might say that it is perhaps small steps at the beginning, but it has to be big steps in reducing nitrogen leaching from 60,000 tonnes to 42,000 tonnes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140059	That Enhedslisten wants to come in and signal some things, Enhedslisten must be on target for himself. I just point out that when there is an agreement that reaches until 2021 and then you can compare with sport and everything else, but that is at least a very good picture of that, then we must have the whole period of the agreement with, and there is a challenge with regard to these around 800 tonnes in terms of a continuous phasing-in of it, but that is exactly the period of the agreement, or the rest of it, to drive in. And when you can see that there is a positive development, then it is obvious that you have to run those things through in the second half instead of lowering some bar barriers that you are doing here. But the Enhedslisten must then, together with the government, take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140139	The next question is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140142	Thank you. Now Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen my question, but then I'd like to ask another one. And now to continue in the terminology, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen has introduced, I would like to ask: what do we do when the fight is whistled off and the collective instruments are not fully delivered? Is the Left prepared, then, to make up for the shortfall that is supposed to be due to increased targeted regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140205	In the Left, we are always on the targets of the agreements we make. Now we are standing here in the middle of the two halfs to use that picture and we are now sitting in the locker room and discussing how to play the second half. There we have a clear expectation, even with the tactics I am trying to show here, that we can play through the second half and then run the result home exactly as we have agreed. We also have many farmers' support for it, the sector's support for it, and then it is strange that the government, and perhaps also with the support of the radicals, says: we will not listen to that, we like to run some other things. We think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140239	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140240	After all, it is not because we have the utmost confidence in the Left in precisely this area, because when the negotiations on the agricultural package were in progress, the first message was that it would improve the aquatic environment immediately. The measurements we get in now, when people go out and measure on the aquatic environment, show that nothing has happened. This means that the backlog we are pushing in front of us now must be added to the 6,200 tonnes that we have already postponed to the next period of the aquatic environment. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Erling Bonnesen: Does Mr. Erling Bonnesen that we should reach the EU Water Framework Directive by 2027?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140313	Well, that is not true when the rapporteur says that nothing has happened. I think the rapporteur should consider this again before she says it, and then try to look back a little in the history of it. If you take that historical look, there has been a great reduction. And yes, the agreements that we have then made, and hence the agricultural and food package, we are completely in line with them. I thought it was a good thing that the Radical Left was in the negotiations to the last whistle, but it was, of course, just before, if I may say so, really to the end, that one then jumped out of the field, not in the 90th minute, but in the 89th minute. I think that's too bad. I think the Radical Left should have stayed there and helped to achieve this, because it is a good agreement that will ensure, if it is fully implemented, that we can both farm and at the same time take good care of the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140358	Thank you for the fight to the Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140406	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is very good at the third half. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, I think that when we look at L 62, it is a toolkit that we are facing here, and I think it is actually very positive, and I also expect that most of the parties in the Folketing now think that targeted regulation is a tool that we can work with. In Denmark, of course, we must have an agriculture to produce, and this must be done in harmony with nature and the environment, and that is what we must work towards. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party are very happy that the tools that we would like to work with broadly also politically are now also possible to use. That's one of them. What is in the proposal here is that we can use the money from the rural programme, among other things. the voluntary effort in the targeted regulation. And that's the most important thing here. We must achieve a common goal that, of course, we in Denmark must be able to produce high-quality food. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party also believe that we should produce many, and why do we mean that? We believe this because there is actually a demand and we can do it in harmony with nature and the environment. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal here. This proposal is, of course, pure engineering. What will be interesting is how we will use the proposal forward-looking. What are the means on which we can agree? What are the subsidies we are going to do? This is what we look forward to looking at in the Danish People's Party. So it is a day of joy when we have a proposal here that has broad support and where targeted regulation becomes part of it. I would also like to say that we also have another tool in the toolbox, which is called catch crops. And there we agree with the Left that it is a little too bad that the government chooses to push it forward, not because we think it is a bad means of action. We think it is actually a really fine means of action. But because it is one, what should you say, upheaval, and you should be careful to call it that, but it is still another paradigm that agriculture has to work in the future when we put these things down on agriculture. There we think that the agricultural industry, like all sorts of other industries, is entitled to have a certain run-in phase in relation to it. So of course we are sorry that the government has done so, but we recognise that it is a means of action, that we know it and that it is of course also a means of action that works, and that is why the government has chosen to do so, but we do not agree with it. However, we are very much in agreement with this proposal and we look forward to the negotiations that are coming where we need the tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140638	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140646	Thank you. This is a relatively technical bill. However, this is the draft law in my eight-year parliamentary career, where there has been the shortest consultation note, for only one hearing reply has been submitted. I don't know if there's been any mistake in the shipment. At least I think you usually get polite letters saying that you're happy to be heard, but this has gone all the way under the radar in most places. It's not like it's a big deal. We provide for the possibility of financing targeted regulation through rural support instead of national funds under the de minimis scheme. We support this, but it is also very important for us to say that we are not thereby cutting off the possibility of looking at completely different regulatory mechanisms in the future. Because when we look at the agricultural package and the backlog it is likely to end up with, compared with the 6,200 tonnes that we have already sent out to the next water planning period, we face a challenge that is gigantic if we want to comply with the EU Water Framework Directive. That is why I doubt that the models we have now, the instruments we have now, can in any way bring us to the goal that I hope we will reach in 2027. That is why it is important for us to say that yes, we support this bill, but we do not cut ourselves off from looking at other regulatory mechanisms and other sources of funding. We have among other things. We note that the wise men have come up with a tax model with which we can also see a great deal of sense. We look forward to that discussion in the context of the discussions on future nitrogen efforts, which we are looking forward to in general and which we hope will get under way as soon as we have the report from the nitrogen committee, because there seems to be a great deal of catching up to do. We will therefore look forward to the great debate on nitrogen in principle in this context, but so far we will also be supporting this rather technical draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140843	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140848	I think it is fine that we keep a close eye on what is going on in this area. It's exactly what it's supposed to be. But then comes the question of how we should respond to it. Without repeating everything that we mentioned during my rapporteur's speech, I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur why it is not so easy to play with the industry, since it is now that the industry itself is making some suggestions as to how it could be done. Why does the Radical Left say that we are just driving across the profession, apparently to send out some other signals?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121140918	Well, I think that one has been very attentive to the industry, perhaps even too much, because one has given the concessions at the forefront and then listened to the industry, who said that we will come after ourselves with some collective instruments. You haven't delivered that. And we still have a chance to see if we deliver enough in the end. It is true that the applications have been speeded up, so there are now more than there were when we were sitting and having the same discussion a few months ago and when the current President of the Left was supposed to have been loudly banded. It looks a little better now, but I still have serious doubts as to whether the collective instruments are reaching their goal, as otherwise planned. I have to say that perhaps there has been a tiny bit too naive in relation to the industry, because it has of course been found that it was not quite so easy to come by with the austerity that it was to take advantage of the concessions that were given at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141012	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141013	But it was quite as it should be, that is, what the former minister said there in the middle of the first half, namely getting started, guys and friends etc., because we need to get a little more momentum on it. It was exactly as it was supposed to be. And that is exactly what has now arrived. That is why I find it strange that you do not listen to the profession and try to play together and say that you could make a joint effort to achieve the full goal at the end of the second half. That is what I am wondering, i.e. that you sort of push the industry aside and don't care about it and just rush over it because you want to send out some other signals. That's what I think is weird. It was something else if no other alternative solutions could be identified. Then I could understand that you wanted to tighten the rhetoric. But there are even proposals here. So wasn't it worth considering turning things over one more time and listening a little to the profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141106	Yeah, but it has something to do with the order. It doesn't matter when two plus two becomes four, does it? It is also a question of when it will happen. And that's not gonna work. That is why we were against the package, and that is why we ended up not joining in, that is to say giving the concessions in advance, and then putting the austerity on the table afterwards. And now we are even in doubt as to whether we are going to achieve anything at all with the austerity and collective means of action. Let's hope so. But in any case, the order is wrong, because it is right now that nitrogen is discharged into the aquatic environment. The aquatic environment can't sit around and think that it's okay, because in two years it'll be a little better. That's not how it works. So that is why we have been very critical of the package, in other words because of the order and uncertainty as to whether we were going to finish at all; whether we were getting an accounting that was in balance at all. Well, that's the word, sir. Erling Bonnesen started pulling in, and that's exactly what this is about. It is balance in the aquatic environment, and it is balance in terms of the instruments proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141206	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141213	Thank you for the floor. When the Danes went to the elections in June it was with a burning desire for a new green government, and we also have that wish in the SF. That is why I am very pleased that the government is starting from one end and taking up the huge task that we seem to still have in reducing agricultural nitrogen emissions. Thank you very much for that. This is, of course, a major and difficult task that we have set ourselves for and, as we know, it will not be solved by 2020 alone, even though that is what has been proposed in the first place. When the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission came in due course, we in the SF were in complete agreement that targeted regulation makes really, very good sense, and we still agree with that. It makes sense, of course, to start by making nitrogen-reducing interventions where this is really needed, so that we can make targeted schemes to suit our nature and the aquatic environment, in the right places. After all, it is important that we do this because we have to live up to the Water Framework Directive, and it is of no use that we continue to sneak away, as has been done so far. However, I would just like to make one small comment on this, because in the SF we have a slight scepticism that the government is once again going to have the map out of its pocket in order to compensate agriculture financially in order to take proper care of nature and the aquatic environment. As the government is probably aware of at the moment, there are many Christmas wishes from the SF and from other support parties in the green area, and we think that the rural programme could perhaps be spent on other and a little more exciting green things than compensating agriculture financially to take responsibility and take proper care of nature and the aquatic environment. But we also understand that it is the art of the possible when we talk 2020, and what is really important here is: what will long-term action look like? What are we going to do when the agricultural package expires? That is what we are really looking forward to discussing. So with those words, I would say that we in the SF support the proposal as it stands, just for the time being, and then we hope that the government will be with us when we have to put the long-term plan for the aquatic environment and the responsibility and care of nature when the agricultural package expires, just as we are now with the government in the short-term effort in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141455	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141500	Thank you. Now it is rare that the SF and the Left agree on so much even, but it can happen now and then. There is at least one thing in the heading, and that is about the targeted regulation that I heard the SF's rapporteur now say was a good thing. So that's what I'm gonna take because it was us in the blue camp who sat in the driver's seat to get it in. At that time, SF wasn't exactly on the field, but I'm glad you brought it. Then I will skip a lot of the other things and skip to the end, as the rapporteur said: the SF is very excited that you have to look at some future things and it sounds like it should now have with the big hammer on something. Could SF just put two words on what it is, this great hammer, which I like to see the SF already swinging, is on?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141551	I don't know if it's a big hammer. After all, we have a problem, and it is that our aquatic environment is not feeling so well, and we must do something about that. So far it has not been very successful in doing anything about it, as was also pointed out by the Radical Left on previous occasions. That is why we need to use a little more money to look at long-term efforts. First of all, I hope that we will listen to the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, as they were at the time, namely that if agriculture is to be compensated financially for this, they must find the money within the industry or we can impose a tax. That is also what we have said in the past. I do not think we should continue to pay agriculture to take responsibility. It's kind of like giving teenagers pocket money to do the dishes, because they are now at an age when they should be able to figure it out by themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141642	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141644	Thank you for the first part of the answer. Now the SF's rapporteur, like a picture of nothing happening. I think we should try to refer to developments from 1990 to now. Are we that complete in the finish line? No, we're not. That's why we just made some deals, among other things. the agricultural and food package, which sets out some lines for where we need to be reached when we reach 2021. We have had this in the debate here. But when I hear about that big hammer and a little more words were put on it, I can understand that it is not just the SF, but the Radical Left who has said that one third of the current active farmland is going out of service. Is that SF's goal, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141725	I'm not quite sure it is. I am a completely new rapporteur, but I could imagine that it is also the SF's objective that we think we have been far too unambitious so far. I also hope that the Left and the rapporteur will agree with this, since we can look at the figures, that we have not achieved the reduction in nitrogen emissions, which had actually been raised. This is actually quite serious, because we have a water framework directive to live up to. Then we'll see if agriculture can keep up when we get some new balls on the soup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. It's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121141811	Thank you. I guess the targeted regulation wasn't an invention by the Left. I guess it was the Nature and Agriculture Commission that looked at models for how to come up with something that was a different regulation. This bill may seem a little small, and I am also surprised that there is only one hearing answer. Yes, it might actually be nice to know why there is only one consultation answer that is usually many when it comes to agricultural aspects. This is kind of a bit of a showdown with a blue agricultural package. It's a start-up. But it is also a start which, in general, makes it possible to use some agricultural subsidies a little more freely. And I think you do that in a certain way right now. It may well be that in a few years' time, we will be open to it. After all, the major problem with our nitrogen pollution from agriculture was that the blue agricultural package allowed more manure to be used and that agriculture was then expected to comply with the requirements of the collective instruments. We have found that you are not skilled enough to do so. At present this year, you are behind by perhaps about 800 tonnes. Do you have to do something about it? Yeah, I actually think that's what you should do. So we're gonna have to go in and patch that up. And I look forward to new opportunities after there is no majority for the blue agricultural package. And we have seen that new marine farms and extensions of existing marine farms were cancelled by the Minister for the Environment, and I think that is very good because otherwise we would have been faced with the possibility of increasing nitrogen pollution. Now we are starting to take up what can be further done. And I very much look forward to having some good discussions on future agricultural subsidies, on how it should be modelled, on what the European Union offers and on how we should have much more environment for money. I look forward to that, because we have to do that task with the Water Framework Directive. In view of the fact that the latest figures are about 58 000 tonnes of nitrogen and that nitrogen pollution has not fallen, as provided for in the blue agricultural package, we have a huge task, and we have to reach a target in 2027. So we have to come down to something similar to 42 000 tonnes of nitrogen. We do not simply get there, and that is why we have to do something to achieve it. There must be less animal production in Denmark. There must be a small agricultural area. And it doesn't have to be bad that we end up there. This allows us to have a country where there is much more forest, where there is much more nature, where biodiversity is taken into account, where there is emphasis on recreational activities, and not just one million. (a) to produce pig feed. So that gives us some opportunities, and I look forward to doing so in relation to being on the field now and helping to influence what kind of framework conditions it is for the agricultural sector to be forward-looking rather than sitting on the bench looking at what the blue block is doing around agriculture. In addition to this law, there will probably be some sort of agreement in the country that relates to things and that uses this law to move around some agricultural subsidies. There is our approach that we must have the most environment for the money, and it can be done in many ways • that's what makes it exciting. I think it is quite okay to use rural aid in a slightly different way. And we look forward to getting the most environment for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142157	Thank you to the rapporteurs. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142201	Thank you. I saw, of course, it was a good month ago that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said in the press that the Left had to get out of the future meetings and negotiations, I think, written, in the field of agriculture. And at least in the specific case, which we also debated a little earlier, about the advance of targeted catch crops, the Enhedslisten has succeeded in pushing the Left out. So one can at least say that now Enhedslisten gets like that as well as tasted the sweetness of victory; at least in that tackle there. Then we'll see how it goes with some of the other things. The rapporteur is a little bit concerned about this and says directly: as I just remember what was said, it is quite fine that the agricultural area in Denmark is getting smaller. That is something that matches what the Radical Left has been out saying: that it is one third of the current active agricultural land that is going out, even in the view of the Enhedslisten. Or how can that be explained?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142307	Well, Enhedslisten prefers to be measured by its environmental results and not by how many Left people you tackle. So, sir... Erling Bonnesen don't take so hard. I just think that there were four years when the Left had a great opportunity to influence agricultural policy, and now there is a need to be cleaned up, and the Enhedslisten is happy to participate in it. After all, there are different parties that have developed plans for agriculture, and we have included in our climate plan the need to reduce the agricultural area, and that is enough with 500,000 hectares up to 2030. So we will probably achieve the same thing as the Radicals, who say 800,000 hectares towards 2050. But that is not the way to say that there is no activity on those land. It is also that we have more forest in Denmark. Well, we have ended up in something where we produce as many pigs as possible, and I am not sure that it is the right future for us to have a sustainable world. Then we shall have much more forest and more nature. So what the Radicals also have is a very good runaway.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142410	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142411	That we must take good care of our nature and aquatic environment and travel more forest, we are in complete agreement with the Left. And that is not something we just say, it is not just in words, it is also in action. It is also a result, because we have helped to achieve that goal, including in action. What I'm thinking about is that now Enhedslisten won the first tackle there, and I can just say hello and say that I've gotten well over that tackle and am still away fit for fight and in top form. So we're ready for the next hits. But if the Enhedslisten were to win again, that's the logic of the 90 mandates, so no matter how hard we tackle it in the Left, it's the 90 mandates that count, then what happens when you come over to the finance minister and have to explain that now we have a majority to take so much land and lower production so and so much? I mean, it costs a lot of money on welfare. How will Enhedslisten explain this and where should the money be found? Because that's the sign that has sometimes stood in front of a finance minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142508	They must be found in the EU's agricultural aid funds, where we would like to furniture the 6 billion. kr., which flows to Danish agriculture, and where we would like to come up with something, for example. If you have permanent grass on some land, you will receive a higher subsidy, instead of going all the time to get as much grain and maize as possible out there. In other words, we think that this agricultural aid should be used much better. We can also take full advantage of continuing to grant aid when setting up forests on agricultural land, finding a system where taking land out to nature is also a plus, using the gross area model, which I outlined, as a good solution, and perhaps modelling agricultural aid. And I'm afraid I don't have 15 minutes to unfold this further.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142549	That is correct, but thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121142556	Thank you, President. After all, what Bill L 62 is really about is that the European Commission has approved an amendment to the Danish rural development programme that allows the support scheme for voluntary efforts in the targeted regulation from 2020 to be financed with rural aid instead of the current purely national aid within the framework of the de minimis regulation. In other words, by putting it into rural support, we can provide financial support to farmers for a targeted regulation of catch crops. A rural aid scheme will normally be established on the basis of the Rural Act and the draft law will ensure the necessary link between the two sets of rules, so that the voluntary scheme on nitrogen reducing funds can be continued from 2020. That is what the Minister needs here in L 62. Then I have to say that when I listen to some of the rapporteurs here today, and that is because you hear about the government's negotiations with the Red Camp, with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen e.g. I wish most of you, or all of you, had seen a broadcast from DR in the autumn of 2018, which I think is the first I have ever seen of positive broadcasts about the Danish nature and streams. One Sunday evening, the former Environment Minister Christian Christensen began to say that the birds are dead, the fish are dead, the whole thing is dead at Ringkøbing Fjord. The broadcast on DR that Sunday evening in 10 minutes showed ornithologists and biologists who walked around Ringkøbing Fjord and could tell that the fjord was in a condition that it had not been in for many, many years, and that there were species that had not been seen for many, many years, and that the fjord had turf grass, etc., that left nature and that there were species that had not been seen for long. That is the way it is out there where I come from, that is, the West Jutland, where nature is not in a catastrophic state. However, we must take care of it, and in the Conservative People's Party we agree that we want to implement the agricultural package, which we have now decided on, and that we are, of course, ready to take the responsibility that needs to be done. We stand by the fact that we agreed that we should remove 3,500 tonnes with the collective instruments and 3,500 tonnes with the targeted regulation at the end of 2021, so we were down to 51,000 tonnes of nitrogen. Then, from 1 January 2022 and at the end of 2027 we had to find another 6,200 tonnes, so we came down to 44,800 tonnes. Actually, that's what we're doing. Then there are some intercepts where there are some who become nervous that we will not make it, and that is why we must, of course, increase our interest in it. But I have to say that when I hear the debate here today, I just want to make it clear that Danish agriculture is world-class. Danish agriculture has the lowest CO2 We cannot get too little of Danish agriculture and I get chills when I hear that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen will cut agriculture down to a third. And I must also say that I am really going to get hurt too, i.e. the economy, and especially for the Minister of Finance, when Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen will turn 800,000 ha into nature, which means that we need approx. 100 billion kroner. On this. At least some people are about to find some money in the box so that it can be done. Danish Agriculture and Denmark's Conservation Association, Martin Merrild and Maria Gjerding, came up with a plan for 100,000 hectares, which I think is very sensible to start with, and I expect the government is counting on that. However, it was said at that time that we have an amount similar to 12 billion. kr., we have to find it. But just to be clear: Danish agriculture we need. And I think we should reach out to Danish agriculture so that they can help solve this problem. I know they will. I know that farmers are professionals and that they are ready to join, and I am a little worried if the government along with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and others are making a plan that will force something down on farmers without having an agreement from farmers that this can be done and achieved. That is why I hope that the government and the minister in this Chamber today will come to the rest of us and ask us to be involved in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143110	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143114	Thank you. It is not because Enhedslisten has a plan, because it is 800,000 hectares that are going back to being nature. We have a number of transition points. One of them is actually 100,000 hectares extra forest. It's kind of a production forest. We also have 100,000 hectares for energy forest, which is, as such, part of agricultural land and which can receive subsidies for it. I don't quite recognize that picture of how good nature is. We have seen biodiversity in Denmark, which is in decline. And that has something to say, then, that we have such a large agricultural sector, so 62 per cent. of the area in Denmark is agricultural area. There are regular studies that show that there are more pesticide residues in our groundwater, and studies that show that nature around a field that is moderately sprayed with Roundup takes damage 10 m from that field. We have a NOVANA report which shows that the level is 58,000 tonnes of nitrogen emissions and that it has not fallen despite the blue agricultural package. Does the rapporteur not see that we have a problem out there with our nitrogen pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143221	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned biodiversity, but I have to say that it has little to do with nitrogen emissions, but let it be. The rapporteur also mentioned pesticide residues. And yes, you find more pesticide residues, and you do that because you analyze on several different substances, and thus you find more. That means that you have many more on the palette today than you had just two years ago. We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety have followed what has developed here. But we just have to make it absolutely clear that our drinking water has never been better than it is now. So we have to stop pronouncing something that doesn't last. With regard to biodiversity, which is something other than what we are talking about here, namely nitrate emissions, we are aware of it. And the Conservative People's Party agrees that we must do something about that. And that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143326	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143327	So we have a NOVANA report which was presented quite recently, and it shows that there was not the expected fall that was otherwise foreseen in the blue agricultural package in which the Conservatives are involved. And then it is natural that you react and try to discuss how to reduce it and adjust something so that we can get closer to the objective of reducing nitrogen pollution. I think it's perfectly natural. It's due diligence. For the biodiversity issue: nitrogen pollution is actually important. There are plants that cannot live because there is so much nitrogen in our free nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143403	I think it is important that we keep in mind that we have an agreement which, in 2027, means that we have to go down to 44,800 tonnes. In the Conservative People's Party, we do not panic because there are some measurements in the intermediate phase that say that we are a little behind. But we also understand that when we are behind, we have to deliver afterwards. That is why we fully support the agricultural package and the objectives that have been set. And we kind of reach out to the government and say, "Come to us and get help in this area." We would like to contribute, and we actually believe that we are better at contributing to it than Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143453	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143456	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I am listening a lot to the fact that Conservatives, as I almost understand it, want to reach out to the government, and that is where I think we need to get some clarity in this Chamber today. Does this mean that the Conservatives will not at all refuse to bring forward these efforts that the government has set up in the Finance Act? For it is clear that, if you completely reject it, it is also difficult to reach an agreement. So I would like clarification from the rapporteur on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143531	I would be quite gentle in my replies to the rapporteur in that it is the case that we in the Conservative People's Party are included in the agricultural package. I have attended most of the meetings that have been going on for the last three years in this area of changing ministers. I think that is the fourth minister in all now. I can just welcome the rapporteur and say that the Conservative People's Party has not been invited. So the Conservative People's Party actually knows nothing but what we can read in the press about what the government wants in this area. So can we not just see what the government wants before we have to answer it? But I just have to say that we are a responsible green party, that we are at the goal of the agricultural package that we have been in and that we want to contribute, because we are green votes working.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143629	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143631	I'd like to sign for that. I also believe that broad agreements in the field of agriculture are essential in relation to our profession. So I will certainly see from here whether I can work on a telephone call for the rapporteur. However, I would just like to confirm that there are also no ultimate demands from the Conservative People's Party and that, in this way, one is willing to enter into a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143653	The Conservative People's Party is not known for making ultimate demands. That's what we let the rest of us do. We are mandates in the Danish Parliament that will work, and we are even green mandates that will work, and we are prepared to take responsibility. We did so with the agricultural package, and we are still prepared to do so, so that the agricultural package can be implemented in the context in which it is put forward. So we are ready to work constructively, also so that at the same time we will say that it is of course also important for us that we have Danish agriculture with us, so that we get a constructive solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143732	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we thank the Conservatives' rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to the Alternative's rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143743	Thank you. In the alternative, we are very concerned about reducing nitrogen emissions. We are talking here in L 62 about a voluntary scheme, and that is fine, but we also need concrete, targeted and long-term work to reduce nitrogen emissions for the sake of our watercourses. We think it is good to fund voluntary action with EU support rather than national support, and this should then free up funds for efforts to support the conversion of green farming. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143827	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, who is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143836	Thank you very much. I will be brief and deal with the present draft law, which is of a technical nature, so that we have the opportunity to finance the support schemes in the voluntary efforts of the targeted regulation from rural support, and New Citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143859	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121143908	Thank you for that, President. In the first place, I read the bill as: New rules against bride. By re-reading, I can see that this is not the case, although it was perhaps a good idea. After all, we agree with the Left and several other rapporteurs that the advance of catch crops is not the best idea in the world, and that is, of course, not least in view of the fact that S chose not to change the agricultural framework conditions. It's a good thing to go to the polls on that we agree with that and therefore it's a little too bad that it's being moved for a year. But we also think it is very good. Because I also remember the controversy about targeted regulation in 2016, when the waves went very high here in the Assembly Hall, and this is evidence of some collective ability in this house to become wiser and to insinuate itself. For now it is something we are working on and something that can work and can appeal widely. So, of course, we support the fact that it is now being made more flexible in the way of volunteering. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144022	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the rapporteur's line is over and we move on to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144034	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. The targeted regulation of agricultural nitrogen emissions was included in the recommendations made by the Nature and Agriculture Commission in 2013, and there was broad support for the recommendations both from the industry, from the green organisations and also from the parliamentary parties, and the government also continues to believe that targeted regulation is the right way to go. But it is because it makes sense that nitrogen reduction is targeted at those areas where it is needed, and that is because regulation is based on a principle of voluntaryness before requirements. So agriculture will have the opportunity to step up efforts on a voluntary basis, which will ensure that efforts can be made by those who can solve it cheapest, but if the voluntary effort is not sufficient, the residual effort will be secured by a requirement for agriculture, so that we have the assurance that we will have the nitrogen reduction that we want. It is precisely the opportunity for agriculture to take up its efforts voluntarily that we want to improve with this bill. The European Commission has approved that the action of 2020 can be supported by funds from the rural programme rather than purely national aid, as we know it today, and this also means that the aid will not be limited by the de minimis regulation framework. So with this bill, we are creating the necessary link between the nitrogen regulation of the Fertilisation Act and the rural aid scheme that can be made according to the rules of the Rural Fund Act, and thus we are creating the basis for farmers who will voluntarily deal with the increased requirements to be compensated financially for their costs for it. As has also been discussed in this Chamber, the government has decided that efforts in targeted regulation should be adjusted upwards by 2020. We believe that we need to do this when we see that nitrogen emissions do not fall as they had been expected, and when we see that there have been insufficient commitments to achieve this objective by means of voluntary collective measures. As has been mentioned here, my predecessor was already aware of this. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself said that he was impatient and that if this was not solved by voluntary means, other means would have to be used. That is, of course, what the government is doing in order to ensure that we achieve the objectives that have been set, and it is therefore surprising that Mr. Erling Bonnesen in his speech up here has reported so clearly that the Left cannot contribute to this, and I think there is reason to stress that this is not just about making extra catch crops. You have other options if you want to meet the objectives next year: intermediate crops, early sowing, and you can also reduce your nitrogen consumption by 2020 if you want to. So there are other options than catch crops. But it is, of course, a discussion we are having with the parliamentary political parties at the moment, and although the Left has reported that they cannot be involved, I am hearing it, and I am glad that there are also parties to the right of the government who want to take environmental responsibility, and I hope that we can take advantage of this in this context. We are continuing these probes, and I hope that they can be completed soon so that we can also get reports to agriculture, which exactly will apply for 2020. But this bill isn't about that. However, this is the prerequisite for us to be able to implement the planned model of targeted regulation in the future when funding is transferred from national funds to the rural programme. Then, as has been said, the draft law also contains an amendment to the rules of the law of fertilization on bread wheat, and here, of course, there is the possibility of establishing the criteria to be met by wheat varieties so that they can be applied with the higher nitrogen standard laid down for bread wheat. It is a question of criteria, for example. bake quality. There we are already making demands on wheat varieties in relation to the fact that they can be used as bread wheat, but with this bill it becomes more transparent for the industry what is required. So this proposal is the execution of a work on bread wheat criteria, which has been carried out in cooperation with blacksellers and the roughness and commerce industry, and of course I fully agree that it must be visible to everyone when a variety can be judged suitable as bread wheat. In those words, I look forward to the examination of the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144616	Thank you for that to the Minister. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144621	Thank you. We in the Left also fully accept environmental responsibility, not only in words, but also in action and in practice. That is why, together with our good friends in blue camp, we were also at the forefront of getting the food and agriculture package going, with targeted regulation and all the other things. We also want clean water in our taps, we also want to take care of our aquatic environment, we also want to ensure that more forest is raised and so on. etc. What we blame in this is that, as I explained earlier in the debate, these extra crops are now being brought forward, as it were, in the middle of the fight. And we also ask the question: why run across the industry when we can point out other options? And it is, as we have mentioned earlier in the debate, that we could speed up wet- and mini-sea areas, and we could look at it with precision agriculture. It is true and noted, as the Minister says, that there are some small other options, but there is one point that we should point out that there should be more speed. That is where I, like myself, am calling for the Minister and the government to be able to get it up and running and get more other instruments on the ground. Will the Minister ensure that, because that has not been possible so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144730	I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that it is good to use all the things we have on the palette in order to achieve this objective of reducing nitrogen emissions. Because now that we have counted up what has been promised, what has come from applications, and that is all these collective instruments, we can see that it is estimated that we have to reduce by 800 tonnes of nitrogen, and that is all we are saying: halted, stop, we simply have to catch up! That is why the government is demanding with due care that more is already to be delivered by 2020, so that we achieve the objective that Mr. Erling Bonnesen's party itself has been involved in setting up. So I actually think that Mr. Erling Bonnesen should thank us for actually implementing what the previous government itself has set out as an objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144834	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144835	We have also said that we must, of course, achieve those objectives within the agreement period, but we also say: let us use the agreement period as planned and agreed. Now I will not repeat what I have already said, but I will concentrate entirely on whether the Minister will now and here ensure that more of the instruments which the industry itself has also sought will be able to get under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144902	I am doing everything possible to ensure that we get the instruments that can get going, and I have therefore also pointed out, in the context of targeted regulation, that it is more than post-crops that farmers can use. I would also like to say to the Left that I hope that we can have future broad agreements on the development of agriculture in Denmark, including on the green conversion of agriculture, and that is why I am a little sad that the Left has resigned, at least in relation to the nitrogen regulation for 2020, but I hope that we may be able to get other green parties on the journey.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144941	Thank you for that to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121144958	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145017	Thank you for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, B 16, the authors of the motion for a resolution want the government to review the rules for naming educational institutions and thus to make suggestions on how to ensure that educational institutions are given Danish main names. The resolution concerns educational institutions in both the Ministry of Children and Education and the Ministry of Education and Research. The proposal is justified by the fact that all educational institutions in Denmark should have a Danish main name and that several educational institutions today have misleading and unclear English-sounding names. The Danish People's Party wants the institutions to take responsibility for safeguarding the Danish language. The government fully agrees that educational institutions should have comprehensive and fair names. Both the Prime Minister, the Minister for Children and Education and myself have pointed this out in different contexts. In the interests of young people who have to choose an education, it is important that the institutions should be called something that can be readily understood. Today, in both the Ministry of Children and Education and in my own area, the names of the educational institutions are decided by the boards of directors who are familiar with their pupils, programmes and customers. It follows from the institutional legislation in the field of the Ministry of Children and Education that the name of the institution is approved by the Minister for Children and Education. When approving the name of the institution, the Ministry shall assess whether the name proposed is misleading or may create a risk of confusion with other educational institutions, private firms or other bodies. The Minister for Children and Education has indicated that in the future she will not allow educational institutions to take names such as Tradium or Learnmark, as the names are not recognizable to the general population. In the future, these schools will only be able to get approved names such as Randers Business School and Horsens Business School respectively. In my own area, the names of the institutions are laid down in the institution's Staff Regulations, which must be approved by the Ministry of Education and Research. It is clear from the legislation that the Danish term Business Academy or Professional College must be included in the institution's name. I have indicated to the institutions in the field of education and research that their names must be comprehensive and comprehensible. Danish professional colleges have recently followed up with a letter stating that they will do more to communicate the clear educational and professional focus in their education programmes, and I look forward very much to continuing the dialogue with them on this very subject. The government therefore agrees with the proposers that the educational institutions should have a comprehensive and recognizable name. On the other hand, the government does not agree that a full and fair name is necessarily always Danish. There may be cases where a German or English-sounding name supports this purpose best. Therefore, the government will not legislate on requirements for Danish educational names either. When the same resolution was first dealt with under the previous government back in January 2018, it was also the position of the Social Democratic Party. The government cannot therefore support draft parliamentary resolution No. B 16.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145332	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will start the rapporteur's round. Well, I'm sorry, I just got one. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145345	Thank you for your speech, and I apologise, but the Minister's speech was so quick that I barely had time to press in, but I was lucky to have made it. And thank you for the partial support. I am then surprised that it is said that German and English names can be okay. We are in Denmark, and Danish names should be self-evident. And I think that when the Prime Minister in the opening speech here in the Danish Parliament said: "When did we stop calling things what they are in Denmark?" It is therefore a totally unnecessary alienation, for me it will also be alienation if we start to say that educational institutions can well have German and English and French and all sorts of other names and not Danish names. So what exactly are some German and English names that we have to approve and that make the government unable to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145441	In fact, I just think it is important to distinguish. Yes, we should not alienate, and yes, we should not call education something very smart and fine that people cannot relate to and cannot relate to. I think it has something to do with language less than it has anything to do with what words we generally use. In order to respond specifically to the rapporteur's question, this means in practice that it is not my resort, but that a German minority school could not be called anything in German, or that CBS could not be called CBS. And I think that we are going differently by actually insisting that it is not necessarily the language that is driving, but that one can relate to it and recognize it and directly relate something to it, both for the young people themselves, who have to choose these courses, but actually also their parents and the rest of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145539	I fully agree that the schools of the German minority in Denmark can also have German names, it is quite fine, but not that it should be common understanding, especially in youth education, to have German or English names. Well, I can still think that okay, CBS, why? I guess it's actually a business school. It is fine to have some foreign sounding names next door, in relation to the fact that you want to be mentioned in the world. I can understand that. But that the main name of a Danish educational institution in Denmark should not be Danish, I simply do not understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145616	But basically, I think that we then have a disagreement as to how categorically we should go to it. I fully share the rapporteur's concern about this alienation and this tendency to name educational institutions far away from what they are recognised as, and I would very much like to take that discussion. I am also in the process of discussing this matter myself, for example. with professional education in Denmark, and I would like to acknowledge that they are taking this hand in hand and are in the process of dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145647	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. So now we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145656	The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party concerns the naming of educational institutions. The proposal requires the government to review the rules for naming educational institutions and to make suggestions on how to ensure that they are given Danish main names. In the Social Democratic Party we have sympathy for the intention that the name of an educational institution should be understood; it must reflect what it is for an institution and what it is doing. After all, the education system can be difficult enough to understand in itself, and it will not be easier for the institutions to have names that may sound clever, but which do not really indicate that it is an institution which carries out education that hides behind its name. This also testifies to an educational sector in which marketing and branding and competition have so far taken place and where the training institutions, in order to attract students and partners, act on the market as if they were private companies. This is a development which should be sceptical, because education cannot basically be put on a market formula. So we actually share the concern raised and we also welcome the debate. Having said that, we do not believe that it is for the Folketing to legislate on the language of the educational institutions. And if it was because we wanted to take a stand with the marketing of our education system, it was probably hardly here that we should start. We basically believe that the boards of the institutions should have the freedom to choose the name that they think is most appropriate for their operation and that it is not Christiansborg's job to run it in detail. The Minister for Children and Education and the Minister for Education and Research have both sent out very clear signals to the educational institutions that they expect the names of the institutions to be fair for their work and not for their branding strategy. I trust that the ministers in their dialogue with the educational institutions can ensure that they have more comprehensive names than we have seen today. In addition, one could well imagine that an English, a German or perhaps a Nordic sounding name could better live up to the ideal that the name should be adequate for the institution's operation. If the educational institution's activities are carried out in English, it may also make very good sense that the name is in English. Similarly, it is also very natural that the educational institutions of the German minority have German names, since the teaching takes place in German. So, against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145940	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121145944	Thanks for the speech. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says that this is not the task of the Folketing. I think it is Parliament's job to tackle something when it does not work. When we have a Prime Minister who pointed out in his opening speech that we have a problem here and when we have a Minister for Children and Education who also clearly says that these names make no sense, I think that is something we should actually address. When we have schools called Tradium and College 360 and Zealand and Learnmark, and I don't know what, it's all something that I think most people in here, if they don't have a special knowledge of schools, don't really know what it means. Is it not up to the Danish Parliament to tackle this and tell the ministers that we must actually do something about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150032	But I fully share the rapporteur's astonishment at some of the names we see educational institutions around Denmark have taken on a desire to try to burn or stand out, or whatever may be the reason for their names. And I also share the intention that this is not the way it should be, but I believe that we can help bring about change from in here without the need for us to legislate on everything. I think that sometimes, and this was one of the points raised by the Prime Minister in his opening speech, we have suffered too easily by pressing in here the button that says: then we will legislate a little more into the details until we have regulated our entire society in detail. I believe that we can conduct politics by having dialogue with the institutions and by using the tools provided by the law today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150119	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150121	But that is also what we want. After all, there is already a procedure that says that the name must be approved. So you just had to take it seriously and look at just adjusting it so you don't just approve names. That is also what they say they want to do in the future, but then I do not understand why this proposal cannot be supported, because then we will have it put into the system so that we can actually make that assessment. Does the rapporteur not think that we should address the places where we do not understand their names and tell the schools that they must actually do this better?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150155	Yes, and my very clear impression is that this signal is also being received in the educational institutions and that they are listening when two new ministers in the fields of children and education, education and research, respectively, strongly signal that they would like the educational institutions to be called something in Danish and something that describes what the educational institutions are doing. So I actually have a belief that it will change, even without us pressing the legislative button in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150222	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left. It's sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150238	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this matter again. The names of educational institutions must be understandable, and the names must make sense and be reasonable. It is clear that different things can always be added to how they should be weighed down, but I can at least say that there are many names of different educational institutions that are already quite okay and quite all right, and I hear no doubt about that either, but there are certainly also examples of names that have already been mentioned, which may well give rise to a return to this area. In addition to that, I think it could be fine, and I do not know if that is how it should be understood, if the minister would • we can almost say it in good Danish • put water over to a cup of coffee so that we could have a talk about this. I think that would be quite fine if that were to be understood. It is good that we have a good debate on the Danish language, and we in the Left would like to take it. We agree with the authors that it is important to safeguard the Danish language. We also agree that educational institutions should use a name that is both recognizable and fair. However, this is also a debate about something of principle, namely the degree to which the institutions must have self-determination and the extent to which it must be regulated centrally. There is no secret that we in the Left are a very decentralized party. To sum up briefly, I would like to say that the authors of the proposals, as I have understood them, believe that there is a need for a review of the rules for naming these educational institutions in order to come up with a proposal on how best to ensure that educational institutions are given Danish main names. Today, the rules are such that the boards of the institutions decide their names. It is the boards who are familiar with their own institution, pupils, education and so on, and it is therefore also from the point of view of those who are best able to assess whether the names of the institutions are easily recognizable for the trainees and the buyers of the graduates. In addition, it follows from the institutional legislation of the Ministry of Education that the name of the institution is approved by the Minister, and at the time of approval the Minister then assesses whether the name proposed is misleading or acceptable, or whether there is a risk of confusion with other institutions or, for that matter, private firms. In the field of education and research, the names of the institutions are laid down in the Staff Regulations of the institution, which must also be approved by the Minister. The Left believes that the decision is best taken by the institution itself with the approval of the Minister, but, as has already been said, it would be good if the Minister would call a cup of coffee and talk over the coffee to discuss the issues mentioned here, so that we could have a discussion on them here, we should call them crooked situations and incomprehensible situations, which we think it is good to have taken up and how it should be dealt with. We have also noted that the current Minister of Education has referred to the names of some educational institutions as strange, and she will, at least according to the statements we have understood, also put an end to such naming in the future. So it suggests that there are more who are ready to have a talk about it. Finally, it is worth emphasising that the vast majority of educational institutions already use a Danish name. This applies to institutions under both ministries. So these are just some institutions that use a name, which it may not be able to understand what is concealing. It is of course important that all educational institutions use a recognisable name, and we therefore appeal to the institutions to use a comprehensive Danish name when they act within their borders. We certainly share the views of the authors of the motion for a resolution. So, in short, we can say that the specific motion for a resolution tabled is probably a little too categorical, so as such we cannot support it, but we look forward to having it discussed in greater detail. The educational institutions are the best at naming their institutions themselves and with the approval of the Minister, but there is a need to look at the so-called biased situations, and that is also what we understand there is the intention in the proposal. The names must be understandable and make sense. So we're gonna see if there's gonna be an invitation to talk to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150740	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150743	I must admit that the latter was somewhat unclear to me, i.e. whether or not the Left supports this proposal. At first sight, I would think that coffee is excellent, and we are happy to have coffee with both the Minister and all sorts of others who may invite, but would it not be a good basis for the coffee meeting to adopt this resolution, which in fact simply requires the government to review the rules for naming educational institutions and to make suggestions on how to ensure that educational institutions get Danish names? Then we wanted the basis for the coffee meeting we were going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150814-2	I understand the way in which the proposers approach it, where it is done in a rather firm manner, one might say, from the point of view of moving forward. That's where we say it might be a little too firm. However, I have also clearly indicated that we clearly support the intention of the proposal to look at these skewed situations and the names that cannot be understood, one might almost say. So I also hear that there is support for trying to move on with the institutions and look at these things. So we think it's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150854	So the conclusion is that the Left supports the fact that we have to do what the resolution says, but the Left simply cannot support the proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150902	I am also saying that we need to be a little more precise about this and that the wording of the resolution is probably a little too basant and square. We think that this is the best we can do by saying that the intention of this, namely to look at these wrong situations, is excellent. And we all know that many times you start a course nicely by putting water over to a cup of coffee and having a talk over the coffee. We shall then see if there is an invitation to do so, and then we can hope to have a good talk about it and then fulfil some of the intentions that have been well discussed in the debate here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150935	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, so we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur. The rapporteur for the proposers rounds out the whole debate, so it quickly became the turn of radicals. Mrs. Katrine Robsøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121150954	Thank you. That is how it is when it is the first time you have been rapporteur on a resolution. Then you just have to know when you're going on. And thank you for the floor. Our educational institutions must have comprehensive and descriptive names. That must be the most important thing when it comes to the debate on what to call them. I have great faith in our educational institutions. Every day they work for our students and students to have better opportunities in their future, and for us to create a stronger, smarter and more skilled society. That is why I am very confident that they themselves will be able to take the decision on their own institutional name within the guidelines that are already in place today. In my view, they have no reason to give their institution a name which does not cover the training they provide. I do not in any way deny that it is extremely important that it should be understandable what courses are offered in the various institutions. Therefore, the current rules also make very good sense. Nevertheless, there will be cases where a name has to cover more than one particular education and also more than one particular place of education. Therefore, there can also be names that may not be quite as Danish-sounding and straightforward as the Danish People's Party might have wanted. The educational institutions can therefore have excellent reasons for having a main name that is not entirely Danish sounding. The names of our education must also in some cases be comprehensive and descriptive internationally, and I have great confidence that the educational institutions have the best conditions and competences to name their educational institutions, even when they have an international focus. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151208	There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151211	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and congratulations on the first rapporteur's speech in favour of a resolution. The rapporteur says that there is no reason to believe that they cannot find out out out there. I would also very much like to have that confidence, which I think is a very good principle, but at the same time we have names such as Learnmark, Zealand, Tradium, etc., and they are also described by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Children and Education as names that actually do not live up to what we are talking about here, namely that we want it to be easy to understand, that it should be explanatory and that it should be appropriate to what it should now describe. So why is it that the Radical Left will not be involved in adopting a proposal that is really just about us looking at how we can adjust the rules so that we are sure that we have a check on those names and that we use the system? There is, of course, an authorisation procedure today, so it does not really need to be so much, except that it may need to be tightened up to actually apply the requirement of approval in relation to the individual institutions. I hear it a little as if we agree that we would like to have some good and understandable names, but since we do not have them everywhere, I wonder whether we can also agree to adopt this proposal so that we can move forward and create a system where we actually get something that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151331	Well, first of all, I feel that you have a little something about the fact that if it's in English, you generally think that it's instantly incomprehensible. I don't think it's too many kids. I shall not be able to deny one hundred per cent that there may be an educational institution which would be able to accept this dialogue from the ministers to get more accurate names. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, there are some courses in which a great many different types of training have been collected and sometimes also offer them many different places. And so there may be some names that are not quite as straight as where I went to high school, namely Vestjysk Gymnasium Tarm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151420	Of course, there may be types of institutions where it is harder to come up with the right name, I agree, but you have to work on that a little extra. As far as the part-out is concerned, the rapporteur also says that it will probably not be a problem for many young people. No, I don't think so either, but that would be a problem for some, and why create that problem? We're in Denmark. Why are educational institutions not allowed to have Danish names? I don't understand. I understand that you must also be known internationally, but that does not mean that you cannot have a sub-name in English that you can then use in the correspondence you might have with the rest of the world. So I still do not quite understand why we cannot actually adopt this proposal and why we cannot ensure that we get proper names of all these institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151506	But Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is not right about the partout being in English. We're just saying that we think it's a good opportunity to have, because there are some educational institutions that just have a completely different international focus. The minister himself highlighted the example of Copenhagen Business School, which has a clear international focus in their education, and there I think it makes very good sense for them to be allowed to have that name.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151535	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Astrid Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151546	Thank you. In SF we also think that Danish education should have understandable, clear and fair names. Of course, both young people and parents must easily understand the name of the education they are going on and the name must make sense. That is why it is also positive when schools choose understandable names. For example: Københavns Professionshøjskole has kept their name and not changed it to a more English-sounding name or academised it. I think it is sensible that they have chosen to use a name that is easy to understand and fair for their education. But there are also schools where a full and fair name does not mean that it is a Danish name. There may be some degree programmes where an English-sounding name is more accurate and clarifying than a Danish name would be. And that is precisely why it is important for schools to be involved in the decision-making process. Today it is the case that the names of the country's education are decided by the boards of the individual institutions, and it must be assumed that the individual educational institution can best assess which name fits the institution. I do not believe that the institutions simply choose arbitrary In many cases the name is chosen on the basis of different assessments of what is best for the individual education and for the learner who goes on it. And why should we be better at assessing what is best for the individual education than the boards are? Moreover, it is not the case today that the educational institutions can simply choose any name. We hear that from the Minister. After all, it is the ministers who have to approve it, and I see absolutely no problem in the ministers wanting to make a little more demands on what characterises a good educational name. I agree with the Minister's assessment of the proposal, because I do not think it is we who should dictate what training should be called. There we have to recognise that the people who work with the educational institutions on a daily basis are probably better at assessing which name suits the courses best. However, I welcome the fact that the Minister for Children and Education and the Minister for Education and Research will be aware that the courses choose names that make sense and can be understood in the future. So although I think we should have clear and fair names of the Danish educational institutions, it is my starting point and SF's that the schools can best assess for themselves which names fit them, in cooperation with the ministers. And that is why I think it would be wrong for us in here from the Folketing to start interfering in naming. That is why we are not voting in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151821	There is a brief comment. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151825	Thank you. I am glad that we agree that these should be understandable and fair names. And a long way along the way, I am also quite sure that the boards around here will, of course, as far as possible choose the best names they can, and in many cases it will also go very well as with Copenhagen University College, which the rapporteur also mentions in his rapporteur's speech. And that is really nice, but at the same time we have names such as Learnmark and Tradium, which several members of the current government have said are not understandable, so there are flickers along the way. We also have a system where it needs to be approved, so why is it that the SF has something against using the system we have to ensure that we also get good, fair names of our educational institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151909-2	We certainly have no problem using the system we have and we welcome the fact that ministers who are now will put an end to the names of educational institutions such as Learnmark. And we really think that is enough, without having to deal with this in detail more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151928	It can be said that what we are proposing with this motion for a resolution is, in fact, not so much retailing anymore. It is that we are asking the government to look at the rules so that we can have a talk about how we can ensure that the very names that we agree have slipped through and which should not have slipped through are stopped some other time. So why can we not support this resolution? It does exactly what we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121151954	One of the things that also lies in the motion for a resolution is that the educational institutions should have Danish names, and we also agree with what many others have also said from up here that sometimes it can be an advantage that the institution has an English-sounding name in some places. And that is among other things. one of the reasons why we cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152018	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Carøe. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152032	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. In the preparations for this debate on this resolution, I thought of my own schooling at such a Danish school, whose name nevertheless gave rise to some complications. Because I went to a school in West Jutland called Kibæk School, and there were many who thought it was a school that lay in Canada. So sometimes Danish names can also present certain challenges. But personal anecdotes aside: I will repeat what has been said several times from this platform. In Enhedslisten we do not think that it should be the Danish Parliament's job to determine the names of the educational institutions, even if it should be Danish names. As such, we believe that this task lies very well with the educational institutions themselves. We think so today, and we thought so, the last time the Danish People's Party made this proposal in 2018. Like so many others, I actually recognise the need for correct and precise names, and I can also give examples, like many previous speakers, where I personally think it might be a little clearer what it really is for an educational institution. First of all, however, I believe that it must be up to the educational institutions themselves to assess which name is the most rightful one, even if they consider that it is true, for example. must be a name in English, as Copenhagen Business School has chosen it. I am convinced, and we are in the Enhedslisten, that the educational institutions themselves are far better than the Folketing to decide what to call them. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152224	There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. And it looks as if the next rapporteur is from the alternative. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152242	Thank you. I can make this speech ultracard. I could start by saying that we do not support the proposal, and if I am going to put a few words on it then I can say that it is for reasons of principle that we cannot support the proposal. We want to set our educational institutions free, even more free than they are today, and we do not want to interfere in whatever name they have. Is it possible, as a private person, politician or party, to have different views as to whether an educational institution has an intelligible title, that is, name, or not, as you can read? Depends on your own taste. I am now looking down at the rapporteur, who has raised this debate, and hope that the rapporteur will listen to me. I can see that the rapporteur is now back in the Chamber. I just want to say once again that if it has not been clear that we cannot support the proposal, and that is for reasons of principle. As I have said, we think that the educational institutions should decide for themselves what to call them. And then you can have personal preferences and reservations about individual titles, but it is, from our point of view, up to the individual institution; it is their right to decide it. Personally, I myself went to an educational institution called Peter Sabroe Seminariet. And I do not know whether the rapporteur can read from that name what kind of seminary it was. At that time, that name had been chosen because there was a Social Democratic politician who seemed really to stand up for social conditions and fought for the rights of children and young people and for the right to a good life. And so the seminary in question gave itself the name Peter Sabroe Seminary. Today it's called something else, but it wasn't difficult for me as a student to read that this was a social pedagogy seminary, and I was really happy that it was called Peter Sabroe Seminary. That is why I feel that it is a good thing that our educational institutions have the freedom that they have to call themselves what they want. So does it sometimes happen to slip away? Yes, there is. But who would be taste judges to that? If I were really to take the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party's proposals seriously, I would like to see what criteria would be used to determine which names were approved and were found worthy. The rapporteur says that these should be understandable and fair names and that they should be good Danish names. And there I just feel like, who's gonna decide? In fact, I would like to hear the criteria for determining what characterises an understandable and fair Danish education name. I think that would trigger a fairly interesting discussion. As I said, we think that the institutions themselves should have the opportunity to decide what to call them. And if they pick a stupid name, I don't think there's a lot of people looking there. It'll find its rent. And then I would say, and it has been said with a smile, that I know the rapporteur from all sorts of other good contexts, and I have always seen the rapporteur as a true gentleman. Can I say "gentleman"? Or should I say "boyman"? Well, the language is constantly evolving and the language is constantly under negotiation. And it is, of course, good to have this debate, but I believe in the ability of the institutions themselves to find the right name for the education they contain.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152635	That makes a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152638	Thanks for the nice words. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to point out that I was not out of the Chamber. I have been sitting here all along, and I have also tried to listen. As for the Peter Sabroe Seminary, I can sort out that name, and I think it has been an excellent name. It is not certain that it is more, and I am in favour of it, because the language is evolving and names can also develop over time. I still think, however, that a commercial school should be called a commercial school, and a high school should be called a high school. At least that is what I have a picture of the vast majority of the Danish population will have easily understood. And it is crucial to me for an educational institution in Denmark that it is understandable to the Danes what it is for an institution and what is going on at that institution. So that's really what I want to do with these names. After all, we have procedures today, because names need to be approved, and then we just say that it might be that we should be a little sharper when it comes to using the systems we already have. It's not like we're thinking about building on so much. It may well be that a small addition should be made to the guidelines to the Minister with regard to the approvals. But that is actually the talk we would like to have, namely that we should consider whether it may be that the names are not descriptive of the institution in question and are not understandable to the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152749	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152750	I think I understand the intention of the authors of the motion for a resolution. But already here some fairly broad concepts are used when you say that the Danes understand and then I look up at the young people who sit up in the audience in here, and I think they are fairly well aware of what Copenhagen Business School stands for, even though it is not called Copenhagen Business School. You take everyone's income and talk about what the Danes understand. I think I am almost older than the rapporteur, and I believe that older generations understand something, and young generations understand something else, and education institutions must therefore communicate with our young people, so I have complete respect for the fact that our educational institutions choose their own name.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152848	At the same time, I would say that yes, you have to communicate with young people, of course you have to, because the educational institutions are aimed at young people, but it must also be the young people all over the country. And I don't think that a lot of young people in the area I come from have any idea what CBS is. They probably know what a business school is, and their parents certainly do. But we shouldn't be doing this to a small elite; we should like to have some concepts and some terms and some names that are understandable for what I would call the general population, also those who live on Funen, and those who live in Jutland. And I don't think these fancy English names actually say so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152930	Now I was born in Jutland, it has to be said, and I am very fond of my Jutland ancestors, even though I live in Copenhagen today. I believe that what determines whether an institution gets good applicants is whether they have a good reputation or not what kind of name they have. And rumors go fast among young people today, so young people know what school is good and what school is not good or what education is good and what education is not good. So I believe they'll find out, and they'll find out, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121152959	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153008	Thank you. New citizens understand the intention of the motion for a resolution that has been tabled, and we also sympathise with it. That is why, as a starting point, we support the part of the motion for a resolution which requires the Minister to review the rules. There are several educational institutions, for example: the former teacher and educator seminars, which today are called university college and use clever imperceptible names. But if you take an example such as CBS, it is an example of an educational institution for an international education, and it would be out of place to change it and damage the brand that they have built up. The rules today are decided at the country's educational institutions by the boards of the institutions, and once the board has adopted a name, either the Ministry of Children and Education or the Ministry of Education and Research must approve the institution name. In this area, ministries are primarily assessing whether the proposed names are misleading or whether there is a risk of confusion with other educational institutions or private firms. So it can be said that the area is already regulated and supervised, and perhaps a tightening up of the current rules could be enough. So new citizens support the intention of the proposal, and we support the government's obligation to review the rules and see if there is anything that can be done, but we nevertheless think that the proposal is too drastic when it says that it must be ensured that educational institutions are given Danish main names. We do not think it should be decided in advance that there can be no educational institutions which can also have non-Danish main names, but we certainly support the intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153211	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153212	Thank you for your support. I also understand that, if it were not there with Danish main names, it would be possible to support the proposal. Our intention is not, of course, that you cannot also have an international name that applies to the outside world, but as a Danish educational institution you apply to us to look primarily at Danish students, and that is why, of course, we in the Danish People's Party think you should have a Danish name that says in Danish what you really are doing and doing. But I have to understand New Citizens cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153253	We agree that it makes sense that there is a Danish main name and that there may also be a foreign name that you then use externally, but we just do not think that we can say that there should be no examples where, for example, there are. may be an English main name such as CBS. What is stated in the motion for a resolution is that it must be ensured that all institutions have a Danish main name.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153320	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153330	Thank you. Foreign names of Danish institutions are often snobbish, they can be silly, they can pander to the spirit of the time • University College, Aarhus Tech. But this is not just a public sector issue. I once asked a Danish-speaking Italian if there were any conceivable circumstances in which it might be correct to say'vero moda' and the answer was 'no'. It's just snobbery for something that sounds Italian it's not Italian. And you should not simply pander to the English, even though it may be tempting. I would have had great sympathy with Mrs Katrine Robsøe if Vestjysk Gymnasium in Tarm had been renamed Intestin. It's almost unbearable to think that the good city should have that name. It sounds like the Christmas calendar, and it's silly as the Christmas calendar, not least when it's names in bad English. When the situation was that many years ago I had been involved in inventing a segmenting tool, I chose for myself that it should not have an English name, but should be called Minerva, that is, a Latin name instead of an English one, in order to get rid of this snobbery in relation to the English one. But the question is, of course, how much regulation needs to be made, and I think that New Citizens have some good points to make. We need to regulate laxly, even if the intention is really good, and is it our task as a legislative body to bring more laws and rules into the world? I am following the update on Peter Bjerre Mortensen's book "The State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. We're not gonna make it worse. So the question is whether it is not better with mockery, ridicule and ridicule than with regulation. That's what I'm talking about. even stands and does right now, and it may have some effect. I also think that it might be possible to equip the Ministry and the Board of Directors with the authority to state as a valid justification a name, that it is stupid in general, so that one can simply use it as a justification: this name is generally stupid and then an administrative decision has been taken. Easy and convenient solution, which one could at least consider. So there's a healthy scepticism about snobbery and silliness and bad English and the slipper of the spirit of time put into this proposal. However, we are sorry that this is becoming too restrictive, so the intention is good, but we believe in other forms of self-righteousness. Then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they may, without wishing to sign every word I have said, agree with the conclusion; they do not support either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153708	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153711	I agree with the rapporteur that mockery and mockery can push things into the world and that the debate itself can also do something. I wonder why the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, because it is not a question of making more rules. It's just about looking at the rules that are and then making an adjustment. It may well be that you have to write in, that the Minister can use the explanatory statement when rejecting a name: this is ridiculous! That could be an excellent thing. We could take that into the coffee talk that I think we're gonna have. In particular, we could take it into account the assessment of the rules that this proposal suggests for the government to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153759	Constructive suggestions are always good, and with a constructive attitude, I have also learned in the time I have been sitting in the Folketing, you can actually come quite a long way. The seriousness of this is, of course, how far we should go in relation to Danish. If you have been to Iceland and seen the language policy that the Icelandic state has, it is just the case that it is a very harsh Icelandisation of everything that you work with, and there are many Icelanders who say that it is actually too restrictive. So I just think that we should be careful not to be too restrictive in relation to English. There is some irony in the fact that the rock orchestra, which has done most to sing rock in Danish, has an English name. That's how complicated things are.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153849	The world is quite complicated. I agree that we should not go all the way to Iceland, where we come up with Danish words for everything, but what we are talking about today are Danish educational institutions located in Denmark, which are aimed at Danish young people and adults who have to take an education. Why should they not, as a starting point, just have a Danish name? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153911	It's out to the decimals that we don't agree. I think it will be too tough regulation, but I hope for some form of self-justice in civil society and the beneficial effect of mockery, ridicule and ridicule, as in many of the examples presented by the Danish People's Party, is indeed present and well deserved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153933	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121153943	Thank you, and thank you for a good debate. It is not because there are so many people in the Chamber anymore, but perhaps some people out there are listening. I think it has been good to have the discussion. The reason for it was, of course, that we made this proposal two years ago, when it was poured down the board, and then we had an opening of the Danish Parliament, where the Prime Minister, as most people know, said: why have we stopped calling things what they are? It's a completely unnecessary alienation. Following on from this, the Minister for Children and Education in the newspaper Denmark has said that all these strange names will be equally legal, and as the Minister is then asked to refer to the text of the resolution that we have here, the Minister says: When I hear it now, I think that the problem with that is that it does not go far enough. Because it is not just a question of names being Danish, for me it is also a question of decoding what kind of educational institution it is. I fully agree with that, and I would therefore very much like to offer here to tighten up the proposal if we can write in that it must also be possible to decode what kind of educational institution it is. I wouldn't have done that in the first place, but we'd be happy to write it in if that's what it takes to get the government to back this proposal and to implement it. On the basis of what both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Children and Education had expected today, I had expected that the Minister for Research and Education would come up here, just as Mette Frederiksen did a few years ago in connection with a proposal which was also from me and which was about student driving to groups other than students, where she went to the platform and said: we support. I had a little hope of that today. That didn't happen, and then we'll have to take it another time. But I think the discussion has been very good, and I am glad that there is broad recognition that, if I may say so, we need to have a little more control over these names. At least I hear that clearly from the government, and I also hear an invitation to drink some coffee at a time when we can then find out how we are doing this. The Left would like to participate, and I think there are more parties, so that there could be such a small coffee club about this, where we can talk about how we ensure that the names are really as right as they should be. So with that, I would just like to say thank you for the debate, and I am looking forward to following how the ministers, as both of them have promised, keep a close eye on these names in the future, and that pressure is actually being put on them, because I also hear an agreement that some of the names that exist today are not as self-explanatory and as good as they should be, so that you review it out there and ask: can we not come up with a better name here? I will, of course, follow that and I will also push for it to actually happen. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121154256	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121154312	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 26 November 2019. We're just gonna wait a few minutes until everybody's in place. It seems that everyone has got a seat a little closer to the platform so that we can start the question debate. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr von der Vring. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, who is to justify the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121154601	Thank you. We have asked for this query debate from DF, because we are concerned about the Danish language and the way it is used, because we are concerned that one is on the way to allowing restrictions in the language that one does not choose for oneself, but which is imposed on one and controlled by others. The specific reason for the question was two news stories, one from the University of Copenhagen Institute for Arts and Culture, where the head of department has sent out an e-mail and among other things. encourages to avoid using sexy terms such as ladies' and girls' or boys' and boys' and instead use gender-neutral terms. The second example is Microsoft, which in a new version of the word processing program will propose corrections to the Danes if they do not use inclusive words, for example. no to the police officer, the chairman and the opinion, where it should be the police officer, the pre-person or the person with the dementia. This may seem insignificant, and we should also take account of it, but should there not be a limit? Can't we agree to stand firm that we don't want to be dictated what we have to say? That is why we ask the government to explain how it will avoid these new language approaches becoming a slippery path, and how the government will ensure linguistic pluralism and freedom of research and freedom of expression in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121154727	Thank you. And then it is the Minister of Education and Research for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121154735	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. After all, it is a debate that is currently running high pressure on everything from winter balls to sex-neutral rooms at afterschools and makes Danish People's Party's male members wear women's clothes. It should therefore be clear that this is a complex and sometimes a little abstract subject, and that is why I should like to start by spending some time on the very specific examples referred to in the question debate with the University of Copenhagen and Microsoft. I assume that the first example with the University of Copenhagen is that the head of department and the head of study at the Department of Arts and Culture sent out an email to the employees in connection with the start of studies. The e-mail said, among other things:: Dear all teachers at the IKK. Now the semester and the lessons begin. Fortunately, we have a great diversity of students, including binary and non-binary trans students, and this is new to many of us. To ensure their inclusion, I would like to convey a few advices to the teachers. The Mailen then gives three advices. One is to refrain from calling on students with ladies and girls or boys and boys, as the rapporteur has already explained. This was the advice that gave some media the opportunity to announce that it was now completely forbidden to say boys and girls at the University of Copenhagen. One of the other advices is that if you are in doubt about a person's gender, you can mention them with their name instead of saying he or she. The second example mentioned in the question is about Microsoft. I assume that we are thinking here of the extension of Microsoft Word, which was given a lot of media coverage in September. As I understand the media talk, it's all about Microsoft offering a feature in Word that can mark certain words with a blue line. Word can then suggest a more inclusive alternative, for example. police officer instead of policeman or foreperson instead of president. However, I also understand that a spokesperson for Microsoft in Denmark has explained to DR that it is uncertain whether the function will even come to the Danish version of Word. It is certain, however, that the function, if it comes, will be optional. I fully agree with the questioners that it is important that we pay attention to how a new technology affects Danish society and the Danish language in good and evil. Technology is not just a neutral solution to a specific problem. Technology affects us as people and affects our society and sometimes also our language. It is therefore important to pay attention to the ethical, social and cultural aspects of new technology. I must say, however, that precisely the specific example of the word function I think is harmless. It's a voluntary function you can turn on and off. And I don't know if I would use it myself, but I don't see a problem in the fact that the function exists and that others choose either to use it or not. The example of the e-mail at the University of Copenhagen shows that we have not finished discussing how universities can show consideration for minorities or take action against abuses and violations without compromising academic freedom. In relation to the specific example, I think it is fundamentally positive when you take stock of your students and make an effort to make them all feel welcome and as part of a strong study environment. I also think it is worth noting that this is a relatively vulnerable group. According to the recently published SEXUS study, transsexuals and non-binarians have experienced much more than other groups in society bullying, harassment and physical abuse because of their sexuality; they feel much more lonely; between 60% and 60%. 78% and 78%. of transgenders and non-binary persons have had suicidal thoughts; and between 17 per cent and 17 per cent. and 25%. attempted suicide directly. I do not believe that it is my or the Danish Parliament's job to prevent the individual place of education from making an extra effort to include these students if they experience that need at the place of education. However, that does not detract from the fact that freedom of expression and freedom of research are fundamental to our society, not least for our universities, and those rights as such already enjoy extensive and indisputable protection in the Constitution and the University Act respectively. That is a good thing, and it is something that we must guard together. This is among other things. That is why I do not think we need to regulate how they talk to each other at the University of Copenhagen. There is something paradoxical in the idea that we in the Folketing should regulate ourselves into linguistic pluralism in the institutions. It is the universities themselves that have the competence and the best conditions for having an open debate on these issues and, on that basis, constantly set the framework for how to talk to, about and with each other. It is precisely in the universities that there must be a free exchange of views. It's a place where opinions should be It doesn't mean, on the other hand, that management, employees and students can't deal well with how to talk to each other and how to deal with new groups of students such as students. Non-binary students. The discussion on how we can show new consideration for others without at the same time sacrificing our values or traditions has in many ways been at the heart of the ongoing debate on the culture of violation. It is a debate that we have had on the basis of everything from sombreroer and morning songs to guidelines for insulting behaviour at the University of Copenhagen, and I think we should be very careful not to muffle it all together. When, in 2018, the University of Copenhagen published its guidelines for dealing with offensive behaviour, they were met by extensive criticism, among others. to create uncertainty about academic freedom at the university. Against this background, the university has updated the guidelines. They now state, so no one can be in doubt, that academic freedom is the condition and the guiding concept of the university's activities. It says, among other things, that in research and teaching, all questions must be asked and there must be freedom to seek answers to them. I very much agree with that. And I also believe that this is a good basic rule outside universities, because here too all questions must be able to be asked and there must be freedom to seek answers to them. We have, among other things. We need to tackle, as a society, the changes we see in, for example. technology, language and identity. It is quite natural that when society and language change, there should be a debate, and it is good that we should have these things debated. But it is also a difficult discussion and one can easily be misunderstood. I would therefore like to conclude the same place as the so discussed e-mail to the staff of the Department of Arts and Culture at the University of Copenhagen, who says, and I quote: These problems are new and foreign to many of us, so it is important that we think about and listen to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121155500	Thank you, Minister. At least someone has asked for that, and that's Mr. Knox. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121155515	Thank you. I would barely like to thank you for your answer, because I did not actually hear much about what the Minister and the government are going to do about these challenges. We've had the debate. We had it in the spring about insulting behaviour in one way or another, and it is absolutely true that this debate has given rise to thinking and adjusting some things at the University of Copenhagen. That's really good. But we can then look at a tech giant, and it may well be that the minister thinks that what they bring is harmless. To think that an American company must enter and be able to define what it would recommend the Danes to write when they write in word processing is not quite so harmless, in my view at least. Because it will inevitably affect the way we write when we are affected by it all the time. And who's gonna decide? Should it be somebody in some head office somewhere in the world who thinks that we should not use that word now, or should we not use that word? So I would like to hear the Minister say clearly what the government will do in relation to, for example. Microsoft and the challenge it will give us in relation to the Danish language.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121155623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121155625	Thank you. I do not believe that technology and its enormous power over our everyday lives and our way of being people with each other are harmless, by no means. In fact, I think that this is a debate that we take all too easily. By harmless means, I mean the few concrete examples that have been advanced about what Microsoft was planning to propose as alternatives in a voluntary scheme. And the little thing that potentially doesn't even come to Denmark, I considered harmless. Whether you say policeman or police officer it is just before I say that you have to be careful about these things, but that in some of the specific cases I myself may well need to be reminded of what it really is, I signal with my language, and not necessarily by a techgigant like Microsoft. But why actually signal that a cop has to be a man? There's something in this language we need to reflect on. It's not the same as Microsoft having to decide it. And in general, I believe that we need to have a fundamental discussion about how technology affects us as people in our everyday lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121155726	Thank you. No one else has asked for a brief comment, so we are now going to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121155747	I still wonder what the Minister is really going to do. However, as both the Minister's speech and the Minister's reply showed, this is a tendency in time. And we don't think it's so harmless. It may be that the individual small things are, but it is the first step in what we are afraid can be a slippery slope. That is why we must take it seriously. We had examples in the spring. We had the story with the singing of the Danish song is a young, blonde girl. Shall we sing it in here? How many young, blonde girls are there? Will everyone be offended if we did? We had a researcher who gave a lecture with results that were divided into women and men. Both gave rise at that time to some feeling offended, not because something said directly or in relation to them, but just because they were in the room and heard what was being sung or heard what was being read. And it was seriously discussed in many places whether one should not sing • The Danish song is a young, blonde girl • or whether one could lecture about research results broken down by the biological sex. Now I say so biological gender, because if I just say gender, I know there are some who think that on the other side of a hundred genders. I read that one day on the BBC, and it was an answer to some child who had asked that question. I don't really have to comment on that, because there I have such a scientific brain I may find that a little difficult to relate to. I think there are two biological genders, and that is the starting point. However, the fact that linguistic pluralism, linguistic diversity and linguistic diversity are being reduced gives me some worrying associations. Those are some things we've seen before in history. Then I shall not mention so much, but one could mention the Soviet Union. Within the literary world, George Orwell's timeless, thought - provoking book, in which the author describes a totalitarian regime in which the language has turned and the rulers define the language. In this way they use the language to kid and suppress freedom of thought, scientific freedom and freedom of expression. And that is the concept, namely new languages, which we use as a term in the text of the question, that is where it comes from. With their real abuse of language, the regime is instrumentalising the language into a mind control and a lever to gain control of the public's consciousness. In this way one can standardize thinking and control the public to think in a certain way, while limiting their linguistic and thoughtful creativity. It's dangerous. It is a threat to our democracy where people must be allowed to unfold under responsibility. It's a totalitarian human sight. And that gives Microsoft's actions an association to the contours that we are currently seeing unfolding in China. It is a state that slowly, but surely more and more, uses technology to control the population and to standardise their thinking. You can ask yourself the question: What's next for Microsoft? And why should a large global company decide how to use the language? It may be that the examples we have heard now seem harmless, and I can think that myself, but what is next? What is the next thing that comes into the systems and that we are perhaps barely aware of? Many people will probably say that it is not so bad, that it is just good intentions and a little help and guidance and that it can do no harm. It may seem trivial, but strange that the University of Copenhagen as a recognised research institution should spend resources on such things instead of providing world-class research that they are otherwise so good at. It is easy to say that it cannot be decisive whether we say policeman or police officer, whether we say president or foreperson, whether we refer to people like him or she or only use their names. Nor is it essential if it is just me or you who decides which words we use and how we use them. But it will be a problem if it is the management of educational institutions and other organisations or the multinational company that tells us what we can and must write. Because what's next? Should we rename the little mermaid for the little mermaid? Developments are already under way. We must reject it, and I hope we can agree on that here today. Then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens, I have the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament invites the government to consider steps to ensure the linguistic pluralism of the Danish language and the freedom of research and freedom of expression and to avoid these actions for new languages, which the University of Copenhagen Institute of Arts and Culture and Microsoft are examples of, becoming a slippery path. • V 18).
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160243	Thank you. A proposal for adoption has been received. There is also a request for a brief comment. It's from Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160303	I would simply like to hear something from the rapporteur. It is said that one is on the way in a gliding towards a totalitarian view of people whose companies and educational institutions impose something or make wishes for language. But does the rapporteur not think that it would basically be more totalitarian if it were the Folketing or the government that would have to come in and control such things?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160334	Well, I don't think they can make rules about what to say or what not to say. What we have to do from in here is put up with the guard against others doing it. I do not have the solution, but it is actually going against, for example. Microsoft and say that we don't want you to come and define how we can write. Don't come and tell us what's right and what's wrong. They should not impose any standards on us. It is quite fine if you have in a word processing a right-writing dictionary that you can look up with. Well, in this country, we've defined what the legend looks like right now. It is different today than it was 100 years ago, but we have it and we know how it is. They can put that in. But they should not come and put in anything that now I should use words other than those I want to use, or those I think you should use, and certainly not on the part of a company that has its head office far out in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160426	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160427	But is the rapporteur aware of any examples in which companies in this way force people to use a specific word, or Danish educational institutions for that matter? As I know, and as the Minister also pointed out in his speech, this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160444	No, but I can see that the debate that was about insulting behaviour in the spring has actually led to the University of Copenhagen adjusting its guidelines based on a logic that in fact there were some things that were a little slipping the wrong way. I therefore believe that the debate is extremely important. I think we can well say here today that the examples on which we base this are harmless and small and that no one is forcing us to do anything at first. But I would just like us to get to grips with the debate and ensure in advance that we do not get out of a slippery path, so that at some point we find ourselves in a situation where we cannot say what we want; where we cannot stand up and use the words that we think are right, so that I am the one who defines how I speak with consideration to people, and not anyone else who defines what I must say and what I must not say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160532	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121160545	Thank you for the floor. Let me just first sign that the Danish People's Party is raising this debate. The language is evolving all the time, and it is very much because we have a conversation about it. In my view, these two examples, which are like the cause of the question, are actually quite different in character. Of course, they have in common that they are about how we talk to each other and talk about each other. The example of Microsoft, if we are to start with that, I think that basically raises a discussion about how technology affects us, and it is certainly a relevant discussion that goes far beyond the specific discussion that we have today. With regard to the specific case of a function of a word action programme which can be rejected, I would like to put myself in the slippage of the Minister's words and say that it is relatively safe. It may even help those who want to use a more inclusive language. I have an ambition to do that in general. But that does not change the fundamental issue raised by the matter, which I would like to acknowledge, namely the impact of technology on our language and, therefore, on our community at all. This is probably a debate that is asking more questions than it is giving answers. That is why it is also a debate that I think it is important that we continue to have with each other. For right now we place a great deal of power over our relations and communities and also over our language with global tech giants, who are very far away from Danish culture and Danish legislation. And what if this function couldn't be turned off? Or what if it had been the other way around? As the public conversation and our private relations take place to a greater extent through technology and on technological and global platforms, it also challenges in one sense or another our ability as a society and community and as a culture itself to define the framework for our conversation. And I think that debate is important that we have. The second example from the University of Copenhagen, where teachers get good advice on how to avoid offending students, or how they can help to accommodate students feeling embraced by teachers' language, seems to me to be a completely different discussion. Basically, I find it a little difficult to be opposed to good advice, which is based on a desire for young people to feel included in their association with their fellow students. In this particular case, there is, of course, a very vulnerable group of young people to whom special attention is to be paid. And we have all seen the statistics on how many psychologically vulnerable there are among our young people and among our students. Therefore, I would really like to acknowledge that the University of Copenhagen is trying to take responsibility for how students can feel more included Does this mean that, in general, we are now about to pull the gender out of our language? I do not think there is any reason for that, but I do not think it is our job here at Christiansborg to decide it either. I would much rather leave it up to the local communities, whether it is at the University of Copenhagen, in the football club or in a nursing home, to find out what rules should apply to their communities and their association, including how to talk to each other and appeal to each other, and perhaps especially at a university where there should be a freedom to experiment and test new forms, whether it is about the role of the sexes in our language or chemical experiments in a laboratory. In fact, I would like to be particularly sceptical about the intervention and interference of Christiansborg. So, in order to safeguard freedom of expression, I believe in principle that we, as politicians, cannot do so much more than what the Danish People's Party is doing right now, namely to raise the debate and ensure that we have a discussion about the development of the language. Against this background, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the Alternative and Liberal Alliance, I would like to make the following comments: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament welcomes the discussion on how new technologies and new views on gender and identity affect and develop the Danish language. It is important to continuously discuss and be aware of how technology affects society and how new forms of indictment change the language. The Danish Parliament is concerned with safeguarding freedom of expression and research freedom at universities and notes that both freedom of expression and freedom of research are protected by applicable legislation. The Folketing also notes that it would not be appropriate for the Folketing to regulate forms of indictment, etc. at the universities. It will be able to counteract the desired linguistic pluralism, freedom of expression and research. Universities have the competence and the best conditions for setting the framework for how employees and students talk to, about and with each other through open debate. Furthermore, the Folketing considers that there is no need for further regulation of private actors in the current case. Against this background, the Folketing urges the government to continue to pay attention to the area. • V 19). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161032	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another proposal for adoption has been put forward which will be included in the negotiations. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161042	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur says'relatively safe'. And I mentioned this before, so I do not really disagree with the fact that it can be seen as such right now. But the question is, if Microsoft puts something in based on some logic that one should be considerate or that there should be no offensive words, then it is from a cultural background • wherever they may sit when they define it. So it can be said that it is accepting and I hear a little bit the rapporteur doing private companies doing this kind of thing. Then you can say that you can choose it on or off, but just the fact that it is there does send some signals. In other words, they do not do so without reason, and if the rapporteur then chooses to use it, then suddenly I might hear some other words in a rapporteur's speech than I would otherwise have heard. And whose words is that? Is it Microsoft who speaks here in Parliament? Then I think we have a problem. So can I not get the rapporteur to back me up on the fact that we have to do something, including with regard to the tech giants we are surrounded by in every way? It's not just Microsoft, it'll be all the other places where we communicate inside.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161158	I think there is really good reason to be aware of how technology and great tech giants not only affect our language, but our culture, our community, our democracy. I really think there is reason to be concerned about that. So I fully acknowledge that. However, I do not believe that this is exactly the example the rapporteur is setting here, which is then the main problem, namely that we may begin to speak in a language in which we do not give everything a gender in advance. And in fact, I would think it was good if Word reminded me to call it a police officer and not a policeman. This could be an excellent function, which I would perhaps even use from time to time myself. I do not think that we are striking down on the essentials of the challenge of our culture and language by the tech giants. In fact, I think it is in other areas, but I think there is reason to pay attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161252	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161254	Well, where does it end up? Google has accepted in China in the past that you should go in and say: there are a whole lot of things you can't see and you can't do. Then they shut it off and, of course, they can do so in their system. In the same way, you can imagine that someone had to control what we should see and what we should not see. We know that today on many of these platforms. So it's not really about the specific word "whether to write a policeman or a police officer." I think that is quite harmless as well, and if the rapporteur wants to be helped to do so, then peace be with it. But what's next? And what kind of thinking is that? In other words, what is thoughtful language if one were finally to go into it? And who will define what it is in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161344	This is one of the things we need to define jointly and in our local communities. Because it is not certain that an inclusive and considerate language is the same here in the Assembly Hall as it is at the University of Copenhagen as it is at the football club. And there I actually have basic confidence that our local communities can construct for themselves what the rules should be for their association. But I think the Chinese example is interesting. Because what is the horror scenario is precisely a state that wants to regulate so close to the behaviour of its citizens. And that is a bit of the slippery path I think the rapporteur is actually opening up to, in order to manage how foreign companies can be used by consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161424	The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161427	However, what is at stake has not yet been mentioned by the rapporteur, and that is where we must turn to Canada. For what is at stake is that in the best sense in Canada tough laws have been introduced against hatepeech. And it is so after Canadian legislation that there is also a concept of unindented hatepeech. And this hatepeech can then also include unintentional violations of people who have a non-binarian sex. And that is why we have opened up the door so that people can really be offended, unintentionally. Because it can be a little difficult to spot people's non-binary sex, where the binary immediately can be easier to determine. And there we have been some of the way in Denmark, because the University of Copenhagen was on its way down the road called unintentional violations. They were so guided by better thoughts, and that's really good. But the combination of hatepeechlove and identity policy is potentially a rather explosive combination, and we have heard nothing about it. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161546	Thank you. That's a big question. The identity policy has made its entry in many ways in the Danish debate and also here at Christiansborg. Basically, I do not believe that this is what is essential to the ordinary Dane, I would have almost said what the identity policy raises from discussions. But I recognise that in relation to the discussions it has raised, for example. on those who do not identify themselves as a man or a woman and who have felt overlooked and have felt neglected I really think they feel the space of the fact that there is now a debate on how to have a language of which they are also part. I think that is actually a good thing. But I'm not out at all on any slippery slope where we're approaching Canadian states or anything. And I also believe that we can maintain gender well in our language as we do today. But I just don't want to crack down on institutions that actually do what they can, based on best intentions, to accommodate their students. And I think that is the case with the University of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161656	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161657	However, these are some elements which in themselves are plausible and which many nice and liberal people like all of us who are present here think are also reasonable. In isolation, there is nothing to say about being sceptical about hatepeech, and there is nothing to say in isolation about being sceptical about violations, and there is nothing to say in isolation about wanting to avoid offending people. The point is that these relatively harmless things can be connected to something that is very, very explosive, just like if you have the right shopping list, you can get things in Matas that can be combined and explode. You just need to know what to buy and how to mix it up. So it's this unintentional mix of very reasonable things that we need to get hold of. For the University of Copenhagen has been going down that road.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161744	I think that is an excellent point. And where does the exact limit go? I think that's hard for us in here to be the ones who define. And that's why I really want to keep insisting that this conversation has to move out and be as close to the local community as possible. Because I really believe that some of the great principles and the conflict will then be pulled out of it. At the University of Copenhagen as well as everywhere else, it must be a conversation between the students and the teachers and university management: What should the framework be for our community here? How are we supposed to be together? How are we gonna talk to each other? That's how I think we get the strongest communities where as many as possible are included. Because when you are faced with the individual who feels out of the way we are talking today, everyone wants to include him.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161830	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121161843	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising an important and relevant debate on new languages. As is so often the case with proposals from the Danish People's Party, I think it shows a great love for the language and what we should be careful of, and for everything we have inherited as Danes, and I would like to sign for that. So there's this whole thing about just using the concept of new language, which I'm having a little trouble with, because it's a strange new word. It came into the language of 1948, when George Orwell wrote "1984". It was the year of publication 1948, and he then turned the figures, and it was then 1984 and he describes a language that is screwed up so that it can be used politically, and it was not something that he so came up with out of thin air. Because he had seen in Nazi times that the Nazi side was working very actively with language as a political tool to define other people and set a certain political agenda, and I think it is important that we keep our eye on that here. Because, on the one hand, there is a debate hidden in what we are talking about, which is about how we fit in the way we talk to each other, and whether it is always appropriate to call a President if you can use the word foreman or foreperson etc. instead. I think that must be up to that individual. But there is another debate hidden in it, and I think we are also supposed to get hold of it here today, and Henrik Dahl is also talking about it, which is so often with a keen eye on where the problem lies buried, that there is a political agenda hidden in this which can affect freedom of research and which smuggles identity policy into a major debate in a way that will allow us here today to have a Passiar about it, where we do not really attach ourselves to anything, but where it can be different seriously down the trail, if we challenge free research, and if we get a weird neomarxism into debates through the language. For one is of course that you can get a privately developed writing program like Word, where there is a function that you can turn on and off, but what if you can't turn it on and off? What if you can't choose for yourself whether you can deliver a Master's thesis in the Danish you choose, or you have to write it in a Danish that isn't pretty, because there could be a censor and be terribly offended by everything that is going on here, etc., and the real agenda is that in the language there is the identity policy agenda that is stored some structural and oppressive instruments of rule mentality that we have to combat? If we get down that trail, we're going to take these conversations many times again in this forum, because the agenda that is there is much worse and much more serious than the one that is hidden in the other debate. Having said all that, however, we in the Left support the proposal for adoption that we read before by the Socialist rapporteur and simply remind you that there is a slippery slope here, which we must be very aware of, and that, if we go too far down it, which includes political control of others with the language, we will end up in a bad place, especially if we do so with a blind faith that we do so in order to protect some minorities. For then we will simply miss the major debate that is hidden in this. With those words, I would like to acknowledge the speaking time and say that, of course, we support the proposal for adoption that we have been involved in formulating ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162239	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162243	Thank you. There is, of course, a lot of what the rapporteur is talking about, I can agree with it, but I think that there is perhaps some concern, but not one that is as present as I think it should be. And I don't think that distance to new language is exactly right. I mean, I have no idea or any hope that from here we will start to manage things, but when a company like Microsoft does something, what do we know about what political agenda these are, what they really intend to do with what they are doing? It is true that right now things can be fought on and off, but can they do so in a few moments, or does it sneak in in different ways? Therefore, I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree that we have to • I do not have the solution to how we do it • taking some action in relation to companies such as Microsoft, in relation to their policy on how they will influence what we are doing in their direction, rather than that it is in our direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162358	I am not aware that Microsoft has a political agenda, but I know and imagine that Microsoft reflects the great market they have in the United States and in the Anglo-Saxon world, where this debate is completely destroying American university environments. I am sure that Microsoft is just following the market and making a product that they think you would like to use in those circles, and then you are blind that there is a political agenda hidden in those debates in American universities. If you end up where you can't turn this on and off, and if we don't bring Microsoft's attention to the fact that we want to be able to turn it off, then we're in a completely different place than we are today, and I completely agree with Mr. Jens Kristian Thulesen Dahl i.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162447	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162449	There is something very worrying about it. So, I think it is absolutely right that Microsoft is a company that wants to sell their products and whether, under it, they have other political agendas, I should not be able to say either, but just that they do, and if they look at American society and say: the standards, values and rules that exist in that society, are they the ones we want to get down on our heads? And when is China so big a market that it is also beginning to be their standards that are being put into the systems we get? So how are we supposed to protect ourselves from it? And if we don't get to it now, when are we gonna do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162530	Well, I think it is now that we have to deal with it and, by the way, the United States is also doing so. I know that the University of Chicago has adopted a charter on how to do free research and where attention is paid to the politicisation which Mr. Jens Kristian Thulesen Dahl is aware of also sneaking into Denmark, that is to say to fight it, so that free research is free research. It may well be that people can talk about what gender is, but those demands cannot be imposed, for example, on someone who teaches biology, because if you do, research is no longer free. In this way, it is a very important debate, and as long as there are reasonable voices in that debate, I also see an uprising against the tyrannisation that is taking place with the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162615	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162618	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. After all, the rapporteur has a great deal of knowledge of the United States, which he just opened up to here. And this is where I would like to take the initiative, because I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that in an American university context it is unfortunate about hatepeech that it also has a dark side, even though the intention in this respect is noble in terms of protecting against hatepeech, namely that it protects against criticism. There is, of course, the possibility of classifying criticism as hatepeech, for example, criticism of Islamists. or unintentional criticism, as has also been the case. So can the rapporteur confirm that this unpleasant link between hatepeech and shutting down critics already exists in American universities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162708	Yes, I can confirm that. It is very much there. And at American universities, debates are constantly being closed down on a weekly basis, because those who come and speak at the university are perceived as having such different views that these views are regarded as hatepeech. And it particularly affects a number of polarizing debaters who would normally have free access to a free debate at a university; it has hit a man such as Ben Shapiro in the United States. And even though I very rarely agree with much of what Ben Shapiro says, I would never be so gifted as a man like him to enter a university to speak. And if we ever get anything like this to this country, smuggled in through the identity policy... however it may lie down in the language and elsewhere... it would be very worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162808	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162809	I would just like to use my second comment to sign off on the fact that the rapporteur mentions the Chicago principles. They are very important and I think they will be more decisive in the future. I can encourage anyone who has not already read them to read them. They really are a healthy and sensible protection of academic freedom • gradually also at Danish universities. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162836	I would like to sign for it and say that I believe that the Chicago principles are some that should be sent out as a shepherd letter from the Minister to all educational institutions, so that you can see how to conduct proper free research. It is a very sensible methodical consideration that is being taken there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162851	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. We are therefore moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. This is Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121162909	Thank you for the floor and thank you very much for taking the initiative in the debate. I would also very much like to thank the Minister for reviewing the issues that have led up to this debate so that we can talk a little more concretely about things rather than on the basis of some stories that are sometimes blown up in the media. This is often a debate that causes emotions to sit on the outside of your clothes and where there are contradictions between taking into account our fellow human beings and having a freedom for yourself. But in Denmark, I think we can easily consider each other without it being a threat to our freedom of expression or our freedom of research. Freedom of expression and freedom of research are absolutely fundamental pillars of our society, and there should be no doubt about that. That is why, of course, we must also talk about how technological developments and our developments in the language affect them. However, there are no cases in which freedom of research or freedom of expression is threatened. There is a huge difference between giving advice in relation to charges and then restricting the freedom of research. There is a huge difference between making a voluntary addition to a writing program in many ways, it reminds of a thesaurus and then restricting freedom of speech. There is, in fact, a great difference between taking account of each other and providing alternative means of indictment and then restricting fundamental freedoms. I agree with some of the others that attention should be paid to how new technology affects Danish society and our language in both good and bad, but I do not believe that the examples that have been presented are problematic. However, this does not change the fact that we must continue the debate and pay attention to developments. At the same time, I am very happy when I see that educational institutions themselves work with inclusion and work on how students can have a good study environment. There is nothing going on with me, because a small consideration is being given to those who are having a really difficult time. Last but not least, I would just like to say that the language is evolving, it is not a constant size. That is why this is also an important discussion. However, we cannot legislate on everything from Christiansborg, which is why I am, in turn, pleased that we are having a discussion in the run-up, even when there is what I think we can see, namely serious examples of the course. Of course, we support the proposal for adoption which we ourselves have helped to put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163222	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163229	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I don't get shredded either by taking into consideration. That's not what this is all about. However, when it is said by the rapporteur that this is a little similar to a thesaurus, I have a concern. For who is it that defines which words take into account, and what words do not; what words are offensive and which are not, and thus can advise me on what to write and not to write? So I'm basically worried about that. We can then say that right now we are in a situation where it is a tool that has not even been put on the market at home yet and which will certainly be able to be turned off. And then you can say, doesn't it matter? But I just think it's really important that we take the discussion now and deal with it, instead of having to deal with it at a time when we can't turn it off, and when it's suddenly controlling what you write, in a completely different way than what it looks like right now. Does the rapporteur not share the concern about what will happen if we do not do something now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163333	Of course, I can share the concern about the challenges that exist with technological developments. At the same time, I think that this is actually opening the door to the whole talk of how, of course, we ensure that we have formed people in our society, who can decide exactly what words we use. And let us just make it clear that the example that has been taken here is something that might only come to Denmark. That would be something you could turn off. This means that it would be possible to opt-out or opt-out if we wanted these proposals at all. That is why I do not see the specific example on which the rapporteur has called the debate as problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163417	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163419	Actually, I'm just trying to be a little careful about trying to do something early. There is no doubt that education is a central concept throughout our education system. There are also challenges and there we can do things much better. Of course, there is also how to act and behave and take into account, etc., no discussion about it. The core problem here for me is really if we accept that there is a system like Microsoft, where some sit out in the world and define what is an offensive word. Who should define what is an offensive word for the rapporteur or for me?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163500	That's actually what I was trying to say with what was also formed. It is, of course, that we form people to be able to decide for ourselves on these things, to be able to assess for ourselves what is the right thing to use. So that is why I also mentioned it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163520	The next question in the line is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163524	Thanks for the speech. It is difficult with hypothetical questions, but it is now sometimes necessary to move on a little and find the lines of these debates, but I would like to ask: if one imagined that a student required to be taught in a gender-neutral language, should one require the teacher to teach in gender-neutral language if someone feels that it is delineating to them or something that even challenges them psychologically?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163558	I think I would say that this must be a concrete assessment at an educational establishment, because it is clear that there will be some studies where being able to use certain gender definitions will be crucial for academic work. And then there will be other times when it will be no problem to take this into account for the people who need it. I think that it will always come down to some of these things, because it is clear that there are gender studies, which are important studies where you will sometimes have to go in and use some names.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163635	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163636	My question was actually about whether we would require the teacher to use a gender-neutral language of education, because then there is one, we have to say, lacuna in the logic here: one way is not to use legislation or regulations to combat changing the language in this way, but the other way is to use legislation to force teachers to teach in a language other than what they had imagined.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163721	Now it's a thoughtful example, but no, I don't think you would impose it on a teacher if it was crucial for the studio to use certain terms. But that is not what this debate has come out of. It has come out of good advice and calls for one to be able to speak properly or in a certain way to one another if there is someone to be given special consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163748	The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163752	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Mads Fuglede to raise this debate to force others to write in a particular language. That is precisely the debate, for example. Jordan Peterson has travelled where he says: I will not be forced to speak in a language other than natural English. But what I really want to ask is that language, for example. is in literary texts. If students or teachers are offended by languages and gender perceptions in literary texts... that is, most love poems with which I have become acquainted during the many years I have read literature, have been rather binary... should they be rewritten to Emil Aarestrup in a nonbinary version, or what do you imagine?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163839	I don't think so. I also thought I was trying to answer the question before. After all, there is a difference between looking at it forwards and taking into account each other and then going in and imposing something or changing something.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163858	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163859	The only thing is that there is what is the Radical Left's position on changing existing texts, for example. works of art, for the sakes we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163928	I would just like to make it clear that I am certainly not an expert on that, that is, what should be for the sake of it. But there's a difference. There may be times when it can make sense, and then there may be other times when it changes what it says. I can't make myself a protagonist for all things and all little consideration that could be. However, as a starting point, I do not think that texts should be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121163958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Carøe, and that is for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164009	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the authors for raising the debate on a very topical subject. Last week there were new changes to the Danish Dictionary, among others. marriage is now no longer defined as a couple consisting of a man and a woman who is married to each other. It's changed into a couple of two people who are married to each other. This is a sign that the Danish language is evolving. And it always has. The debate on how we talk about and to each other is extremely topical. It is not least on the basis of a number of recent studies that show that in 2019 there are still a great many people in our society who thrive very badly because, for one reason or another, they are different from the majority. A new study from last week shows that the suicide rate among homosexuals and bisexuals in Denmark is one and a half times higher than that of heterosexuals. It also shows that it is particularly bad among young people. We know from other studies that it looks even worse for the other lgbt+ people, and that for example. Tranests thrive extremely badly with frighteningly high numbers of suicides, depressions, anxiety and the like. Language usage is by no means the only explanation for these creepy figures, but I believe that it is one of the explanations, not least for young people, who may be extremely vulnerable in the process of jumping out or tumbling with the fact that they have a gender identity other than the one they were born with. Words don't matter. They mean something. When the word gay is still used as a scorn word, when public systems insist that there are only male and female genders, when children as very young are confronted with girls' colours and boys' colours and with certain expectations of how they should look and behave, depending on the sex organs they have, it helps to make it extremely difficult if you do not fit into the boxes that society expects. That is why I actually welcome the fact that companies like Microsoft are updating their programs for a more inclusive language. It is not revolutionary, but it is a recognition that, as a large IT company, they also have a responsibility, not least because a huge amount of communication between people today takes place in writing in front of a computer screen. Of course, we have to keep an eye on where technology limits, but the way I see it, this function offers opportunities, if it is of course ensured that you can choose it from. I believe that it is an expression of good and modern management that employees at the Department of Arts and Culture at the University of Copenhagen receive an email with a guide on how to ensure the inclusion of all students. It's an acknowledgement that this isn't easy. This is a good help for teachers who want to create the best learning environment for students. In addition to the fact that we in the SF do not believe that we should politically regulate which e-mails the educational institutions send to their employees, I personally see the guidance of the senior management team as both progressive and extremely thoughtful and as an honest interest in creating the best learning environment for their students. Furthermore, I do not believe that the two initiatives create a risk that freedom of research or freedom of expression will be at risk. Allowing for a more inclusive language does not prevent anyone from not saying or investigating things they want to. We therefore do not share the fears of the authors of the examples of a new language slide, but we are delighted that the language continues to develop and, in this case, to be more inclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164344	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few Members who have wanted to ask questions. The first is sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164351	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. There is no doubt that the Danish language is evolving. It has always done so, and it will always do so, and it must always do so, otherwise it is not a living language. So we can't really disagree on that. I am a little sorry that the debate is now going to be very much about gender and the way we talk about it, because that is not really my business at all. But I get worried when the rapporteur says that it might be a very good idea for Microsoft to come here. It may well be if it hits precisely into the rapporteur's assessment of what is considerate language, but if they now chose the language that may exist in some parts of the interior of America there are places where there is little consideration, I think, for certain groups that is the language we need to have in? So who is going to decide what this programme is going to recommend to the rapporteur and me? Who's gonna be allowed to decide that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164450	As has already been said, it is a programme which is offered to consumers and from which to choose. And as long as it is, I find it only welcome that you have the opportunity to be updated on how to make your language more inclusive. So you can choose it from, and if you couldn't choose it from, I'd think it was a completely different talk. But that's what they say you can do if it comes to Denmark at all. There are several areas where technology restricts us, for example. with things being shown on social media and being removed again. But here I think it actually offers opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164524	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164525	But if it were the other way around, if it were the case that when I wrote a police officer, it said that I should write a policeman, and if I wrote a premier or a premier, would that be okay? Would it also be just a tool that came and that we could choose to use?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164546	Yes, but I wouldn't use it, because I'd like to try using a more inclusive language. But I wouldn't mind that it was a function of a word program as long as we don't get imposed on having to do these things. And we don't do that. It's an opportunity that Microsoft is going to make available.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164606	The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164610	Thanks for the speech. I shall just try to understand what is at stake when, for example, the rapporteur. speaks of girls' colours and boys' colours or other forms of language related to gender perception. After all, we have a gender-based labour market. Is it the case that if you take a control group with girls and boys and only give them green toys, for example, this control group will get a different business pattern from a group where you give girls pink toys and boys light blue toys? Or does it not have any impact on the gender-based labour market, so these are just feelings we are talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164656	Well, now it was in this context to talk about what inclusive language is and how it can be difficult for people who can't define themselves in these boxes to be part of our society. But we know that education has a huge impact on what choices we make in life, so it certainly has. But that may not be what we were discussing today. These were examples of how we can be more inclusive in our language.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164719	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164721	But it is depression and similar circumstances in people who have a transgender identity or do not feel at home in a common binary gender perception. Is it the case that these depression rates change if you change the language, or does language have no influence on the spread of depression?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164755	We can see that it is such that if you are recognised with the gender identity you have, you will feel better and there is a lower risk compared to depression and suicide. So, yes, it matters how we talk. And I think, when we talk about the things that are the examples today, that it is a way in which the University of Copenhagen ensures that more of their students get better, and I think that is only welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164822	The next question is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164825	I'd like to come back to something, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned, because as I understood Mrs Carøe, it was said that it would not be against if a version were made that was directed the opposite way. Is it true that if you made a version of Word where it was so that every time you wrote African-American, it would suggest that you put it back to Negroes, or if you wrote that you were mentally handicapped, it would suggest that you put it back to stupid or a word that was worse, so that in SF you would have no problem with it if such a program were made?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164902	Those are not the examples, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl came before it was that it was directed from the police officer to the policeman. I would certainly find this problematic too, but in relation to whether to regulate it, I would say that this is a really thought example, and I do not think it would in any way be something that happened right now. However, one might have the opportunity to withdraw it and say no, and then perhaps use another text program as well. But using the n-word I see as quite racist, so I would probably choose to use a completely different text application from Microsoft's.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164939	Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164940	I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is not a word to go and use. And I'm glad there's this consistency, even though we disagree with the logic behind what freedom of expression is, and also with how these options and opt-outs should be. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121164956	You're welcome. And yes, I think it is important that we safeguard our freedom of expression and that you have the opportunity to use the words you want to, but of course wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165005	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165020	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party and to the rapporteur for opening a debate which has actually proved to be very interesting about new languages, but also in reality about what technology means for our society and how language affects our well-being. I think that's fine. We're discussing that. However, I still honestly have some doubts about what the Danish People's Party would like the government or parliament to do in particular with the proposal for adoption. Are we supposed to go around acting as language police when someone says something we don't like? Should we be the language police if a word is not shown in the old red dictionary? Is that where the government and the minister are going? I think that is precisely an interference in freedom of expression and an attempt at linguistic uniformity if the government is to go out and require free universities or companies to write or speak in certain ways, to write to their employees in certain ways or to avoid making special language programmes. The language that many people have mentioned is something that sometimes develops as society changes. At other times, it can almost be said that language contributes to the development of society. That is why I still have some questions for the rapporteur, but I would like to say that I think it is relevant to discuss new languages in particular, because I also have a view that new languages are too widely used in Danish politics. So I am glad if there is also a desire in the Danish People's Party that we politicians use the language more precisely. I can give you some examples... maybe a little polemical from when the Danish People's Party was working with the previous government. After all, what I would call cuts, which were then called reprioritisations or budgetary improvements, was worked on in the field of education. There was also something about something su that turned into café money. I think we should definitely stop using this kind of new language in the Folketing. Finally, I would like to say that I support the proposal for adoption which we have been involved in preparing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165244	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165249	Thank you. I can quite agree that the new language that flourishes in here could be more precise. And in many contexts there is no doubt that we are trying to rewrite things, in other words to refer to them in a different way, they are perceived differently by the population than they really are. So we can work on that, and I think we should take that up in here. I don't think we should make laws and rules about it, but I think we should discuss it, just like we are doing here today. However, I think that there is a significant difference, because what this is about for me and the Danish People's Party is not so much how we ensure that we talk to each other properly and how we can work with it, but more, whether someone should tell us what is right to say, what are some words that are offensive or not offensive, what for some words we should write, what to say. I think that is really, really important, and that is why I am concerned. Then you can say it's a function you can turn off in that Microsoft, and now it's just an example of something that's on the way. But if it were, as Mads Birds also exemplified before, exactly the opposite, shouldn't we relate to it? Is it only when we like what's coming that we have to say that maybe that's good enough? Because what's behind it? It's not just one word, it's thousands of words, so there's an influence, and it's probably gonna be something that's gonna be knocked around, and then it's gonna start pushing our language. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165421	But at a start, I would like to say that I am pleased with the agreement that we can look at the new language that is being used in the Folketing, and the left wing certainly has something in the bag that you might be able to change. The rapporteur asks whether anyone should tell us what we have to say. No, I do not think so, and certainly not the Folketing. That is why I believe that the Folketing should not go in and interfere, no matter what change Microsoft makes, and no matter how disagree I would be in it. I do not think we should do that in the Folketing, for example. is a university which has some advice for their employees on how to talk to the students.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165509	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165510	But that is where we will get into a fundamental disagreement, because we believe that we have to deal with a company like Microsoft with the resources they have and the political agendas they might have to deal with what it is they are coming and putting on us so that we do not just run blindly and correct. I have no doubt that if we do nothing, then suddenly we have some systems where we are pushed, where our language is pushed, that is, where you will actually be able to see in what is written from the style of the primary school to the thesis at the university that the language has suddenly become something else. And it is not because we have worked at home with the language and it has evolved and has become something else as it always does, but because there are some outsiders who have come and pushed our language. I think that's really, really dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165600	I basically agree with the rapporteur that there are enormous challenges with the way in which technology giants particularly challenge our way of life; I am just not as concerned about the linguistic dimension as about dimensions that are about monitoring and much else. I simply do not think that we are there yet where it can be said that this is such a major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165624	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see a rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. So the next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165643	Thank you for the floor. I'm a standin' for mr. Uffe Elbæk, who unfortunately had to go to an event he had promised to attend. In connection with Microsoft, we have our free choice... whether we want to use the program or not... in the same way that we can use spell checking or not, and this has worked for many years. And we must, of course, be aware of the development and impact of technology on Danish society, and free research must of course be protected, but I do not see that this is a threat to it. It is important that there is a safe study environment where all students are seen and respected as what they are. As mentioned earlier, being part of a minority group leads to loneliness and, at worst, suicide. I will respect the right of the head of department and study to lead. If I am to mean anything about it anyway, then I have only credit for the fact that the manager is exercising his management right in terms of giving good advice on how the teacher can include all students in a new situation. And, of course, in the alternative, we support the proposal for adoption that we have drawn up together with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165755	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief question from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165802	Thank you. I would really like to ask the alternative's position: is there no concern about the challenge we see from Microsoft in getting in and influencing the language, namely in terms of influencing what are offensive words and what are not offensive words? Is that something that is not at all worrying, and is it something that we should actually just ignore and where we should think that it might not make any difference? Or do you agree that it is actually a challenge for us and for our language if someone comes from outside and thus helps push the way it is right and wrong to speak in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165841	Thank you. That is something we must pay close attention to if we get that programme at all. We cannot, of course, accept that there are offensive words that bother and perhaps are racist in relation to minority groups. So if we get it in, we have to follow developments and see if it is okay, and that is why it has to be such that it can be ruled out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165908	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165909	The rapporteur is now saying that we must be careful with insulting words, and I am in complete agreement with that. But who is to decide on such a programme? If that programme starts to propose offensive words, do we still have to say that this is something we can sort out from, or is it something we have to do something about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165928	I do not think that we can make such a general view about it, because we know that there are, of course, different nuances. But I think that if there are offensive words that are not accepted and are not respectful, then we should address it. But it is probably based more on confidence that it will be good and that it will be the case that we can avoid using the programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121165955	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170009	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this debate, which is important. This is something that is happening gradually, and some of the examples we are talking about may not be so significant at this stage. One can pull on the shoulders and laugh a little at it with some of the infringement cases that have been, but that is something that we see gradually developing, and it is important that we take it in the bud or at least pay attention to it. I think it is a worrying development that we see, both when we talk about an infringement culture and about identity policy that spreads and where people are identified in groups instead of as individuals by gender or sexual orientation or skin color or whatever it may be. It is not so bad in Denmark, but we can see how developments are in other countries. After all, we have been talking about the United States, where this is being used to bring through a political agenda. Words are power, and that is also why the question refers to new languages, which is an example of how defining languages can influence how people have the opportunity to think. I also find it worrying that minorities will impose their views on the majority and demand that special consideration be given to them. That is what happens when, for example, we do. may not use him or her and shall use his or her name or any other name other than that which is shared by the majority. We must, of course, take account of minorities, and people must be allowed to feel exactly what they want and have the opinions they want, but I do not think it is fair that they can demand that the majority should be required to conform to their view of life. And I think we see examples of this. Henrik Dahl mentioned that literature has begun to be written about this in Denmark, but we all know the examples of Pippi Longstocking from Sweden and statues being torn down around by activist groups. I think that is something we should be aware of. We should not take this lightly, because it is a development that we do not know where will lead and it can potentially lead to an unpleasant place. So the question is, what can we do? The first thing we can do is of course talk about it, which is why I think it is very good that we have this debate. And can we do something or should we do something? I don't know. Now New Citizens, together with the Danish People's Party, have put forward this proposal for adoption, where we call for us to try to consider whether something could be done or not necessarily to do something, but one could consider it. So we would urge that we all continue to pay close attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170349	Thank you. There are a few questions and comments. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170353	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. After all, the rapporteur is a little bit concerned about what we can do, and we can take the debate, and that is what we are doing. However, the proposal for adoption calls for the government to consider steps to ensure the linguistic pluralism of the Danish language. Then I am just a little interested in hearing what it could be for some steps the rapporteur could imagine taking to protect the Danish language. After all, it is a little crucial what steps are taken and whether, in the name of freedom of expression, in reality, freedom of expression will end up being restricted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170432	I cannot answer that either, and I do not think we should go in to ban teachers, for example. may use it if they so wish. Perhaps there is something more to be thought about, like imposing restrictions, so that we should not ban, for example. the use of male and female, so that they made a delineation, so that they could not enter censoring.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170458	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170500	What, then, in the case where a local community decides jointly whether it is at a university or at a football club that in their association or community and educational institution they do not want to use concepts like him and she and use gender? The rapporteur and I may then disagree with whether one should go out to the language, but if a community decides that this is how they should be together, that is how they should talk to each other, is it really up to the Folketing to forbid them to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170532	No, but that's not what I'm saying. Of course, you can make some decisions about what you want to do, but you probably shouldn't go in there imposing any restrictions on what you can and you can't. Of course, there is also a difference between whether we are talking about a university or whether we are talking about some billiard club.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170558	Then it is Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170600	Thank you very much for that and thank you for your speech. I was just wondering, as the rapporteur said, about the fact that minorities must not restrict majority voting and that we see examples of this happening today. There I just want to hear what examples the rapporteur refers to, because I simply do not know about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170622-2	I have just referred to the examples we have seen. We can, for example. Take this famous example of the young blonde girl. Here it is said that the song must not be sung, although it is obvious that it would be a very minimal minority that would have something against it. There, of course, we take account of something which the vast majority of people cannot in any way perceive as offensive, but because one person sees it as offensive, one goes in here and makes a restriction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170653	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170654	Thank you. I'm surprised you mentioned that example because you haven't stopped singing that song anywhere. You haven't stopped saying he and she at the universities. It has been encouraged to make the language a little more inclusive. And you've been lining up to tell me you're still singing the song. I'm still singing the song, too. That's a good song. That is why I do not see the restrictions that the rapporteur is talking about here. I experience more media that makes a good story because the Danes find it exciting. In fact, I would still like to ask for examples of where it is that we are experiencing these limitations that the rapporteur is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170731	It was good that the rapporteur was said and not you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170734	Then maybe I have been misinformed if I misunderstood that a guideline has been set out that it may have been made about not singing that song, because it could be offensive to a dark-haired woman who was there. And as I say, the problem may not be so great today either. I'm more worried about what this could turn into. You see at American universities that they are shutting down political debates by assigning it to the fact that it may offend or offend people and universities specifically shut down debates for right-wing debaters.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170813	Thank you, then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121170832	Thank you for the floor, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this incredibly exciting debate, and thank you for the very exciting debate we have already had. As several rapporteurs have said, new languages are, after all, a concept derived from George Orwell's novel '1984', and what the new language is is is a power technique that eliminates the difference between true and false. This is a technique of power based on a concept which I have to ask the President for permission to mention, because it is called something ugly, but I hope that when I quote directly, it is acceptable that the President cannot know, but I find that I am allowed to drive further by an American philosopher named Harry Frankfurt, who has published a very scholar essay called 'Om Bullshit'. Now the word is just like out of the bag, and the concept that Harry Frankfurt in his very learned philosophical treaty calls bullshit is what new languages are: a way of speaking where the distinction between true and false is simply gone. It doesn't matter. It is only a question of obtaining agreement with what is being said. But the question of new languages has not been raised because of a Stalin- or Hitler-like dictatorship, as Orwell predicted. This has come about because of an aggressive policy of identity, and this is what we need to talk about, because there can be some very specific policy errors, as I also mentioned in previous questions, and if you combine these political errors, then you have the scandal. That is why we must not avoid talking about it. After all, there are many discussions about what identity policy is. Anyone who, in my opinion, has written the best about this is a sociologist called Manuel Castells. He already predicted for approx. Twenty years ago that the 21st century would become the century of identity policy. Now we are about a fifth into the 21st century, and it has to be said that he has been right about that. It was a strong prognosis. What is at the heart of identity policy that is relevant to us politicians is that it consists of some demands for collective rights. We cannot talk about completely banning collective rights, for being a Danish citizen, for example. I am in favour of collective rights in relation to all those who are not Danish citizens. However, one must be very reluctant and think very well before granting collective rights, because collective rights can only be granted by depriving individuals of their individual rights. That is how the system of collective rights works. So when someone comes and says they want a collective right, you always have to ask who it is that has to hand over some rights in order for this collective right to be given. It is one of the key cores of identity policy. This is where the language comes in, for example. The University of Copenhagen is, after all, a development known from the United States, which consists of some political mistakes, taking some in isolation from sensible things. It is said, for example, that we want to combat hatepeech for the sake of groups that are having a difficult time and for the sake of the cohesion of society in general, but that there are, of course, some tedious links between hatepeech and the restriction of freedom of expression, to which we must pay attention. Combining this with the idea of unconscious violation, which is a road that the University of Copenhagen has already been going down, the problems begin. And if you combine it with a collective right to be free from unintentional violations, it starts to become some very dangerous political errors that have been made. And if you combine it with new language, we're in trouble. These are four in isolation, less problematic elements which have been combined and which can be combined. These are the ones we are talking about, because they can simply lead to severe restrictions on freedom of expression. This may lead to criticism being classified as hatepeech, and then we have ruined the idea of a university. That is what is actually on the line. That is why I am extremely pleased that we are having this debate today, because these are serious matters we are talking about. We welcome the broad proposal for adoption and the seriousness of the problem. With those comments, I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171325	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. No one has any comments. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. No, I should like to hear whether the rapporteur can come back because there was a comment anyway. Henrik Dahl Yes, with the permission of the President, I will take my place immediately). Good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171349	I'm sorry about that. I thought I'd pushed myself in. Thank you to the rapporteur for what I think was an extremely interesting speech. I actually fully share that horror scenario... so the nightmare of what identity policy can end up doing. But I think the interesting thing for us here is to see if we can't find a way where we don't end up in the nightmare, but where we can also let our language develop in a way where the minorities who may have felt outside the way we spoke feel included. I guess that's what was really the intention at the University of Copenhagen. So I want to hear whether the rapporteur does not think that there is a middle way between the nightmare and the fact that we are not doing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171440	Well, there are some options. Sir. Mads Birde has mentioned the Chicago principles, and I must say that it is appropriate to mention them here. And I agree with what has been said that the Minister could easily send them out as a shepherd's letter with a well-chosen and articulate accompanying letter; that would do a great deal. There is, of course, also the issue of unconscious violations, and there is, of course, the whole debate on hatepeech, because this is a discussion which has also been seen in other contexts as a lever to avoid justified criticism of, for example, the situation. religion. And justified criticism of religion must not be classified as hatepeech.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171514	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171516	Thank you. So may I not just try to ask the rapporteur some of what has also been part of the debate today, namely the whole question of the tech giants and the impact of technology on our language, culture and democracy. How does the rapporteur view the development in which large foreign companies end up having a great influence in the way we talk and form our community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171540	I interpreted Mr. Mads Fuglerde's analysis of the phenomenon in this way... if you have to boil it all in... that it was said that some of these tech giants are opportunistic. And out of opportunism there is a market in that part of American universities that has turned their backs on Chicago principles and where deplating and other phenomena are taking place. It is a large market because there are many universities in the United States and relatively opportunisticly one goes there. I do not think it is a good idea to take legislative action, but mockery, mockery and ridicule are good old media, which also tend to work in these contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171628	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121171636	Thank you. Thank you for a truly interesting afternoon and a very relevant and exciting debate. Thank you to the rapporteur for bringing us together. In fact, I am quite proud both of our universities and of our Parliament's ability to discuss these things on the basis of values and principles and to engage in the discussion. I do not see that we have a country where, with some of the examples that have been mentioned today, we draw scare pictures that we are. Several times the University of Copenhagen has been mentioned as someone who was going down the wrong road but who adjusted, and I would actually like to be allowed to hold on to that. For some of what I experience is the strength in the way it is discussed, in the Danish debate, is precisely that we try to accommodate, that we try to develop, that we try to go modern to it, and that we try to give all people a place as they are, but without going too far, and without compromising that at a university one is provoked • one is challenged, and one is met with some other opinions than one's own attitude, and that is what one must do and we must stand firm on the freedom of research. The University Act says this loud and clear, and we must safeguard that, of course. But that does not change, I think, that when faced with the individual, one can show the tolerance and respect that lies in asking: How do you want to be prosecuted? I think we should practice that these two things can exist at the same time. I believe that in a country like Denmark we can. But it's gonna take us to practice finding that balance. And I'll give Mr. Henrik Dahl is partly right in saying that identity policy is going to be dangerous where it affects our media areas, because things are going to get completely out of control and people are forming positions in a split second, and then it will be just overreactions that are going to be controlled. And there I think it must be a task both for our educational institutions and for us as legislators to keep our tongues straight, to stand firm on our principles, to stand firm on freedom of expression and freedom of research, while at the same time practicing, both how we talk about gender, but also how we address each other from what holds each other best. And yes, it may well be that we would really benefit from practicing to say police rather than police; it might be that my daughter would grow up and think that it was also a subject for her, although it has not historically been. So, yes, it has to evolve. That's what I hear, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl recognizes: that languages evolve. But we should not, in misunderstood terms, give up any of the basic principles, and that balance is not written anywhere where we find ourselves. And that is why a debate like this is both important and welcome, and I am glad that we have been able to take it in such a fine style as I think we have done today, and I would like to thank you all for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172017	Then there's a question. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172019	Thank you for your speech, Minister. I agree that the debate is doing something good, that is also what we can see has happened at the University of Copenhagen, and it is very good that the fact that we are addressing something can do something. What I lack a clear answer from the Minister today is really the challenge with Microsoft, which comes with some programmes which provide some definitions of what is considerate speech, what is the right words to use in certain contexts. Is it okay for the Minister to come a large company from outside and tell us what is right and what is wrong? Are they the ones who should be allowed to define what is up and what is down? And what if they turned it upside down, so that was actually the second situation we faced, should we do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172117	If there is anything I can sense in this debate, it is that it always helps to start with something very concrete, because if we get too far into the thought examples, it will be harder. This is a small corner of what technology does to our lives, and that's why we have to deal with it. I recently had the opportunity to have a conversation with Brad Smith from Microsoft, and we talked about how everything they put into our lives, technology at all, the way we are together as people, affects us. It is a gigantic discussion and we must be much better at taking it, and the tech giants must be held responsible for exactly the role they have been given, but we are politically far, far from being good enough for that, I think. We're gonna practice that, and we're gonna have to do it all over the field. What I was dealing with quite specifically was the potential, possible proposals that might appear in the Danish version, and the few examples that I have seen I have not raised any concern about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172220	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172221	I agree, in fact, that the small examples we have heard of do not overturn the world, but it is, in fact, more to yell at the gun and say that we must tackle it now. I know that the Minister is very concerned about the well-being aspect of this whole technology world, and that is connected, so I hope that the Minister will give an undertaking to take it in and say that this is an angle that we must tackle before we have something we do not like until we have something that does something about our language and our way of speaking that we do not like. So can we not agree that this must be tackled and something must be done about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172301	I think it is a debate that we should have with each other on a regular basis. That's what this is all part of, and that's why I've also signed up for us to have an opportunity to talk about it. The general trend of technology in the way we are human beings really plays a major role in well-being. I think that one of the reasons why we have a youth year, which for the first time is more lonely than our older people, is that you are together alone and alone together. The way we are together as people is completely broken up, especially our children and young people, and that is something we must deal with. This is a concern for me, but it is also a development that we politically need to take on board and which our educational institutions will have to offer, and I think we should work together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172349	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. And then, sir... Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172401	I'm not gonna hold you guys long, but I'd like to pick up a little bit. We have, like, had several discussions in one, and everyone is relevant, but they may all stand a little in the way of each other. We have discussed gender and consideration in relation to what is to be used and what is not to be used, we have discussed what has happened in universities, and then we have discussed tech and Microsoft and what they are doing. These are three different things that we have to deal with and work with. At the same time, the debate has been about whether we are going to rewrite the literature, and there I heard some people say that it could actually be, while others also said that we should look at it in the future. Then I get worried, and then I think that we will at least have the discussion again here, because I certainly do not think we should. So the crux of the discussion that we really want to bring up, that is why we call it the new language, is that someone comes and defines for us what we must and what we must not. I still think I lack a good answer to who should be allowed to define when Microsoft comes, what is right to say and what is not right to say. Why do we accept that? Why do we say: well, it's probably just coming, it's a little harmless, and we might not be able to do anything about it anyway, and we can just turn it off? On the one hand, it is not certain that we will be able to turn it off in a moment, and on the other hand, I am quite sure that just putting proposals on a screen will affect the way we do it. And what about the day on which they come up with proposals that are contrary to what we have a consensus on in here would be okay to say, what do we do then? That is why I hope that, as a starting point, we can have a continuing dialogue. After all, both proposals for adoption suggest taking this seriously and following it, so I think that we can at least get the dialogue on how we take it up when the minister discusses with Microsoft. Let's get this subject in too, let's let them deal with it, let's see if we can do something, if we can control it, and if we can help set some limits, so that we have at least a little bit of control. It is not that we have to legislate from here on what to say or not to say. It can be said that our freedom of expression is, of course, a legal right to say things, and we must stick to it and protect it. So I would just like to end here by thanking you very much for the debate and the many themes, and I am quite sure that we will come back in this forum and take some of the debates at a later stage. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172639	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172643	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for a good debate. I just wanted to say that I did not hear anyone say in the debate that the literature had to be rewritten or that the texts had to be reworded. At least that's not what I'm taking with me from here. On the contrary, I take it from here that there is really a broad consensus in the Folketing to take this seriously, which the rapporteur also concludes with. I would just like to ask quite specifically what the rapporteur says about Microsoft and that they should not be the language police. That is basically what the rapporteur says, and I fully agree with that. But with the proposal for adoption in what were some steps the government had to take specifically to ensure that Microsoft did not become the language police?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172726	Well, I could see that in a dialogue with Microsoft one said: You simply don't introduce that in Denmark • the Danish version will not contain guidance on how to write carefully so that what they just put in is of course right-hand writing and grammatical things and things like that, but that they don't go in and do language politics like that. Then we get rid of it, and for that matter they can do whatever they want elsewhere in the world; that is not something we should decide. But that's the kind of thing I actually imagine we could do. It could also be taking the guidance from Chicago and saying: Well, is that something we can use at home, and is that something we can recommend our universities to look at? We can do that precisely in order to stand up to this and actually say as due diligence that we think this is serious. We think we should take it seriously, even before it becomes a serious problem, so that we can resolve things while they are so small that we can
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172825	I'm gonna have to ask you, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær to push in, but it doesn't matter now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172832	I thought you had the floor for the second time automatically. I am very sorry about that. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that we do not want to regulate the language in order to guarantee freedom of expression through legislation, but that it is through dialogue and action of the kind of policy that is needed to safeguard freedom of expression and that it is not through legislation? Because that is what I hear the rapporteur say, namely that he does not want us to make legislation on the development of languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172859	Well, I certainly do not want us to legislate on the development of language. The language must be allowed to evolve; it just should not be controlled and influenced by forces other than the Danes. We must be allowed to develop the language with each other as we use it. And then we can then work to develop the language better in here, so that we also get a more understandable jargon compared to the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172920	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will, as I said, take place only on Tuesday 26 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121172939	We'll just wait a minute, but I think we're about to be there. Here we go. The debate is open, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121173029	Thank you. Today we are discussing L 64 entitled "Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recovery of Public Debts, the Tax Reporting Act and the Act on Active Employment Efforts'. The bill is an expiry of the agreement to strengthen the public debt collection concluded in June 2017 by all parties in the Folketing. Basically, the draft law must provide better opportunities for the recovery of public debt. Specifically, a need has been identified to strengthen the possibility of recovering debts from debtors abroad. It will often be a costly business to recover debts from a debtor abroad, but with this bill, we allow the Debt Authority to use a private accountant to scratch in the debt, and the bill also means that the recovery costs must be covered by the debtor. It has just been a wish of the municipal utilities that they can use private recovery of their debts abroad on an equal footing with private utilities, and that is what we want to do with this bill. The second element of the bill is a little more complicated. It is a question of the government abolishing the right of deduction of interest on recovery which is added to the debt in the course of recovery by means of the bill. This means that recovery interest can be paid for the right year of income. As the rules are today, for various reasons it may be difficult to assess which year there is a right to deduct, but with this change of law this exercise will be considerably easier since, as I have said, the right to deduct interest on recovery is abolished. The final element of the draft law is that the Danish Debt Authority should be given the opportunity to finalise recovery proceedings where there may have been an incorrect recovery, back from when the EFI system ran in the period from 2013 to 2015. With the bill, we shall postpone the limitation period for any repayment claims that may be made so that the debtors can settle their cases. In the Social Democratic Party, we basically regard our tax administration as the foundation of our welfare society, which is why we will also invest in our tax administration and ensure that tax administration gets back on track. In this context, we believe that it is important for recovery to be dealt with in general terms, and we look at this draft law as a step on that road. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party may not be surprisingly able to support the bill, and we look forward to the further work on the proposal in the Tax Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121173255	Thank you. There are no comments, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121173309	Thank you, President. Today we are addressing the first reading of L 64. It is a legislative proposal in which parts of the legislative proposal follow on from the agreement to strengthen public debt recovery. It was an agreement made by the previous government together with the parties of the Folketing. The bill brings about a great deal of changes, in fact five. Firstly, the draft law aims to allow municipal-owned utilities to use private debt collection companies to cover debts and to allow utilities to pass on the costs of recovering debts to debtors. Secondly, the draft law aims to ensure that when Danish authorities recover debts abroad, the Danish authorities can pass on the costs of charging debts to the debtor. Both here are some good changes, because it ensures that municipal utilities and authorities can recover debt effectively both at home and abroad. We in the Left are very much in favour of this. The third of the five amendments entails the abolition of the right to deduct interest on recovery. This would obviously lead to a simplification of the rules in the field of recovery and would also result in additional revenue. I should like to return to that part of the third proposal. The fourth amendment implies that the authorities do not claim repayment from non-State claimants who have received undue sums recovered. The fifth amendment is that non-State actors who have repaid sums unduly recovered to the authorities should be returned the amounts, including interest. It's fine. However, I should like to return to the part where the right to deduct interest is abolished. Basically, we in the Left are wondering that this part is part of the bill. At any rate, we do not remember that it was part of the political agreement when it was concluded. This is something new which has been inserted and which was not part of the political agreement. It is not because we in the Left do not understand the explanatory statement, at least in theory, namely that there appear to be these problems of leftovers and that the abolition of the deduction should simplify the rules in the field of recovery, also simplifying the recovery itself. As you all know, the Left is in favour of an effective recovery system and of paying your taxes, as well as your debts, and preferably on time. The problem for us is that it is very difficult to make it transparent how far these problems are, whether they are real or whether they are just thought problems. And then there is an additional income of lasting 135 million. kr., where what we can read from the bill is that some of it has to go to the municipalities, but otherwise it does not say in detail how the proceeds are to be used. We are a little sceptical about this, and here we need clear answers, perhaps even some changes, if we are to be able to support this part of the bill. So, to sum up, I would like to say that the Left is in favour of four of the five amendments to the draft law, but we need to have clear answers, some explanations, perhaps some changes, in relation to the deduction proposed to be abolished. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121173620	Thank you. There are no comments here either, so we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121173627	As I have said, this is another bill on debt, and we have had a great many over the years. It has typically been about simplifying the legislation, and here it is such a slightly different mixed approach, but still something that revolves around debt recovery. The first thing I want to mention is about the debt of debtors abroad, which will typically be su-debt, where you have the challenge of not having such an agreement with other countries, so you can help in recovering each other's debts and therefore have to typically use a foreign debt collection company or other. That is why this bill has made it possible to pass on the costs to the debtors in those cases. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a good thing. The second point I would like to mention is about the issue of municipal-owned utilities, which have been working for a long time to obtain the same rights as privately-owned utilities, that is to say, the fact that the municipal-owned have to use the state's recovery, which is not really running, because no crowns will be involved, and at the same time you can see that the private have other options. There they have asked for the same opportunities. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a very good idea. In other words, it is also a model that we think should be spread out. That is why I would just like to mention it and make some publicity for our own resolution, which will come on later, in a week or two, I think it is that this model should also be extended to others. Why, for example? municipalities or other non-governmental organisations also have the opportunity? Then they can say that in the next three-year period we would like to be allowed to stand for it ourselves, both because it can relieve the Debt Board, and perhaps also because it can then enable you as a citizen to experience that you are going to pay off your debt. For as it is right now, there is simply a gap in which one will not pay to the extent that one should probably do. In fact, we also think it's good that with this bill there is such a period of three years. I could see that in the consultation answers there was a demand that we should do it from claim to claim, and we really think it makes reasonable sense to choose it for a period rather than for each debt item that is. However, I have a few things I would like to ask you about. I have actually asked a question in committee but can mention it here too, i.e. whether it has perhaps become a little too tight and whether it could be a little more flexible. There are, for example: You have to choose within a period of six months, whether you want one or the other. What is wrong with the fact that, after a year or one and a half, people found that they wanted to choose private or public recovery? There is also the part that is mentioned in the consultation answers, namely that it is really a one-off offer. In other words, if you are today a municipal-owned utility company and you say that now you want to use the private rules, and you can choose to go back after three years, then it is over there. What if, in the year 6 or 9, you find out that you really want to go back to the private? Because I really think it is healthy that there is some competition in this area, that is to say you are pushing the Tax Authority in the sense that if they do not get a recovery up and running, as we hope, then you can also later say that you want to use the private ones. This means that they will have to get up all the time if, as a utility company, you can choose the solution that you think is best. But I have asked a few questions in committee too, and then we can look at it afterwards. Then there is the third element which is, after all, about cleaning up old cases, i.e. typically those which do not have the force of law, as I understand it, that is to say, where the obsolescence is postponed. We support that. Then there is the last part I would like to mention, and it is the right to deduct interest on recovery that is being removed, and that gives the 135 million, as I said. kr. Basically, I do not think this is a particularly good idea because it gives some form of asymmetry in legislation. As a rule, interest is deducted in many other areas, whether it is on mortgage loans or other. And there it's kind of weird that you just remove the right to deduct on this one point. But on the other hand, it must also be a new recovery system that can be handled and, as I understand the draft law, this system support simply cannot be built up. There is, of course, a balance, i.e. whether you want to live with the principle that it should be in order or that we should have a recovery system that can work. And if you have to think a little loud I sat down on my chair and thought about it, but I have to admit that I hadn't prepared it in my speech... why would it have to be distributed in every single year? In other words, we could not say from a legal point of view that you are still getting your deduction, but if the problem is that you do not know whether it is 1, 2, 3 or 4, you still get the deduction, but then you may have to live with the fact that it is not until the year 4 that it comes into the state recovery, and then you just get the whole deduction that year. After all, it's better than not getting the deduction at all. That was just what could be another solution instead of completely removing the deduction, namely whether it might make it possible for you not to get it on every single year, what I understand can be difficult to solve. But, of course, we can try to examine it in committee. I don't necessarily expect the tax minister to have answered that today. And it is also just to think out loud, i.e. if you could go another way. But otherwise I would say that our first priority on the part of the Danish People's Party is certainly that we must have a debt recovery that is going to work, and of course it should not be the case that we cannot legally manage to deal with these situations. So, of course, a solution needs to be found. To conclude, I would like to say that we are in favour of this proposal, but have some questions for clarification in the work of the committee. But we're counting on it to be a yes to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121174117	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121174129	Thank you so much. Recovery of public debt is one of the most important tasks facing us in the area of taxation. It is basically about not only restoring citizens' confidence in the tax administration, but also about restoring citizens' trust in each other, trusting that we will, of course, pay the fines we receive, paying children's contributions, su-debts and all the other outstanding debts we receive in the course of our lives with the public as citizens of a welfare society. That is why we consider it very positive that the proposal gives the utilities new opportunities to recover outstanding amounts by means of private recovery. Because when we start recovering the debt, it is important for the Radical Left that we use all the tools we have in the box. Similarly, we are extremely satisfied that private recovery now gives the state a chance to recover debts from foreign students who have not paid their su-debts. That is also common sense. The next part of the proposal, which deals with the abolition of the right to deduct interest on amounts receivable during recovery, is also a positive one. However, I would like to highlight a slightly different aspect of that point from the previous rapporteurs. I am also thinking, in fact, that it is contrary to ordinary morality, that you can both build up a solid debt to the public sector, often with no intention of winding it up, and then be rewarded with a deduction. So just as it is not possible to deduct the residual tax, it makes sense that there should also be no interest relief for the other public debt. As I have said, this not only makes sense in relation to the relief of the administrative burden, but it also makes very good sense in relation to the general sense of justice. If you consistently build up public debt and do not care about paying back the money to the community, you should not be rewarded with an interest rate deduction. The public does not have to reward its debtors for their guilt. This kind of regulation will further undermine confidence in the tax administration and trust in each other. In addition to being a tax rapporteur, I am also a municipal rapporteur, and I am talking a lot with the municipalities, also about recovery and public debt. Several financial managers have told me that they experience that people have discovered that the government is bad at recovering debts, so they put the car where it suits them, drop the child money and ignore the collections. In addition, a single employee was told in an insulting message from a citizen that the municipality could simply pass the recovery on to the Debt Authority, understood that at least nothing more would happen in that case. The fact that a large group of Danes who have built up a huge debt to the public sector over several years should not also be rewarded with an interest allowance for the debt is a matter of common sense. That is why the Radical Left warmly supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121174418	Thank you. And there are no comments. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party, is the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121174426	Thank you, President. With the bill, the government will abolish the right of deduction for paid recovery interest. First of all, I just want to say that the SF takes note of the Elder Case's concern that the bill will end with an extra charge to debtors who pay their debts and interest. That is a relevant objection that we will be discussing. In addition, the government wants to allow municipal-owned utilities to use a private debtor to recover debts from bad payers. Today it is the case that these utilities are obliged to apply the tax system of recovery, which has not exactly been recovered very much from the debt. It is not right for municipal-owned utilities to be put at a disadvantage than privately owned ones because they are forced to make use of a public offer which does not work. Therefore, SF can agree with the Government's desire to equalise municipal owned and privately owned utilities. However, if we do not simply support the draft law as it stands, it is because there are doubts about the part relating to the ability of the utilities to cover their costs of recovering debts. The Government proposes that there should be an opportunity to impose recovery costs on the debtors. At the same time, in the hearing, the Minister states that the debtors must be taken into account so that they do not incur significantly more recovery costs. SF wants a review of which types of private recovery costs the bill specifically allows the municipal-owned utilities to pass on to customers, including how the option depends on the type of claim and when the claim arose. And is it correct to understand that if a municipal utility company chooses private recovery, then the claims maintain their public-law nature and can be recovered directly by the court? And does this mean that in practice the utilities concerned cannot pass on private recovery costs to customers? SF wants answers to these questions, and only then can we take a clear position on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121174626	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121174634	Thank you. As Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, cannot be present today, I have promised to read this speech and present the position of Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten was included in the agreement to strengthen recovery, and it included, among other things, the following: in the contract: the parties agree that municipalities and utilities can take over several recovery tasks. The Ministry of Taxation will therefore begin discussions on concrete possible models with KL and the utilities and later submit the results of the discussions to the parties to the agreement. The parties to the agreement agree that private operators can be involved in the discharge of future debt recovery, but that concrete models should continue to be discussed in the light of what is economically viable, commercially feasible and reasonable as well as legal certainty. The parties to the agreement note that the establishment of cooperation with private actors in carrying out the recovery task will be extremely complex at this stage due to the ongoing clean-up work. Once the data quality has been restored and it has been established that the remaining claims are enforceable, ready for recovery and converted to the new recovery system, the parties to the agreement will discuss the possibility of cooperation on the performance of the recovery task in selected areas with private actors, for example. If. debtors resident abroad, which is an area previously partially occupied by private operators. The reason for this reading from the original agreement is that it is necessary to have that context in relation to today's bill. Firstly, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten has agreed that we can look at where and to what extent it makes sense to involve private actors in the recovery. As a starting point, therefore, we agree with the draft law on the use of private actors for the recovery of debts abroad. However, we are very sceptical about the fact that municipal owned utilities are going to use private debt collection companies to recover the debt. We can't see that it's gonna help us any further. It appears in the bill more as if you are building a parallel system to deal with claims that run via private debt collections also those that run under the auspices of the Debt Authority. Even if you are committed for a period of time, if you choose private debt collection, you can choose back again and come under the Debt Board. The Enhedslisten is concerned that we are making life more difficult for the Debt Authority at a critical time, when in a large number of other bills we are trying to make things simpler for the Debt Board. In addition, Enhedslisten wishes to know whether the data quality and the legal force of the claims are actually at a level where it makes sense to have a private debt collection company. Secondly, there is something fundamentally crazy about it, because we could solve a large part of the problem very simply and without having to have multi-faceted systems of both private debt collection and public debt collection, namely by simply strengthening public recovery by staffing. Enhedslisten has long shouted and screamed at several years' work for manual recovery. Thirdly, the draft law's observations state: "Scalders whose utilities have opted for private recovery may therefore be subject to both public and private recovery for the claims of utilities against the debtor, since the claims which are or have been in the course of recovery from the debt recovery authority are proposed to remain under public recovery and the debtor may have debts also recovered by the debt recovery authority. Such debtors will therefore be able to experience increased recovery costs. It is just basically not right that you do not get the same treatment depending on whether you live in a place where the local utility has chosen private or public recovery. Then we know in the Enhedslisten that it says in the bill that you will be able to read whether your utility company has a private debt collection or not, but it is of course no use if you are someone who has got into financial problems, because then it is only in Enhedslisten's opinion that this bill is too arbitrary how to be dealt with afterwards. The Enhedslisten understands that the municipal utilities want a quick fix so they can get their money in the box. So it is also tempting for them to seek help from private collections, but there are simply too many problems by throwing themselves into it. This does not mean that Enhedslisten will not help the utilities. We will, but by hiring some more employees for manual recovery. As a starting point, Enhedslisten cannot support this bill. I'm sure sir. Rune Lund sends some questions and that he is looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175129	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175131	I regret that I am asking questions, because I know that it was on behalf of another rapporteur that the speech was read, but I would just like to mention that the passages read from an old text of the agreement are actually about something other than what we are discussing today. The text of the agreement that was read out is, of course, about finding out whether the old debts were legally enforceable, because something you do not know is legal or not, of course, you cannot transfer to any private person. This is about something quite different, and these are the debts of the future. For a long time, you choose to say that you can then choose either privately or in public. So it's actually two different things it's about. Then I would like to make another comment on this, namely whether the Enhedslisten cannot see that it is not really about building a parallel system, because the private debt recovery is there today. The privately owned utilities use it, other companies use it, so it's not really about creating anything. It's about using something. Well, we have a debt recovery today that doesn't work, and it can't get any worse than it is now. So why not use the options you have? That's what this is all about. It is a wish of the industry itself that says: we do not get our debts recovered, it does private ones, can we not have the same opportunities? So, can't the Enhedslisten also see the sense that you can actually also relieve the tax administration, i.e. the Debt Authority, by giving the opportunity to actually use someone who has some solutions that work? And then you can relieve the public until you get the opportunity to make it run.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175239	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175240	Unfortunately, I must disappoint the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and say that I simply find it difficult to give a clear answer to the question, as I am neither a tax rapporteur nor a member of the Committee on Taxation, but I am actually a substitute for Mr. Rune Lund today. But I can tell you so much that what we desperately want in the Enhedslisten is to upgrade the employees of the Debt Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175307	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175324	Thank you for the bill and thank you for the debate. We are in favour of the draft law, which serves as an improvement in the ability to recover debts. It must be both right and proper that it is possible to make it easier. The only concern we have is that there is revenue of 135 million. kr. to the Treasury, and we are not in favour of the Treasury having more money. That's why we'd like to hear the tax minister about what that money is for. Normally, it is a good principle that when you ask some parties to help raise money, as you do here, they are obtained by adopting a legislative proposal, so that you are allowed to spend that money as well. That's why I want to hear from the tax minister if he's willing to take that discussion. We think it would be good to not just sit and collect more taxes and then use them on a financial law with some completely different parties that may not even have been involved in adopting this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175425	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175435	Thank you for the floor. These are some good proposals that have been well dealt with in the relatively few consultation responses that have been given, and that is why we are prepared to support the legislative proposal as it envisages an effective and secure recovery system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175459	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175516	With L 64 we treat a mixed bag of candy. As a starting point for me, it is a little strange that these measures and so many are combined, but of course we are dealing with the proposal that has been put forward. The draft law contains five different points, and the first amendment concerns the possibility of flexibility for municipal-owned utilities in recovering debts, so that they can use private companies, just as private ones can. We welcome this in the New Citizens' Party, of course. Greater freedom in the public sector is a central part of New Citizens' policy, and this also applies, of course, to utilities. The second amendment opens up the possibility for public authorities to use private actors to recover debt from people abroad. We in the New Citizen also welcome this very much. It is deeply problematic that we have so many outstanding issues with people who have moved away from Denmark and who will not pay their share. The third change, on the other hand, is a major problem because it concerns the right to deduct interest on recovery. Here we are much more critical, because this is an increase in taxation and it is also a fundamental change in the way our tax practices are currently operating. When you look at the background to make this fundamental change in our tax practice, then it appears that the IRS has some IT systems that can't handle it. We'll have to ring the alarm bells there. We don't want an IRS that's being set up, depending on what some IT systems can handle. The next time we have a case, you go to the Chamber and say: Well, our IT system cannot handle this, so now we have to set up the tax system in a certain way. That is not how we want our tax system. It must be a political desire, it should not be, because there are some data people sitting there saying: our IT systems cannot solve the tasks. In addition, there is another problem. It is that it is indeed legislation with retroactive effect, because you will go back and look at 2018 and 2019, where you will also withdraw the deduction. We are also critical of this. Finally, there is also a revenue both for the state of 135 million. kr., but in fact also one for the municipalities of 115 million. kr. At this time. So, in total, it is a revenue of 250 million. kr. There we must also look at it, and I know we have had the debate in the past, where we were also positive about something from the tax minister, in other words where there was also an additional revenue. However, I share the view of Conservatives and must say: well, if we are to help in finding some money in the new citizens, we would also like to help ensure that this money, which comes from the citizens, also goes back to the citizens and not just goes back into the state's treasury or municipal funds. The fifth amendment is of a purely technical nature and we can of course support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175809	Thank you. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121175813	In the Liberal Alliance, we were also very willing to support this bill because we have helped to make an agreement that precedes the bill. This is, of course, especially the issue of improving recovery through the use of private collectors, private debt collection companies, both abroad and in the case of municipal utilities in Denmark. We would very much like to support that. But then something sneaks into this bill that we haven't seen before, and it's about removing an interest relief right. It provides revenue for the Treasury of 135 million. kr., and it is not as a result of a more effective recovery, but because one simply increases taxes in Denmark by removing a deduction that we have today. We would like to hear good arguments for doing so, and unlike the new citizens, I would also like to say that if you have a desire to set up IT systems in this area that must work, in order to make things easier for both the public and the public, you also sometimes have to be willing to change the tax rules themselves, because they have a complexity that is difficult to deal with by IT systems. And the removal of the complexity of our tax system is an objective in itself, because we have an excessively complex tax system, so if we can remedy it, while at the same time making it possible to have a higher level of IT-solution to the problems, it is not necessarily bad. But we need to take a closer look at this. I agree with the other rapporteurs who have said that when parties are involved in a change in the law, which provides revenue for the Treasury, it is also customary for those parties to take a stand together on how that revenue should be used best. So, of course, we expect that to happen in this matter too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180044	There are no comments. And that means it's the tax minister now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180053	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the debate. It is true that the legislative proposal we are debating today is based on an agreement adopted by a unanimous Parliament back in June 2017, namely the agreement to strengthen public debt collection. And we all know why it was necessary at all: it is the EFI system which, after all, collapsed de facto and which one had to do, among other things. to supplement with some initiatives that lie here. After all, we are still struggling with the recovery of the debt area. That's why the government, during these financial negotiations that are now, has put forward plans to set a total of 400 million. kr. to restore the debt area next year • 400 million. kr. It is a proper lump, but it is necessary, and it is of course also in this context that the bill should be seen. But thank you for receiving the bill. We can easily help to answer the questions that may come in committee, it goes without saying. However, to begin with, I would just like to say that we are both putting forward this draft law with the general justification for strengthening the debt area as such, but also because it is necessary to improve the possibilities for recovery abroad, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. At the same time, you can safely say that you want the municipal utilities to be able to choose private recovery rather than recovery from the Debt Authority. In order to ensure proper administration, it is also necessary to abolish the right to deduct interest on recovery. Finally, it is ensured that the Debt Board can finalise proceedings for the recovery of claims where there may have been undue recovery during the period of operation of the EFI. And, as I said, the bill has its starting point in the agreement that a unanimous Parliament reached back in June 2017. The review by the government of the acute IT problems of the tax administration in this area, i.e. the recovery area, has given us a real picture of the most acute problems, so that we are now able to get into work and get started on solving the problems. And that's why this bill is also an element in securing trust in the tax administration, that is to say it's being recreated. It is positive that the new IT system for recovery is largely developed now. The system must continue to develop, but it has actually succeeded and maintained to build a system roughly within the budget and according to the timetable in this area. On the other hand, there are challenges in connecting many of the public creditors to the system. It is also a discussion we have had in recent weeks. The survey also shows that the cleanup and reminder efforts are still not in place. That work must be done properly and it will take time, and to this day the reality is that we are paying an expensive price for trying to do things in the tax administration too superficially and too quickly in the past. We're not gonna make that mistake again. In order to support the clean-up work, there is a need to extend the current limitation period from 2021 to 2024, and this will give 3 more years to try to complete the clean-up. I expect, as I have also talked to several of the parties of the Danish Parliament, that we can table a bill on this in the spring. The survey also shows that there is a need to invest additionally in the recovery of the debt area as a whole. Therefore, as I said before, the government alone for 2020 has set aside as much as 400 million. kr. on the financial bill for that task, i.e. next year, in 2020. However, it is still necessary to have a comprehensive plan for the recovery of the debt and collection area, where we are also looking at preventive measures, simplification of rules and other elements. And we're going to discuss that plan in the broad circle of agreements we have in the Folketing about this area. But back to the bill we are discussing today. As has been suggested, recovery with the bill will be strengthened on several points and municipal utilities will have the opportunity to opt for private recovery of their claims. The proposed amendments shall take into account, inter alia: to strengthen the recovery of debts to debtors, including those residing abroad, so that the Debt Authority, by assuming a private creditor to assist in the recovery abroad, now has the opportunity, as it is said, to pass on the costs to the debtor. In addition, as I have said, it is proposed to abolish the right to deduct interest on the recovery of debts in the course of recovery. It is therefore countered by the fact that the debtors are granted the right to deduct interest paid in the wrong year of income. In addition, rules are proposed to enable the Debt Board to finalise proceedings for the recovery of claims where there may have been improper recovery, i.e. during the old debt system EFI's period of operation. But thank you again for the debate. I look forward to the discussion of the bill in the parliamentary committee, so hopefully the bill can be put in place, as it is based mainly on a very broad agreement made here in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180649	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180652	I would like to thank the Minister for his speech, with which I largely agree. I would like to ask the Minister about the annual revenue of 135 million. kr. As far as I can read from the draft law, some of the additional revenue will go to the municipalities, but can the Minister not say a few words about how the Minister envisages this additional revenue to be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180721	I mean, the additional revenue is included, among other things. In the current financial law negotiations and in the financial law negotiations, a wide range of parties are, after all, laying the foundations for investing 400 million. kr. in the reconstruction of the debt area next year. It then provides a basis for the discussions in which we in the broad debt agreement, in which the Left also sits, can have discussions, we can continue this autumn and also in the spring. So you can say that that is the context, and I think it is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180759	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180801	So just for the sake of my understanding, I would like to know whether the Minister here is asking a large number of parties in the Folketing in the broad circle of agreements to finance parts of the Finance Act which the Minister does not make in the broad circle of agreements, but in other words most likely only to land with the red parties. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180827	This money is part of the room for manoeuvre on which the Finance Act is based, and this room for manoeuvre helps to pay the bill for us to spend 400 million. kr. in the area of debt reconstruction next year. So that connection is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180844	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180846	I should like to know whether it is customary for the government to use the proceeds, so that it is included as a leeway in some financial law negotiations without a proposal being adopted. This proposal will probably not be adopted until there is a financial law, which means that we are spending some money in a financial law that we do not know if we are going to adopt a proposal in relation to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180914-2	I think that is a process that has been seen before under previous governments too. So it's not that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180925	But I can therefore criticise such a way of spending money before you have it. It is now a healthy premise that you have the money before you start using it in a Finance Act. That is what we think in the New Citizens' Party. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister whether he will be open to change this recovery, which simplifies it so that the IT systems can handle it, but at the same time makes it revenue neutral. In other words, we are creating a system that solves the problems, which simplifys them and ensures that the IT systems can deal with this, but at the same time we make it revenue-neutral.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121180959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181000	Where did the proceeds that came out of this come from? Yes, it comes basically from what is needed here, i.e. a clean-up task. That is, of course, the common challenge, namely that our debt system has, in popular terms, collapsed; and now we are rebuilding it. This is a huge task, and there we have a very good agreement which meets and which is now going to discuss what more needs to be done. We all agree that there are huge challenges here. The revenue is included in the Finance Act and the financing of initiatives is included there. And we can easily figure out how to look at it; we can easily drill it out, but it is a well-known procedure, as has been seen before.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181050	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181052	It is interesting that it should finance the financial law agreement that the government is working on together with the red parties. I understood that it was not certain that the SF would vote for this bill. And I hear from behind that Enhedslisten said the same thing. Does this mean that if they enter into the financial law agreement with the government, they will at the same time commit themselves to voting in favour of this which is intended to finance the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181125-2	That is, of course, some of what the questioner should have asked the rapporteurs of the parties while they were standing up here. It's kind of hard for me to say what's behind it. But the government's position is that this bill must, of course, be implemented, so we are putting it forward. And this helps to form the basis for us to fund the things that are included in the Finance Act, including, for example, a very, very large recovery of the debt area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181151	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181152	Well, I could not ask the rapporteurs the question which was triggered by the Minister's speech and by the Minister's answer to the question here. It was the Minister who said that this bill is intended to finance the Finance Act which is intended to be made with the Red Parties. Then I just ask: does that mean that the red parties who have been up here on the platform and have said that they are not sure that they will vote for it? So this bill will in fact be bound to vote for that bill if they enter into a financial agreement with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181224	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen knows very well that financial law negotiations are not going on here on this platform; they are going on elsewhere nearby. So it is a little difficult for me to answer what points of view are being put across the tables. Basically, however, this is a healthy and sensible legislative proposal, which is about us clearing up the very major problems in which the debt has unfortunately ended up, because for too many years there has been a lack of investment in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181250	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181252	Then I would like to ask in a different way about what was just asked about. If the Minister can then confirm that there is not necessarily a majority in favour of this bill, then he can also confirm that 135 million are then missing. kr. on the Finance Act? The bourgeois parties have not committed themselves to supporting the bill, unless we have clarification of the proceeds, and two parties from the other side have also expressed reservations about the bill, then not 135 million are missing. kr. on the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181326	We shall see when we come to the vote. This is the first reading of the bill, and that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov mentions, we take the committee procedure afterwards, and I am quite convinced that a majority here in Parliament will hopefully see that this is a good legislative proposal, because basically it is about cleaning up debt, which in total, for too many years has been left behind and which has not been invested enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181349	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181351	That is all true, but it is the case that the government has apparently put forward a budget law which lacks 135 million. kr., which a majority in the Folketing has not agreed to vote in favour of obtaining, and I certainly find that interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181415	I think that if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov looks at what, for example, the government he himself has been involved in in the past has done of exercises that remind him of this, he will see something he can recognize. That's why I hope it hasn't come as a surprise all the time that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has also stood on this platform as a minister, albeit in another area, but I think it will come as no surprise that this procedure is also taking place under this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181438	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181441	Thank you. Would the Minister not just admit that this is normal practice, that if you make a budget law, you take the piss with the sweet, which means that you also vote in favour of financing proposals, even though you may think that it may be a little awkward, because you simply do not think they are a good idea, that is to say that it is an agreement that can be good and bad? So if you make a finance agreement where this is a financing element, isn't it very obvious to say that SF and Enhedslisten are also involved in voting this through? In other words, it would be a little strange for everyone else to vote through the government's funding proposals without the parties to the agreement doing so themselves. The Minister must admit that it would be quite an innovation if we were not to vote in favour of the proposals which give rise to funding as a financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181524	That is, of course, a key point, which is why I am quite confident that, for example, how the room for manoeuvre is being used to finance this financial law, which is now being negotiated, is something with which the Minister of Finance has a handle and a handle. This is part of the scope for funding the Finance Act, which, for example, helps to ensure that we can invest as much as 400 million. kr. next year in the improvement and expansion of the debt area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181553	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181555	Well, I'm glad you think that's a good point, and then we'll come back to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's question about whether you can't confirm as a minister that you expect SF and Enhedslisten to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181607	It's up to Parliament's parties to finally decide what they think of this bill. This money comes as a result of the fact that the government has undertaken an increased effort to restore the entire debt area, and what is the decision of the individual party in this context is, of course, entirely free for each party. We are quite convinced that this is the right way to go, and we are absolutely sure that this will help to restore the debt area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181635	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no more comments. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191121181650	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 22 November 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
