ParlaMint-DK_20191011100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: René Christensen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 11 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reducing the discharge of plastic into the oceans). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100026	Negotiations are open. Sir. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100037	Thank you very much, and thank you for the floor. This is a legislative proposal with technical adjustments to EU substances that have already been introduced. Of course, we want to support the proposal, and I do not imagine that it will give rise to the major political battles. The adjustments are made because the European Commission has announced that parts of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive have not been correctly introduced. Moreover, the EU Justice Office of the Ministry of Justice agrees with that assessment. Firstly, the draft law contains a purely technical division of the concept of consumer, so that the concept of consumer in the Marketing Act is equivalent to that of the directive on unfair commercial practices which lies behind the law. A new provision will also be introduced to ensure that the legal state and consumer protection at home remain the same as it has been up to now. For example, in the consultation answers it appears that the Consumer Council considers it essential for consumer rights to maintain the existing legal status. It is our view that this is the case, and that is what matters to us. It is also stated in the consultation answers that the division of the consumer concept will make the law less read-friendly, as it will thus differ from the consumer concept in the other Danish legislation. We consider this to be a relevant objection, but we believe it is sensible to assess the basis for a convergence of the concept of consumer when we know the outcome of the Competition and Consumer Protection Authority's study of consumer concepts across consumer-oriented regulation. Secondly, the legislative proposal involves a legislative change, so that the considerations that need to be emphasised when assessing whether traders have used aggressive commercial practices are shifted from the legislative notes to the legislative text itself. The considerations are the same, so it does not move on to the state of law either. Thirdly, the draft law updates the definition of consent in the Marketing Act so that it is consistent with the definition in the Data Protection Regulation. The definition of consent is already interpreted in accordance with the definition in the Data Protection Regulation, so in practice this part of the legislative proposal has no impact on the legal situation either. Fourthly, the legislative proposal aims to ensure that aggressive or improper commercial practices are punished. As a result, the bill makes an unintended change in the legal situation regarding aggressive or improper commercial practices that arose while the current Marketing Act was being considered. Overall, therefore, this is an EU substance that has already been introduced. Now all we need are the last details. It seems to me that the political phase is over, and we shall then have to deal with the last technical corrections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100327	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Tommy Ahlers, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100337	Thank you for the floor. It's not the first time I've been standing up here, but it's the first time I've been standing here as an elected representative, and it's a little special. And thanks to everyone who thought it was a good idea for me to stand here. Now that you are standing here for the first time as an elected official, you might well have thought of a legislative proposal which gave rise, as it were, to a proper dumb talk about concepts of freedom, about the rule of the people, about democracy and the free initiative. But I do not think that is quite what is being proposed, and perhaps it would also be a little too much to ask the Minister and the government to organise their legislative catalogue according to who happened to have made the debut here on the platform. What we have to deal with today is L 32, and the bill will ensure the correct implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive and, at the same time, will correct an unintentional amendment to the Penal Code. In the Left, we think it is absolutely crucial that we have a marketing law that is simple and supports good and uniform consumer relations across the EU's borders. With the first reading of this bill, we are taking a step towards an even clearer marketing law. We get a divided consumer concept; we get the definition of what aggressive commercial practices are, led from the comments and directly into the law; we get the consent requirement updated so that it is in accordance with the data protection scheme; and then we also get the penalty sanctioned section 20 of the law. 3. The Left likes to have directives properly implemented here in Denmark. But I would also like to take this opportunity to say that we must always be aware that we are not overimplementing here in Denmark. For over-implementation of EU rules will harm Danish companies and this can hamper growth. So now that the European Commission writes to the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice or in the Ministry of Industry and says that this is not properly implemented, fortunately, the Ministry of Justice always tends to get things sorted out quickly. And we're the doll in the implementation class. But I would just like to ask that, when this happens, when they make representations, we might reply: we actually think we have and then it might be that the Commission replied: well, you could have just said that. However, after all, we are of course taking seriously the European Commission and the Ministry of Justice's assessment of whether the directive is properly implemented, and we look forward to the work of the committee where it can be ensured that our businesses and consumers are not faced with over-implementation and unnecessary trouble. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100602	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100606	I'm not gonna cheat on Mr. Knox. Tommy Ahlers to have a discussion on the slightly higher blades, even when we discuss the implementation of EU legislation. So I would like to say, first of all, that consent is always good and that it is particularly good to have it established. So that's one thing. Secondly, we are living right now at a time when it can be said that there are strong forces at stake to tear up international agreements and file on the basis of the agreement we have and as a socialist, I would like to see it sometimes so slightly different that we can make agreements with each other and act across borders and respect the fact that an agreement is an agreement. That is why I think we can pay tribute to the system we have today when we live in a time when agreements are not always respected and when there are some very powerful players who do not respect the agreements we make with each other, whether they are the Paris Agreement or international trade agreements. So does the rapporteur not agree with that, despite the standard replica that we should not overimplement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100717	Yeah, I totally agree with that. But I also agree with the assessment that has been made here in several places that this does not change the state of law, and that means that the assessment is also that it has been implemented correctly already. And then I would say that if we are finally to lift ourselves up to the very big blade, then I agree with the rapporteur's comments that we must, of course, live up to our obligations and that the internal market and international agreements are a huge advantage for a small country like Denmark. So thank you for the opportunity to just lift us up there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100746	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100756	In any case, it can be said that the legislative proposals before us today in the Danish Parliament on the subject of the Minister for Industry are such a fair trial, both for the Minister and for many of the rapporteurs. This is not a legislative proposal which brings with it very great expressions of concern from many of the parties of the Folketing. As has been said earlier by the rapporteurs from the Social Democrats and the Left, this is a draft law which will have to implement a number of small technical amendments to the Marketing Act. The Danish People's Party considers the changes to be in favour of Danish consumer interests. We also consider it to be in favour of free market formation and general commercial practices here in Denmark. So it is not for the reasons outlined in the draft law, namely that it is for the sake of a European directive that we support this bill. It is because it is in favour and in favour of Danish interests. So we are in favour and can support the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100907	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011100922	Thank you. And thank you to the previous rapporteurs for the review from up here. And then it is always nice to come after the Danish People's Party and at least agree that we can support the bill. For, of course, it is important that we rectify the unintended changes in the legal provisions of the law, that the concept of consumer be adapted to the directive without changing the legal situation, and that the definition of the consent requirement be brought into line with the data protection regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101003	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. And we move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101023	Perhaps I would just briefly repeat what I have to say to Mr Seligman. Tommy Ahlers, otherwise these debates on the implementation of EU directives or the organisation of them may well become a bit boring and very processive, and I really think that is a pity. When we have marketing rules, it is, of course, about the relationship between commercial operators and us as consumers, and you ask what is right and right. This is not just technology, because it is about the relationship between state and companies and citizens, and what is really fair rules about how we interact with each other, how far we have to go in relation to marketing, and whether we can get right to the edge where we actually manipulate. We had a discussion a few days ago about marketing on Facebook as a social media • about how to act with children in relation to gaming ads etc. This is not just technology, because it is about how we agree with each other, that one must, on the one hand, advertise one's product as a company and, on the other hand, how far one has to go to influence us and each other as consumers. We live in a world where borders are sometimes abolished, and we can also discuss how boundless a society we have in terms of goods and services, while there are people who move around cross-borders and cross-borders. But that is another discussion. That is why it makes very good sense for us to coordinate some of these things at EU level, because we are dealing with each other, and it is also a very great good thing. I think that we may see it as a greater good in these times when there is a great deal of uncertainty in the world, namely that trade is also really, really important in terms of trust and in terms of linking each other across the board. This proposal may not entirely justify the rather loud speech, but sometimes I think it should, because we should remind each other why we are doing what we are doing in here and why we are implementing these things, and it is not because the big, bad EU says we should, but because there is actually a very good reason for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101248	I should like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101303	After this very committed speech, we do not have much to add. I am speaking on behalf of Victoria Velasquez, our rapporteur in this area. We can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101315	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments, and then it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101327	Thank you. I always get a little skeptical when it comes to technical changes, and these are even several technical changes at once; then you have to go through them all very carefully. I understand that after a great deal of work on a new marketing law, which was made about 11⁄2 years ago, there is, of course, a need to look at some changes, because sometimes you can make some inappropriate things, and you discover that. We just have to be aware that when these changes are there, it is of course also a burden on users with new reading material, and when the legal texts become longer and more complicated, without really changing the applicable law, it is sometimes really hard to see the scam. The change in the concept of consumer is due to dialogue with the European Union. And that's fine, but the change being proposed here doesn't exactly make it easier to navigate the law. The EU's more narrow definition means that we need to add the Danish definition, in other words, like a new provision in the law, and I really think this is a bad thing, and I would therefore call for us in Denmark to make our own assessment of how EU directives are implemented most appropriately instead of just following the directives. After all, it is still allowed to run away our own practice within the flexibility that applies to the implementation of directives. What I am really trying to say is that we do not necessarily have a duty to change, and sometimes we should not. Having said that, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill, but in the committee work wants to focus on what changes are actually absolutely necessary and then get the rest removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101502	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011101514	As has been mentioned several times, this proposal does not alter the content of the Marketing Act. The essence of the proposal is the principle of whether we should allow officials in Brussels to decide, not only how proposals for EU rules should look, but also how we implement EU directives. The EU information's own website states: "A regulation is a binding act directly applicable in the Member States. This means that the EU has decided how the Danish courts and authorities should apply the regulation. That is not the case with directives. Directives are acts establishing a common objective to be achieved in all EU Member States. And then it says: "It is up to the countries themselves to decide how they want to implement the directive and achieve the goal... Unlike a regulation, therefore, a directive provides a more open framework for how the act should be interpreted and implemented in each Member State. • The changes proposed here by the government about the concept of consumer and aggressive commercial practices are proposed solely because some in the European Commission's official apparatus believe that the way in which we have implemented the so-called directive on unfair commercial practices has not been done in the right way. We are therefore talking about a law that has been drawn up on the basis of a draft from a Danish committee of experts consisting of professors, officials, organisations and practitioners, and where the committee of experts, among other things. has had the task of ensuring that their proposals comply with EU rules. Everyone in the committee had agreed at the time and it was 2 years ago that the draft was in line with the rules for proper EU implementation. The proposal was subsequently put forward and adopted by the Folketing. As I have said, this was only two years ago, and I wonder if the Justice Office of the European Union was also involved in approving the proposal at the time? Now, after the European Commission officials have spoken, the EU Justice Office of the Ministry of Justice suddenly no longer believes that the Danish Marketing Act is within the flexibility of the Danish Parliament in implementing EU directives. It makes it a little hard to trust the Justice Department's assessment. Instead, let us try to assess for ourselves whether what the government is proposing here, which is mentioned several times as a technicality, makes sense, because a law must, of course, do so both for those subject to it and for us who must defend it and vote for or against it. If we start with the most obvious problem with the proposal, namely the proposed division of the concept of consumer: does it make sense that the definition of a consumer by the law itself is not, after all, what the law is supposed to mean by a consumer? No. Does it make sense that the concept of consumer in the Marketing Act should now be defined differently from that in other Danish laws where the concept of consumer is defined, for example. the consumer contract law and the purchase law, even though the understanding of the consumer concept is intended to be the same? No. Frankly, I believe that one should be an official in the European Union or perhaps an official in the EU Justice Office of the Ministry of Justice in order to think that this makes sense. It is immediately more technical with the second proposal, which comes from the officials of the European Commission and which the government has also laid down flat. This is a case in point of so-called aggressive commercial practices, but it raises the more fundamental and important discussion of who decides how Denmark should make its laws. How much should be in the legislative text, and how much can be more appropriate in the legislative notes? The Marketing Act already states that a trader must not use harassment, unlawful coercion, violence or undue influence in his commercial practices. It's short, and it's accurate. The current legal notes then elaborate on what needs to be taken into account when making this assessment. However, it is also clear from the legislative notes that other things have to be taken into account. This is all entirely in line with Danish legislative practice, but now the Commission officials think that we should move some, but not all, legislative notes into the legislative text. This will make a brief and precise legislative provision a very long one, by the way, using a language which is incomprehensible to most citizens, businesses and associations covered by the law, because the text is a direct copy of the EU directive. I can see from the consultation answers that have come to this part of the draft law that there are differences of opinion as to whether it is appropriate or not in the particular case, but for me this is about the principle. New citizens believe that the right to Denmark itself to decide how to implement EU directives is essential. EU rules are laid down by officials in Brussels, but how we implement the directives we decide for ourselves, and that should not be shaken. Therefore, New Citizens cannot support the bill in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102025	Since there are no brief comments, we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102039	I hardly dare say it, but it is, if nothing else, a technical bill. I am not saying that it does not matter. I would like to emphasise that. It's not a debate I dare throw myself into. There are some concerns, I think we should turn around in committee, and some of them, among others, are of particular concern. Danish Industry raises in their hearing response. They believe that it would complicate Danish legislation if we had different consumer definitions in different consumer laws, and there is a little such a legal dispute as to whether the definition we have in Denmark is contrary to what the directive dictates, so to speak. Danish Industry does not think so, and it is rather unclear whether the Ministry of Business thinks so. So I think that these are some of the things that we need to clarify in the course of the committee procedure, just as we need to clarify whether these requirements for the assessment of aggressive commercial practices are already contained in the preparatory work for the Marketing Act, as claimed by the Danish Industry. So, in the light of the small things that can be clarified in committee, we will decide whether or not we support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102157	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102209	Thank you for your comments and also thank you for your very broad support for the draft law. After all, we came up a little far and high in the air with the great discussions of principle in connection with a proposal which is, of course, a little technical somewhere. It is a proposal, as has quite rightly been said several times, aimed at making minor amendments to the Marketing Act, and this is done, among other things. to ensure the proper implementation of the underlying EU regulation. And in addition, as has also been said earlier, we are correcting an unintentional change in the criminal code of the law that arose in connection with the legal amendment made in 2017. The draft law contains, among other things: a new division of the concept of consumer so that the definition of a consumer is brought into line with the EU legal definition, which covers only natural persons. This amendment is, as it appears, something the Commission has asked for in order to achieve the correct implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive. A new separate provision specifies that a legal person acting primarily outside his profession is treated in the same way as a consumer in the law. This will ensure that no changes are made to the legal state in force. In addition, the law is amended so that the considerations involved in assessing whether an economic operator has used aggressive commercial practices are directly reflected in the legislative text. Today it appears from the legislative notes, as has been said by the European Commission, and that is why it is now being corrected. In addition, the definition of consent and the consent requirement of the Marketing Act are updated to bring the definitions into line with the Data Protection Regulation, which entered into force after the adoption of the current Marketing Act in 2017. At the same time, as I said at the outset, an unintended amendment to the criminal code of the law is corrected, so section 20 of the Marketing Act. 3, whether aggressive or improper commercial practices between traders are again legally punished and subject to private accusations. Finally, references to the regulation on enforcement cooperation between European consumer authorities, which is replaced by a revised regulation on 17 January 2020. I think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said it very well. This has to be done because it is in the favour and pleasure of Danish interests that we put order in the pencil house, I almost said, and that we ensure that the legal state remains the same. Then the rapporteur of the Left raised the question of over-implementation. I just feel the need to make it clear once again that I share the need for us not to make unnecessary over-implementation in Denmark unless there are particular reasons that really speak for it, and in the government we have combined the Implementation Council and the Enterprise Forum for simpler rules to become the EU and regulatory forum of the business sector, which is precisely what is intended here. In the specific draft law here there is neither overimplementation nor underimplementation, for the sole reason that the legal situation remains the same in Denmark. All you can say is a change is this with section 20. 3 which is now being punished, but that is what was meant by the earlier, and it is then brought on the track as it should be. Then Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party had many good points, including this reading-friendliness thing and that we should be careful not to change this too quickly. We are going to look again at the Marketing Act, I think; it is already in the maps of the law catalogue in the second context. And we always have to keep an eye on that. The answer to over-implementation also applies to the Conservative People's Party. And then there is the reason why this is being done quite uncritically; I think the rapporteur said that. Should we not also sometimes just stop and see if we have a different or own position in Denmark? That's how I think the words fell. And this is something that comes after there has also been a European judgment, and it slightly limits the movement that exists in relation to what is being demanded of the Conservative People's Party. Then there was a longer speech from New Citizens who is critical and who, at least immediately, cannot vote in favour of the bill. I hope that the work of the committee can bring us to the same side, because if I am going to tease a little, it may turn out to be a bit of a blow in the air. These are positions of principle, and the rapporteur also says so, in other words, that this is the principle of what is really at the heart of New Citizens' arguments in this matter. But all the time that the legal situation remains the same in Denmark, it was certainly not here that I would have taken the big fundamental debate. I also feel that with a little glimpse in my eye you can say that if you could understand what is in the legislative notes, you can understand it when it is in the legislative text. So I do not share the view that this should in principle be very problematic. On the contrary, I think it is good to have the legislation we have in order and to ensure that it is brought in when, among other things, there is one. We're gonna get a verdict and we're gonna get inquiries about something. As long as, as in this case, we have ensured that the state of law remains unchanged, I think it is quite right to do so. And I am pleased to note a broad support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102831	There are brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102834	Thank you for the floor. When this is a matter of principle for us in New Citizens, it is partly because it is a matter of whether you should just lie down flat when EU officials ask that we not only interpret EU directives into Danish context, but that we should write them off directly. But it is also about the principle that citizens must, of course, be able to understand a legal text. It has been in principle for Denmark as far back as Jutland's Law, as I remember. That is why it is in principle for us, and this is both about moving too much text into the legal provision itself, but mainly about confusing the concept of consumer. Against this background, I have to ask the Minister whether the Minister believes that it makes sense to have legislation if it is otherwise drafted as it stands here, where the concept of consumer is different in this one Danish law than it is in the other Danish law. And does the Minister not think that this complicates it unnecessarily for readers of the law and those subject to the law, i.e. the Danish people and us who are under Danish law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011102948	No, I mean, I'm not worried about it, and I'm not for the simple reason that it's exactly a retention of the state that applies in Denmark. So I am not worried about it and, as I said before, if you can understand the concept of consumer as it was written earlier, then you can understand it now too. Because it's the same legal state that's in this. In fact, I am trying to recognise this, and I understand that we can have different fundamental approaches to the EU system and the regulation that comes from the European Union and, as I also said to Mr. Tommy Ahlers, we must be critical, and we must not overimplement unnecessarily in Denmark. But neither do we here. Well, we're not over-implementing or under-implementing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103042	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund for 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103043	It's been two years since a committee of experts made this law. It was professors, practitioners who avail themselves of the law, it was the EU Justice Office of the Ministry of Justice, and those people have estimated that this law was in line with EU law. Now they say that we have to lay down flat because the European Commission brings a raised index finger, knowing that in Denmark we have the right to decide for ourselves how to implement the law. Does the government believe that there must be other conditions for implementing EU directives in Danish legislation in the future, in relation to what has done in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103133	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103134	No, I think we should think about it, and so do we. We should not make unnecessary over-implementation so there must be some heavy consideration that speaks for it and that is not the case here either. However, it is clear that when you are approached by the European Commission and when there are judgments in the European Court of Justice, we must, of course, deal with it. And we do so in a way that I think is intelligent, and I am glad that the Folketing is also involved, so that we retain the legal status that is in force, with the exception of the criminal clause which should, of course, be
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103210	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103212	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I have a question which also goes a little bit on what Mrs Pernille Vermund asked about about the concept of consumer. Because if we adopt this bill, it will be the case that the Marketing Act has a consumer concept that differs from other consumer-oriented laws. It says in the consultation answer that I think is positive that the Danish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency is conducting a study of the consumer concept across legislation. I would like to ask the Minister when such a study is expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103248	I do not know today, I might as well say, but I would like to come back to that. I may have misunderstood the question, but what I was trying to answer was just the legal situation. I just think it is essential to insist that the concept of consumers and the state of law surrounding it do not change by the way we administer the law now. However, I would very much like to return to the committee in writing on the precise date when we know when it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103317	Sir. Tommy Ahlers, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103318	I agree that the legal situation does not change, but the definition is changed because we are now going to a divided concept where we say that in one paragraph we only define it as natural persons, and in another paragraph we say that it also applies to legal persons who act outside their main field of activity. This is a change in the concept of consumers, which is why we are looking forward to the study and would like it not to be too long after we have amended the marketing law so that we can, like it, have a one-way concept.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103346	The minister? No. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103348	Thank you. I was a little provoked when the Minister agreed to Mr. Tommy Ahler's galley around overimplementation. I really think it is a little sick that we often have in this Parliament that instead of saying whether there is something we are politically for or against or think is good or bad, we are talking about over-implementation or under-implementation. I think that is simply devastating in relation to the debate. We have many things where Denmark goes further than what directives say. We have been a pioneer in relation to hormone disruptors in toys for children because it is really, really harmful. Then you can say that we are overimplementing, but we are doing so because we think it is right to go further. We are also over-implementing in relation to support for entrepreneurship, something that I know Mr. Tommy Ahlers is really into it. Why are we doing this? Because we think it is important to support entrepreneurship. We are also overimplementing in the field of foreigners, where New Civil and Danish People's Party will certainly appreciate that we as a country there go further. We do this because we in the Folketing think we should go further. Sometimes we also go too far, but we have to take that discussion here and say: what do we think is important, and is there a political majority in the Folketing that chooses one way or another? Therefore, can we not stop talking about over-implementation and say whether we think that a proposal goes too far in relation to consumer protection or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103508	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103510	It is simply nice, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that we can raise it to those fundamental levels, and I am actually very happy to participate, because I am also a little happy if I have provoked a little. In fact, I think that in some cases there is a risk of over-implementation, which is unnecessary and which thus becomes burdensome for an industry that has to live with it and where we may be doing a little with its eyes closed or unconscious that it will be an over-implementation. Of course, rules can be made in Denmark where we go further, and the rapporteur himself gave a lot of good examples. We have also based on the government's view that there may be conditions of consumer protection, of the green, of the environment, or of workers' rights, etc., where we think it is also important here that we have the courage to show a way forward, and there are many other examples that can emerge. This applies to the present government, and this also applies to the previous government, and there will be examples of this. I just think we should be careful where it becomes unnecessary and it will be something that we have not been active in. There, too, we must dare to be critical and self-critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103613	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103615	I agree, and this applies, of course, to the implementation of EU legislation, as is the case with Danish legislation. Sometimes we have also written Danish legislation together in an inappropriate way, where it is not even a question of right-left or political disagreements, but where we simply impose a bureaucracy which is not good for anyone. So that's not what we're talking about. We are actually talking about the fact that there is a disagreement in the Chamber and that then there are some who say that we are now overimplementing because we really disagree with what we are discussing. But then let's say you disagree or you're in favour. We in the SF are in favour of increased consumer protection, and we think we will get that with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103655	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103657	Now, sir. Tommy Ahlers doesn't have the opportunity to speak again, so I don't know if I should defend it. However, I would like to say that I also believe that there may be the political view that over-implementation in itself is something that needs to be monitored as a concept, and I kind of share that somewhat along the way. Because that is an expression of the fact that it sometimes happens where it wasn't really intended, and I think we can find each other in this Chamber, and then we sometimes have to fight some fights. When the government and SF and others want something in the field of consumer protection that goes further, we will take that debate if anyone disagrees with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103728	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103743	The debate is open. Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103754	After all, it was a cozy Friday morning, and it is nice that we can swing a little higher than we may sometimes do. I would also like to thank you for the floor on this matter. Here again we are talking about adjustments to already introduced EU legislation, again it is technology, more than it is politics, and again the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. The bill adjusts some elements of the Procurement Act which, according to the Commission, have not been properly introduced. These are purely technical changes in which parts are moved from legal notes to legal texts, and then there are four amendments where the wording is corrected to correspond to the wording of the Procurement Directive. I note, for example, that the main trade union organisation is positive about elements of the bill and that the consultation has not, in general, caused any greater concern. Against this background, and because of the technical consequences of a political decision that has already been taken, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103853	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011103906	Thank you. It's great to feel the energy in here. I already love this platform. L 33 is basically about ensuring that the Procurement Act is fully in line with the Procurement Directive, and the European Commission has set out in its letter of formal notice a number of points where it is assessed that it is not properly implemented in Denmark. In the Left, we are very much in favour of the rules of the game being clear for public procurement. This ensures the procurement law, which, as you know, is based on the EU Procurement Directive. When we spend money here, we must ensure that we buy in the best possible way, and we also owe it to the companies involved in the tender that the competition takes place openly and freely, and that the best company with the best bid wins the task. This ensures the procurement law and ensures the procurement directive. That is why we are also listening when the Commission considers that this is not being properly implemented in Denmark. As we have just had a discussion about under the previous draft law, it is still important that we think about how we implement, so that we not only make rules for the sake of the rules, but also take a critical view when some others say that we have to do it in a certain way. In this case, we agree and therefore also support the bill. However, as is also noted in the consultation answers, it is inappropriate if the Procurement Act is revised at short intervals, because it may give rise to some conversion costs. Now this bill is primarily of a purely technical nature without significant legal changes, and that is why we hope it will not give rise to conversion costs, but we think it is a discussion that we should also discuss in committee. As I said, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104039	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104050	After all, the legislative proposal itself is not the reason for us to have the big screenshots. The Danish People's Party is also pleased that we will have technical changes in place that are beneficial to the procurement law. So, of course, we support the bill that has been tabled, but I would like to take this opportunity to say that this is now the second time that we in the Folketing have legal treatment of amendments to the procurement law, despite the fact that we are still waiting for a thorough review of Denmark's first procurement law, which I think was adopted back in 2016. It has pointed to a wide range of ills. This does not have much to do with these legal changes, but it has something to do with small and medium-sized Danish enterprises having much, much harder to accommodate and participate in pre-qualified tendering rounds, etc., among other things. because their turnover is too small, that they have not made profits in the last three years or whatever it may be. There are a lot of rich things that do not always open the doors of public enterprises to private SMEs. That is why we know that there is a task ahead of us. We have known for something that looks like one and a half to two years, namely that we must have the procurement law revised. And I also know that the new Minister for Business and Industry cannot go on saying that, but at least the last Minister for Business and Industry has been in consultation and so on. together with me and the Danish People's Party about some of the elements here that have to do with procurement legislation in relation to public procurement. So we would like to say, as we now have the opportunity to do so today, that it is fine with these little patches they are good and they are sensible, but that does not change the fact that we have been too slow and that we are, I have the opportunity to say that here today, and I have done so, and I hope that the Minister will follow up on this in relation to the evaluation that is going to take place. However, as the draft law stands, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104314	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104322	Thank you for the floor. It is vital that we get the legislation right, especially after the Commission's letter of formal notice has been received. It is therefore also necessary to make the changes now, although the law is being evaluated, and it is expected that that part will be ready by spring 2020, and we also look forward to that subsequent work in Radicals. This draft law is about the wording and the promotion of legislative notes to legislative texts, and in three cases these are provisions which have not been properly implemented at the present time, but where the change is considered to be of limited importance. And with that remark, I would just like to say that the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104416	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104429	In Denmark we spend 300 billion. kr. The public sector buys goods and services every year, and after all it is a lame thing. When we have common EU procurement rules, which we in Denmark sometimes quite rightly think are too rigid, it is to ensure rules that actually have to work in all countries too in countries where there are major problems with nepotism and corruption. So it is actually in order to take action in order to ensure a fairer distribution of tasks to businesses that you have this Procurement Directive. And there you can say that you have to make the same rules for all Member States, but I would say that in a country like Denmark it is sometimes uphill. We're spending 300 billion. kr. The public sector spends 75 billion a year, but companies spend 75 billion a year. kr. 75 billion per year in transaction costs; kr. For it could be given 150,000 educators or teachers or nurses if you set the price accordingly. So we have too much, too much costs, compared to what it costs companies to bid into this. And I haven't even included the public costs in these tendering rounds, where you can sometimes figure out who gets the offer because it's a very narrow or niche task or you still know who gets it in advance. I am not saying that we should not have procurement rules, but they are simply not screwed up well enough as they are today. And that is why I am very impatient when we start looking at the procurement law. Today we are discussing some technical changes mostly, but the evaluation has been in progress since December 2018 and it's almost a year. And there is really a need to correct some things. When we spend so much money on public procurement, there is also policy in it, because there is an ongoing discussion about what should be in tenders at all and what limits should be on how small tenders must be etc. And that is something we are also discussing on a regular basis. I also think that we often say: well, we cannot do that in terms of supply in Denmark, because the Procurement Directive sets limits on it. However, I would just like to say that we ourselves have set some leeway for ourselves because we have a procurement law that is tighter than the procurement directive that we have to comply with. And that's why there are some options in it. I have asked myself many times why we cannot look more at tax practices. Today you will need a verdict in order to be excluded from bidding. But using your tax practice, as it says, to outlaw those who actually pay taxes and thus have unfair competition, we should not have heard so far. But there are new things on the way, I understand, a new interpretation of this, namely that if you use tax practices to simply create anti-competitive activities, then you might be able to go in and look at it. And that's another example of how these things aren't cut in granite. We also have a former minister, Margrethe Vestager, who looked at this with regard to whether you can make demands on how the products have come forward so that fair conditions as with ecology etc. So precisely in the area of supply, we should not at least take a 'no' vote, because the borders are moving and the definitions are changing too. One of the things I would also like us to look at when we review the Procurement Act is how we can ensure better conditions for our SMEs. It is quite impossible for many to get in at all, because you have to prove over several years that you have won contracts, because how could you do so if you can never get in at first? So this is also a really good opportunity to spend the 300 billion. kr. a year to support SMEs and Danish companies, just as it is also a great opportunity to support more sustainable development in relation to the products we buy, and also to ensure that we do not throw good money at bad money • that we do not force mayors in the whole country to buy products and welfare benefits from tax havens. We actually have a number of bourgeois mayors who say: you are forcing us under these rules to pay for the services of Swedish welfare companies, which are clearly in tax havens. That is simply not right. So there is a great deal to correct, and I really hope that the Minister will invite us to negotiations as soon as possible. But in addition, the SF supports this technical proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104931	Okay. Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011104935	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there really came even more passion into the procurement law • I don't think there's ever been so much passion in the procurement law before. I just have one comment to make. We are also looking forward to discussing the procurement law and would like to see whether, in general terms, we could make the public sector's procurement policy a little more active, if we would, where it could precisely promote innovation and give more space to entrepreneurs and the whole green transition. So we are also looking forward to that discussion. Where's the 75 billion? kr. in transaction costs from? And does the rapporteur know that if you compare with the private market, where companies offer large tasks for private companies, whether the transaction costs are significantly lower, or whether they also lie around this 25%, as this figure indicates?
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105029	I don't know about the last one. Compared to the first, I think it's Danish Industry but I have it lying on my table; I should like to go down and check immediately and forward it. And the figure is derived from the fact that on average there are five bidders for an invitation to tender who use just over 5%. the costs of the tender as transaction costs. But I'd like to send it to sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105055	That concludes the question and we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105104	Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Mrs Victoria Velasquez, is still unable to be here, so on her behalf I would now like to say that the Enhedslisten is also very ambitious with regard to the forthcoming actual revision of the procurement law. But, of course, we are also dealing with what is here. I would like to say that it is extremely important that we pay attention to how many billions of dollars are really changing hands in such a supply process, and that we will pay great attention to the fact that much more is being spent in the future in green and social areas, and we hope that such opportunities can be used to a much greater extent in supply, and it seems that there is now some sensitivity for that. Many municipalities have taken the lead in the past and have shown examples of how this can be done, but it can be done much better, and our ambitions apply to requirements which are both ecological requirements, social requirements, chain responsibilities, etc., and that we also need to give better guidance to the municipalities in how they can buy social finance. In connection with this implementation of the directive, there are therefore some parts of the proposal that we cannot support, and this is one of them. whether it is stated in point 10 that access to design contests may not be restricted by reference to the territory or parts thereof of a Member State or by reason of circumstances which, under the law of the Member State in which the contest is organised, require the participants to be either natural or legal persons. Such a provision could mean undermining and restricting local democracy, and we think it is an evil. Then there are also positive things in the proposal, and here we must first of all look at what is called the tightening up of self-cleaning, I would call it. Because how on earth can you document your self-cleaning? Well, there are some descriptions of how to do that, but it's still pretty strange, yeah, rough tricks, I'd even say that you can self-clean yourself from, for example. crimes such as trafficking in human beings and other crime. So it is a good tightening up that comes here, and there we will note that it is important that if you have been through a final judgment, then for a period then you do not have the opportunity to try to clean yourself. So if you are excluded from participation for two years, then you cannot enter that period. It is a tightening and it is good. We do not see that it solves all the problems. It does not do at all, and certainly not, if you can self-rescue yourself of terrible crimes. It seems that up to now we have implemented an incredible laissez-faire policy in relation to the procurement directive, and we have to say that we are glad that it is, as it were, being tightened up now. That is why we cannot say at the moment that it depends on the further work that we will be supporting the proposal in its final form.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105405	There were no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105417	Thank you. I shall be brief, even though it would be great to have a long and exciting discussion about the procurement law, which I am one of those people who have actually tried on their own. The transaction costs are crazy, and there are lots of things we need to tackle, but that's actually not what this bill is about. In fact, it is a question of amending the Procurement Act following another collection of various inconsistencies between the Procurement Act and the Procurement Directive. That is what we have to deal with, and I have to say, when I look at all the comments, that they are largely positive. Therefore, the Conservative People's Party also supports this bill, with one remark, that we must of course re-remember the trouble it gives when we go in and change the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105502	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105511	Thank you for the floor, and it's nice for once not to be the rebel. Following on from many wise words that have been said, including from the SF, I can say here that New Citizens support the proposal, and I also welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that they support the proposal accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105526	Thank you. There were no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011105540	Thank you very much, both for the comments and for the passion in the room in relation to the procurement law. I am now not quite sure that this is the first time there has been a passion for the procurement law here. In fact, I believe that exactly the procurement law is the subject of passionate opinions, and I am sure that it will be when we look at it more thoroughly in the evaluation, to which I shall return shortly. In January 2019, the European Commission sent us a letter of formal notice on the inadequate implementation of the Procurement Directive. They have not only made them Denmark; a total of 15 countries have received such a letter. The Procurement Directive consists of 138 preambles, 94 articles and 15 annexes. So this is a comprehensive and technical set of rules. It is, of course, part of this story that the then government has replied to the European Commission that it is the assessment that most of the facts mentioned by the letter of formal notice are in fact properly implemented in Danish law. However, there are 13 factors which require clarification in the Procurement Act in order to ensure that the Procurement Directive is properly implemented and all of them are included in this bill and therefore primarily concern legal matters. The draft law is therefore not considered to entail significant changes to the Danish procurement law and does not have any significant impact on the business community or public contracting entities. That is why, as has also been mentioned earlier, I would also like to call for us, when it comes to the major rounds of the procurement law, to await the establishment of the evaluation initiated, which is expected to be completed here in the course of next year. It is an evaluation aimed at identifying whether the law has had the intended effect and whether there is experience that gives rise to some changes in the law. When the evaluation is available, we will decide whether and, if so, how to do it better in our procurement law. Then there are just a few considerations in relation to the parties. The Left rapporteur, Tommy Ahlers, says here that we must be careful that we do not come at too short intervals and make changes, because there are also some conversion costs. As I said, the assessment of this draft law is that, in relation to business and administrative matters, there are not considered to be significant changes, but otherwise I agree in principle with this that we should not make it too often. We also had the discussion on the Marketing Act just now, and I do not think that will be the case here in the area of supply. Now we have waited a while for the evaluation of the procurement law, and do we not have one good round on it when we get there? At least I look forward to discussing it with the parties in the Folketing when the evaluation is completed. From the Danish People's Party there was the same thing with the evaluation, and the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also says that I can no longer continue to call myself a new minister, but I will not start to call myself an old minister either. After all, I think that is too early. The only thing I might then just say about as a conclusion is in relation to the discussion about transaction costs, because that was in the picture. It is true that there are always transactions and that there are also many different ways of calculating the costs in terms of transactions. We just have to keep our mouths shut in the dilemma of the issue of • which is also being raised by several rapporteurs in order to be able to promote SMEs' access to tenders. I think Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party argued this with the fact that there have been ongoing discussions about e.g. food supply. If, for example, you're gonna have to... dividing food supply so that more can bid, transaction costs will increase, for then there will be more tenders. So you just have to be careful: When you knock down one problem in one place, it can pop up somewhere else. And I don't have the answer to this today. I am just criticising it as a dilemma that we must address in the discussion we are going to have when we have to move on to the more substantive content of the procurement law. It is not the bill that lies here, but it is something we are going to do in the new year. Thank you, however, for the broad endorsement of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110028	There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110031	I just want to say something about the last thing the Minister said. It is quite true that if we want to promote some things, there will be more requirements and specifications. But I also think there is a lot to be done to get the other way through. Now I was just talking to Mrs Pernille Vermund about the requirements specifications, and according to the discussion we had before, about when we have bureaucracy, which makes no sense, that is, which is not even bound up with whether we have one or the other political attitude, but where we just have to say that it makes no sense, the question is how we can promote the opportunities for making more simple tenders. It could be: We want to build it and it, or we want it and the product; give us some suggestions on how to get there most easily. I know that is also a discussion in the Minister's own ministry, in other words how we can promote some of these opportunities to make more simple tenders. These options are already there; they're just not being used very much. And it is therefore a huge burden, especially for SMEs and for small businesses, that they need to spend so much time living up to very specific rules that it can even be difficult to see the idea. So, I think most people can see the idea of having a more sustainable product (Thank you!), but you can't always... excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110139	Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110141	Well, I agree. I agree, and I think that one of the discussions that is really exciting with regard to the procurement law is what we are really promoting with the way the procurement law has been set up. I do not want to be taken as an income in order to have a firm attitude towards it. I'm just looking into a discussion that I think is exciting. In other words, we are promoting the innovation of being able to respond to the best possible, I do not know how many criteria in a tender dossier, or are we promoting the innovation of improving the Danes' daily lives in the best possible way? Are the good and exciting new solutions that we haven't seen before? I think there is inspiration to be drawn from the world around us too, where the opportunities which are to some extent also found in the procurement law today in Denmark are used in various ways for functional tendering and negotiation, etc. I do not know whether it is legal or cultural or how we should work on it. I just think it's exciting. I have not answered it today, and we must evaluate the law and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110248	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110250	Thank you for the floor. Following on from this: I think that is a very important point that the Minister makes. In other words, are we promoting companies that are capable of creating, for example, pre-qualifications for architectural competitions, or are we promoting those companies that are capable of drawing the right house for the right location for the right builder? I have my own experience in the field, which I'm sure you can hear, and I've been sitting with these pre-qualifications in a large company, where I spent most of my time doing pre-qualifications for a period of time. It's crazy what you spend of resources on it and you just have to keep in mind that every time a company adjusts up, then the others adjust accordingly. So the more precise you can be in your demands for what you want, without being so detailed, the better. That's where the balance comes in. Well, exactly who do we really want to do this job, or what is what we really want, without drawing up the project or drawing the performance that others would like to offer? That balance is so crucial, and it is also the one that determines how much costs are being spent in connection with the tender documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110402	I think that's right. I also believe that it is happening, that it will be a way of doing so, and perhaps it is also something cultural. Once you have become used to doing things in a certain way, it becomes a kind of path addiction, walking along the same path over and over again and setting out the offers in the same way. I therefore believe that, if we are to try politically to get a grip on this issue, we must of course also ask ourselves whether it is the law that stands in the way or whether it is something else. And I cannot answer what the other is, but I think there is one element of it in the answer to why it is not being used sufficiently out there. In fact, one should be able to say: we want a solution to this problem instead of defining the solution in every detail. For this has almost taken the bread out of the mouths of innovative and creative people. But where the solution lies, we shouldn't take today, but I can just premarital that we're going to take it really well and thoroughly with each other, and I'm also interested in taking it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110503	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, 1⁄2 minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110507	Thank you. Sounds like we're relatively in agreement. I do not know if you have it in this study, so now just a question: is it the case that the survey looks at whether it is the same companies that get, i.e. wins the offer when we offer, whether it is the purchase of toilet paper or whether it is large construction projects? So, are you looking at whether it is very much the same people who are gaining in and whether you have enough new people to consider? Is that part of the investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110547	I shall simply not be able to say that on a stand-by basis, but I shall be happy to return to it in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110553	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110559	It is fantastic that on a Friday at the last item on the agenda there is plenty of time to just round some other issues. I would just like to follow up on what the Minister has already mentioned and also comment on here, namely the forthcoming study of the procurement law and how it works out there. I just have a call to the Minister, because it might be that the Ministry thought that you really don't have to change anything. However, it should be remembered that public procurement is in a context as to how much it means for Danish business and the whole green transition. And there you really have something very, very effective that you can look at. So I would just like to urge the Minister to think very carefully, because if you say that nothing should be changed, I would say to the Minister: invite us now to discuss what we can do through the procurement law to push for the green transition and thus benefit Danish business. So it's not so much a question, it's just a call.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110639	But the call has been noted, and it is also a subject well-founded by studies that have been carried out, where companies and Danish industry are responding to what it is that determines to the greatest extent whether they can help solve the green transition. And one of the answers that popped up if not the top was so pricement regulations, i.e. procurement rules. So we're going to look at it. Whether we find a common solution will reveal the political phase. But this is a subject that we will be discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110708	No one else wants to speak. I would like to say that I understood that this was a small technical change, but it was an amazingly committed debate that came here, so I predict that this topic will fill something in the Parliamentary Chamber, also in the future. But thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191011110746	There is another review: Eva Flyvholm (EL) and Søren Søndergaard (EL): Enquiry no. F 8 (What can the Government say about the situation in North-East Syria and the possibility of stopping Turkey's attack on our Kurdish allies in the fight against the Islamic State?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 22 October, at 2 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
