ParlaMint-DK_20190314100024	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 206 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on access to health care and health care. Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 145 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of distinctive religious symbols and religious clothing for employees with direct contact with citizens). Trine Bramsen (S), Pernille Skipper (EL), René Gade (ALT), Lotte Rod (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 146 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new definition of rape in the penal code based on consent). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 146 is referred directly to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on selected international organisations (OSCE, Council of Europe, Baltic Sea Council and Nordic Defence and Emergency Cooperation). R 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 2 April 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100219	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 82 by Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), Peder Hvelplund (EL), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Lotte Rod (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF). The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 82 adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100324	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 83 by Jep Jakobsen (DF), Jacob Jensen (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). The vote will end. In favour of 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 83 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 84 by Peder Hvelplund (EL), Astrid Krag (S), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Lotte Rod (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100436	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100452	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100519	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100557	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100606	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100615	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100655	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100716	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100726	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100733	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100808	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100830	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100858	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100920	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314100955	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101009	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 9 (RV and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101040	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101057	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF). The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101126	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101145	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. in favour of 53 (S and DF), against 55 (V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101219	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101242	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 85 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101314	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101335	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101409	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101435	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. After that, Amendment No 12, tabled by the same minority, has lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101609	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101651	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101712	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of SF and RV)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101731	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101758	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101839	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314101853	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF and RV), joined by a minority (EL and ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3, by a minority (SF and RV), joined by a minority (EL and ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 22 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102015	No amendments have been tabled. And we're gonna have some peace! Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102139	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102153	Thank you. The bill here is mainly a follow-up to...
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102210	We need a little quiet down there, because now we have started with the first reading. Good! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102219	The bill here translates a number of elements into the energy settlement. It is about establishing aid schemes for experimental wind turbines; it is about removing the aid scheme for new household wind turbines after 2020; it is about extending the municipal right to object, so that municipalities are heard in situations where the coast is built closer than 15 km. We believe that this will be good for local support for projects and the democratic dialogue on where we best expand with renewable energy. It is clear that, in relation to the experimental mills, and we support the draft law, we would like to ask why a distinction is made between those on land and those on water, and we would like to discuss how we ensure that the pools that are set aside are actually large enough to allow us to have the experimental mills the industry needs. There is no doubt that the continued creation of jobs in this sector depends on us developing new technologies, testing new mills. Therefore, it is very important to ensure that there is enough money for it and that the money that should not be spent in the experimental pools is also returned to what is called the technology-neutral supply, i.e. the market-based supply of solar and wind expansion. So basically, the Social Democratic Party supports this proposal. We think it is important to see whether the test rules are quite right and then we would like to support the extension of the municipal opposition right, because it is good to have a democratic discussion. It is not, of course, a right of veto, but it is really wise to have a local debate and an opportunity to express one's opinion if one is dissatisfied with a given project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102419	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102429	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we warmly support the energy agreement that all parties in the Danish Parliament signed in June last year. The draft law here, L 177, is, after all, a legislative proposal which implements part of the energy agreement in the legislation. As the previous rapporteur also mentioned, this is the case here, among other things. establishing aid schemes for test wind turbines, experimental wind turbines, both located in the two national test centres, but also located outside the two national test centres. There is no doubt that it is very sensible for us to have test centres, special schemes in which we support experimental wind turbines, so that we can support our wind turbine industry to remain among the world's leaders and that we can thus continue to have a large industry, many jobs and large exports from the wind turbine industry. Another element of the bill is the abolition of the aid scheme for household wind turbines. I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has nothing at all against household wind turbines, but it must also be said that with the technological development that has been in the field of renewable energy in areas other than equal household wind turbines, and when you have to prioritise between what you want to spend public money on supporting renewable energy, support for, for example, offshore wind turbines, modern land wind turbines and solar cells is therefore a far, far better way to support renewable energy than spending money on household wind turbines. For the aid requirements for solar cells and ordinary wind turbines, for example, are a fraction of what is needed for household wind turbines and for the level of support that household wind turbines have benefited from up to now. So in order to focus the money we spend it we think is common sense and sensible handling of citizens' money it is that we are fully in favour of shutting down support for household wind turbines. Last but not least, there is also the element of extending the municipal right of objection with regard to coastal offshore wind turbines. It is true that until now municipalities have the right to object to wind turbines, which are set up up up to 8 km outside the municipality's coastline. As wind turbines are gradually getting higher and can be seen at longer and longer distances, we think it makes sense to extend this protection zone to 15 km instead of 8, and thus to have a local influence on whether they want to set up coastal offshore wind turbines. It is clear that in order to have a green transition that we have in Denmark, where we spend a lot of resources supporting green energy, there must also be popular support for it, and this also requires understanding and support for setting up coastal offshore wind turbines. There must therefore be an opportunity for the municipalities to say no and that it will also be respected by political teams here at Christiansborg. We support giving it the opportunity. We believe, first and foremost, that windmills belong at sea and that they should belong far out at sea, because we believe, after all, that our Danish coastal landscape is prettiest without windmills. That is why we also believe that wind turbines should be far out at sea. There is also more wind, which is why wind turbines can be operated more economically and rationally when they are far out. So for the general and good popular support for wind turbines, we are fully in favour of introducing this municipal right of objection, i.e. that it is extended to 15 km instead of only 8 km. Finally, I must say that since all the elements of this bill are part of the energy agreement which the Danish People's Party has happily entered into last year, we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102845	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102850	Thank you for that, President. The content of the draft law, L 177's, has been very well explained by the previous rapporteurs, which is why I would just like to say that we naturally support the draft law and the continuation of support schemes for test wind turbines. In line with the Social Democrat rapporteur, we also have the expectation that we will be involved in the work in relation to pool size, etc. We have one general interest, and it is, of course, that we ensure good framework conditions for the wind turbine industry in order to test their equipment, and, of course, we welcome the other points, both the cessation of support for household wind turbines from 2020 and, above all, the municipal right to object to coastal wind turbines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314102947	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103005	After all, we have a serious climate agenda, which means that we have to have renewable energy in many ways. We need solar cells and wind turbines, we also need coastal mills, and we need some offshore wind farms that are becoming bigger and bigger and cheaper and cheaper to build. I think it is important that in this bill we ensure that test mills are adequately secured. We are dependent on the wind turbine industry to continue to develop the mills for all parts of the solutions. We have received some consultation answers which indicate that test mills at sea are not being adequately accommodated with what is here, and we think we should have turned in a committee procedure if we could not land it in a different way. In relation to this right of consultation for municipalities when there are offshore wind turbines, I would say that it is fine that there is a right of consultation, but it is not a veto given to municipalities. It must also be said that there is a vvm process in the case of offshore wind turbine projects where there is a possibility that everyone can speak; that does not mean that all protests must and must be met. We support the draft law, but we would very much like to see us round it if we could not come to the conclusion that test mills at sea will be more successful than what is proposed for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103139	Thank you. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103150	Thank you. If it were up to the Liberal Alliance, the coastal offshore wind turbine projects that are already in progress today should not have been started at all; we voted against the bill at the time. If we support this bill, it is because, in the future, consideration is now being extended to the local population, as we have already heard, so that we can have the right to object, not only within 8 km, but also within 15 km, it could have been double for our sake. We in the Liberal Alliance think this is very positive, because the prerequisites for launching offshore wind projects and the corresponding green conversion are the creation of local anchoring and acceptance of the new projects. It's just a condition for this to land properly. We believe that this bill will go a long way in relation to what we have seen in the past, and that is why we support it. There are, of course, many other elements, but I want to flash this as the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103301	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103307	Thank you. I should just like to say briefly that this is, after all, the implementation of the energy agreement from this summer, so that the alternative can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103326	There is no radical rapporteur, and then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103329	SF supports Bill No. L 177. It's part of the energy agreement, part of making Denmark green and really making sure that more electricity comes from wind. That is the future, and we just have to recognise that we really need to have a change at an extreme rate, so we will make sure that Denmark becomes CO2 We think that there is a challenge in L 177 that we hope we can look at in committee, and that is the question of sea wind, which also has to be part of the test pools. I hope the Minister will accept that, and I think it really is quite promising.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103407	Thank you. Here you go, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103412	Thank you. First of all, it is an extension of our energy reconciliation with all the parliamentary parties from the summer of 2018. That's why this is a natural coinage. We have set aside 4.2 billion in the energy agreement. kr. for technology-neutral supply of renewable energy technologies, and thus we have also included support for extending the number of experimental mills from 20 to 24. The limit of the municipal right to object is extended from the current 8 to 15 km. It is, of course, an opportunity to be able to say from the local authorities that you can cheap offshore wind farms, and this gives you additional rights to object to offshore wind farms up to 15 km away. The bill also stops household wind turbines from 2020. That's very reasonable. When we look at support crowns and how we translate them, we have to say that with the new offshore wind farms, which are set up and where we start here with number one, we have quite different productions for some completely different money. That's why it makes sense for us to stop doing this. Conservatives support L 177.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103545	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103552	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The bill is primarily the execution of parts of the energy agreement from this summer between all the parties of the Folketing. First of all, the bill aims to ensure that tests and research can continue in the wind turbine sector, so that Denmark expands its position as a global leader in wind power development and demonstration projects. The draft law therefore creates the future basis for support for experimental mills inside and outside the national test centres. The two existing schemes for experimental wind turbines are proposed by the proposal to be continued in the years 2020-2024. The energy agreement totals 4.2 billion. kr. for technology-neutral procurement for renewable energy technologies and the support for experimental mills by 2020-2024 is financed from it. It is proposed that annual support pools be established for the schemes for the issuing of the notices for the two aid schemes. The definition of pool size and support model is therefore not part of this legislative proposal itself. Secondly, the draft law proposes to abolish the aid scheme for new household wind turbines in order to support a green transition where it is the market and free competition that creates the momentum. The special aid scheme for household wind turbines is proposed to be abolished from 2020 onwards. Thirdly, it is proposed that the current right of objection should be extended from the current 8 km to 15 km. As larger offshore wind turbines are developed, the possibility for municipalities to object to offshore wind turbines close to the coast should be extended to ensure increased local support for the projects. Finally, the draft law proposes the repeal of a provision on an aid scheme for wind turbines financed by power stations which has expired and the repeal of a provision on an aid scheme for wind turbines which has not yet been put into effect because they are not eligible for State aid. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for today's debate. I look forward to continuing the examination of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103811	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103813	Thank you. I just wanted to know if the Minister could say anything about what has been left, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for Pia Olsen Dyhr and for the excellent work she has done on this subject. Perhaps I would also ask the Minister for an assurance that we will have a discussion at the meeting of the Energy Committee on the size of these pools. In the offer made by the government together with the Danish People's Party, the industry claims that there was too little money. It can be said that if we make the pools large enough to secure jobs and ensure that the money that should not be spent in the pools comes back in the coming years' tenders, then we can in this way make a solution where no money is lost and where the possibility of testing is not lost either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103906	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel for it. I can answer both questions in the affirmative. We are discussing the possibilities. I am positive that we are looking at whether it can be done in relation to offshore wind turbines, experimental mills, and also looking at the size of the pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103922	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103935	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314103951	Thank you. This is a mostly technical legislative proposal designed to ensure the legal basis for the reorganisation of the Energy Network, which we have actually adopted and which has also happened out there, and of course we support that. The only such little political answers that have been among the consultation responses are a desire of some of the players • Danish District Heating, Danish Energy and others to ensure that there is a good dialogue with the industry. I think that Energinet, as well as the Minister, is interested in this, so of course we expect that to happen in the future too. Then the Ecological Council has asked for a clearer focus or strategy on how to use green gas, that is to say the role of gas, in the future energy system. I think that work is already going on, but I would just like to send out the signal that we think it is a good idea that, of course, energy networks also relate to the role of gas in the future energy system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104054	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104109	The bill here makes, it can be said, the legislative changes as a result of the energy minister's decision to change the company structure of Energinet and also to transfer some tasks from Energinet to the Danish Energy Agency. In the Danish People's Party we take note of the changes in the structure of Energinet, we have been informed of them, and we think they sound reasonable. That is why we would also like to contribute to the approximations of the legislation that this has given rise to. Another point in the draft law here is, after all, about what measures should be taken in the event of gas supply failure, that is, where there is too little gas compared to how much is needed. It is quite a hypothetical situation that Denmark can find itself in, in that Denmark is at least largely self-sufficient in gas, and that we will also be connected to Norway within a few years and will therefore be able to be supplied with plenty of gas from there if our own supply fails. But, of course, it is always sensible to be prepared for any situation, including the more hypothetical ones, when it comes to such basic conditions as access to gas heating for people. So it makes sense, of course, to take account of the situations that may arise. So with those words, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104253	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104256	Thank you. The Left, of course, also supports L 178 with the same comments as the previous rapporteurs have said that we can ensure public control of the tasks of Energy Networks, regardless of the structure of Energy Networks, and the changes that are in relation to gas charges for our preparedness and IT preparedness for electricity and natural gas companies, are moved to the tariff. So, with the fallen remarks, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104350	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104405	After all, it is important that we have a state company that can operate and develop the overall electricity and gas network, and when you look at the fact that Energinet was formed in 2005 and it is a company that has grown a lot in size, it is natural enough to look at the structures and see if it cannot be organised in another way. But now that Energy Network has grown so large and we have a climate agenda that is very serious, and we are looking at what powers the Minister actually has to launch major projects, I think we should actually use the opportunity here when we have a legislative proposal to look at whether the Minister does not have too much powers. After all, we have seen Viking Link, who has been given a political treatment, in that the Minister has had to give an authorisation that that project could be set in motion because it is greater than 100 million. kr. kr. So it is quite a comprehensive project, both because it is the consumers who will pay it above their tariffs, and it is a project which will give priority to some electricity infrastructure which has not been given much political treatment, because the Minister currently has the power to put it into effect. The Minister is responsible, and it is the Minister who can get all the trouble for that project. Then we have Baltic Pipe, which, after all, has some calculations on how the economy in it is, and there it has been estimated that you see it over 40 years, it may be sensible to spend over 6 billion. kr. on that project. There you can say that we are out in something where you know that Denmark says yes to that pipeline being able to get through Denmark, so states that Poland can import gas from Norway for the next 40 years. In fact, it is a rather far-reaching project which the Minister has been able to relaunch without having had a greater democratic process in it than there has been one politician who has had the opportunity to deal with it. We are facing some data centres, as such, popping up and where there is a dialogue in the municipalities, and the municipalities have an opportunity to say yes/no to projects, and it is, of course, a political process that is local, and I have great respect for that, but there will be projects that will suddenly be faced with a major network reinforcement that consumers will have to pay over network tariffs and where, if it is a large amount, it is again the Minister who can set such a project in motion, while, if it is below a certain size, it is Energy Network, which can say yes to certain developments. I think that is too little political interference in large projects, and I would really like that to be included in the discussions on this draft law, if we have not ended up in a situation where there is too much authority for the Minister alone, if not there was a political responsibility he had to share with a larger circle of politicians, in order to ensure that there is support for large projects. We must also ask ourselves, when we calculate the socio-economic situation in 30-40 years' time as in Baltic Pipe, what is the situation in technology at that time? We do not know that, and then we have helped finance a gas pipeline through Denmark, which consumers have to pay for. I do not think that is fair and I think that this matter should lead us to have a major debate on the competences assigned to the Minister and whether they are reasonable on the basis of the projects we have seen recently. There may be some other major projects that I have overlooked, and it may be that the scale of them is even greater, and I do not think it is appropriate. So it is our approach to the bill that we would like it to be extended to include those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104831	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104835	It is, of course, the case that the text states that the Minister is authorised to have these powers. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: which minister could the rapporteur imagine would take decisions contrary to the will of the Danish Parliament? The rapporteur himself mentions Viking Link, where there has been top involvement of all the parties of the Danish Parliament, both within the Ministry and within the committee, as has Baltic Pipe, both within the Ministry with involvement, and within the committee there has been a technical review. All the questions have been identified and the rapporteur has called for consultation and has received answers to all his questions. By the way, Baltic Pipe is actually a good investment, a positive investment for Denmark; it also promotes biogas etc. and their possibilities in our gas grid. So, apart from the fact that I do not understand the rapporteur's negative presentation of this, I would just like to point out that I think it is an unjustified criticism, since we have had an enormous involvement among all the parliamentary parties, including the rapporteur's own party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314104945	I don't even recognize that. In other words, the fact that a minister is called up in consultation and asked for a major cause does not mean that there is any influence on the matter. So it is true that we have had some orientations in the energy conciliation circle, but it is not the case that in the energy conciliation circle we have had an opportunity, like saying that this relates to that and that point of the old energy agreement, in the old energy conciliation or in the new energy agreement, and that we therefore have a right of veto over it. It's not like that. We have received some information, but it is not the same as there being a democratic process in which the parties of the Folketing have a real opportunity to say yes/no to some projects. So the fact that you are being informed of something does not seem to me to replace the fact that you can have a direct influence on matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105039	Here you go, sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105039-2	In other words, if the rapporteur thinks that the Enhedslisten should have a right of veto on these issues, then I can at least make it clear that I do not agree with the rapporteur and do not welcome the rapporteur's requests for amendment of the legislative proposal. But I just have to point out beyond what the rapporteur says that we have had a technical review, for example. on Baltic Pipe. It was with all these professionals who are working on it and all the questions could be asked, and it was subsequently concluded: is there something that we in the committee, the parties, want to take on follow-up initiatives? Is there something you're worried about? There was nothing, and that is why I think it is rather awkward when the rapporteur suddenly stands on the platform here and troublesatises various projects where the Minister has been a very active player in the field, precisely in order to ensure the involvement of all the parties of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105127	I still think that there is a big difference between whether you are informed of something or whether you are involved in a specific case. There might just as well be a bill describing Viking Link, which allowed the parties of the Folketing to deal with it and to ensure that there was also a public hearing in those projects before taking the decision. What has been the problem with Viking Link is that there has been an orientation and that the Minister has then made a decision and that some citizens in West Jutland have then realised that high voltage poles are coming up in their local area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105203	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105207	Thank you. On the basis of the restructuring of Energinet in 2018, the Liberal Alliance naturally considers it reasonable that relevant laws should also be adapted in this respect in relation to the organisation. When you organize yourself in this field, you can say you observe two key considerations. On the one hand, the ownership interest must be clear and concrete when Energinet performs regulatory tasks. That is one consideration. The second consideration is that, as a privately organised company, it is of course necessary to have the flexibility to adapt as effectively as possible. In fact, we think we have achieved that here with the bill. We see that we have had a necessary public control over Energinet, because it is major decisions that are being taken, as we mentioned in the previous debate, and we are confident that, as I said, we have found a sensible balance in these considerations. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105320	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105325	Thank you. This is, of course, a legislative proposal, as several other rapporteurs have mentioned, which is about making a number of adjustments to the roles of Energinet and which, in particular, has a technical and administrative character. That is why we can support the proposal. However, we believe that it is appropriate to have a debate in committee which is a little about the function of Energinet. I have also followed the latest project in particular, Baltic Pipe, and I am very concerned that this is where huge investments are being launched in a project which actually has no purpose for the Danish energy system and with a large share in it by Energinet. Baltic Pipe is, after all, a project which creates a link between the activities of extraction of natural gas in the North Sea and those of European consumers. You take the gas across Denmark, where a number of expropriations have to be carried out, and then down into Europe, without really enjoying the gas in Denmark. There I find it strange that we can choose that priority on the part of Energinet, because it should be the case that the role of Energinet is to ensure a green transition, that is to say a transition of the Danish energy system to renewable energy. In this case, the priority in my view would instead have been to invest in implementing green gas in the gas grid and tossing all investments in this direction instead of investing in something that goes across Denmark. So we are voting in favour of this technical proposal, but we think it is appropriate to lift the debate that was also promised by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105520	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105522	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that Baltic Pipe has no advantage over green conversion, etc., but does the rapporteur not see it as an advantage that it is precisely through Baltic Pipe and the extra gas that comes into the pipes that better offers opportunities to promote the use of biogas in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105544	No, it's the way Baltic Pipe isn't going to be about green gas. Baltic Pipe will lead natural gas, i.e. fossil gas, from the North Sea across Denmark and down to Poland, and in this way it is not green gas. The relevant thing would be to invest in things that can integrate green gas into the natural gas grid more and more. It is a process that is already under way, but it should be the way in which investment from Energy Networks goes, not to something that simply goes across Denmark and cements that we continue to extract fossil gas and sell it to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105625	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105628	Then it is just for the rapporteur's information: but the fact that you get larger quantities of gas, natural gas, through Danish pipelines, ensures that we can mix more green gas, that is biogas, into natural gas, and these are the very qualities that have been a challenge, among other things. in relation to increasing the use of biogas. So it is just to be able to please the rapporteur that it is precisely positive for the green transition and the use of biogas in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105659	I have not heard that there should be a connection between green gas and Baltic Pipe. I hear some arguments that suggest that Baltic Pipe could help Poland to switch from coal to gas, but Poland should not. After all, Poland must switch to renewable energy, just as we must in Denmark, and just as the rest of Europe and the rest of the world must. So, as far as I am concerned, Baltic Pipe is a strange investment, and if it were purely private, one could discuss whether anyone should be allowed to do so, but here it is, of course, about Energinet going in and having an important role in this project, and that is what I want to avoid in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105744	SF supports Bill No. L 178 but with a slight reservation which we need to discuss in committee. It is really about whether this kind of group structure with subsidiaries and Energinet is absolutely necessary. It may well be, but we simply need to clarify in committee whether it is perhaps unnecessarily bureaucratic and whether we are getting the gains that the government is putting into the bill. I still think that is a bit unclear, and we can then clarify that through questions about the legislative proposal in the course of the debate. We agree with the other elements of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105824	Thank you. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314105827	Thank you. After all, L 178 has arrived, following the fact that on 1 May 2018 Energinet reviewed a reorganisation of their activities, which was placed in subsidiaries. What we are discussing here today is to ensure a framework for public control of Energinet after the company's reorganisation. The draft law introduces a number of mechanisms to ensure public control of subsidiaries. The subsidiaries are not currently subject to the same ownership control as the parent company of Energinet. The draft law also states that an authority task must always be located in the parent company. This ensures that Energinet's regulatory tasks are as close to the ownership control as possible. Speaking of the debate on the various projects which lie in Energinet and thus, of course, under the Minister for Energy, one can say that the Minister will probably not take on more powers in his daily work than he is always sure that he has 90 mandates. It comforts me, and it should comfort the Folketing that this is how it works. This means, of course, that there must be support for those projects all the way through, otherwise the Minister risks being in the minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110004	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110016	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the bill. The bill contains three main points. The aim of the draft law is firstly to ensure the proper framework for public control of Energinet after the company's reorganisation last year. It is essential that both consumers and stakeholders and the energy sector have an insight into the tasks of Energinet, as the company plays a key role in the energy sector. Furthermore, a management focus on the diverse tasks of Energinet is important. On 1 May 2018, Energinet therefore reviewed a reorganisation in which several community-centralised activities were located in wholly owned subsidiaries. The purpose was precisely to create the necessary transparency and focus in Energinet. In order to ensure public control of the community-centralised activities of Energinet's subsidiaries, there is a need to amend the Energy Network Act. In concrete terms, the draft law proposes the introduction of a number of tools to ensure public control of the community-central activities of subsidiaries. The subsidiaries are not subject to the same ownership control as the parent company of Energinet. The draft law also proposes that Energinet's regulatory tasks should always be located in the parent company. The purpose of this is to ensure that Energinet's regulatory tasks are as close to the ownership control as possible. At the same time, however, the draft law ensures that Energinet has the opportunity to organise the company's activities, as the company's board of directors considers most appropriate, but within the framework of the Energinet Act. Secondly, the proposal provides for a fee financing of the monitoring of the preparedness of the electricity and natural gas sectors in the law on electricity supply, including the supervision of the general emergency work of Energinet. The draft law is based on a report and ex post evaluation which I have sent to the Danish Parliament. The evaluation recommends moving the tasks from Energinet to the Danish Energy Agency, which is expected to take place on 1 July 2019. The draft law proposes to introduce a legal basis to finance the currently tariff-financed tasks, as a change of funding is a prerequisite for the relocation of the task. Thirdly, the legislative proposal introduces a legal basis for implementing an EU regulation on gas supply security. The rules ensure gas to European households during a gas crisis, whereas in some cases gas to corporate customers may be interrupted against compensation. The rules shall also ensure the framework for dealing with a possible supply crisis, as well as the necessary administrative handles in the event of a gas supply crisis and any compensation mechanism. In addition, part of the agreement on digitising ready legislation is introduced with the bill. In future, digital communication may be required in the proceedings under the rules of the Natural Gas Supply Act. I would like to thank once again for the positive comments and look forward to the committee's consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110328	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110335	I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of whether this is the right level when a minister can so much take very large decisions. I remember that if the limit is more than 100 million, it will have to be passed by the Minister for approval. And then we have Viking Link, which costs more than 10 billion, plus what is to be set up by masters in West Jutland, and we have Baltic Pipe for more than 6 billion, which the Minister has also been able to approve. There could not be a reason why an amount of over 100 million. Is it necessary for a minister to approve, and could there not be an amount limit when we come up in large billions, so that it could be ensured that a law was passed and where it could be ensured that there was and is a public about it? One thing is that you are informed of a case; another is, in fact, that you have a public opinion that you normally have about a legislative proposal. Can the Minister not see that too many powers lie on the Minister's shoulders?
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110438	Thank you for the question, first of all. It is not a question of what I can do as a minister in relation to the Energy Network and the authority that lies there that we are discussing today. What we are discussing today alone is the question of transparency, transparency, in relation to the fact that Energinet has organised itself with a number of subsidiaries. So the debate, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and others have travelled today, we shall take another time. That's not what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110508	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110510	No. Now the Minister mentions that this bill ensures some transparency, but it could also be that the draft law should include that there should also be a greater transparency when it is the case that we are on the way to launching very large projects in Energinet DK. I think it would have been an advantage if we had had more publicity about Baltic Pipe and Viking Link before political decisions were taken. Can the Minister not see that it would be an advantage if we had a little more publicity about these major social investments?
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110542	Thank you again for the question. That is not the question we are discussing today. That is the only transparency with regard to the establishment of the subsidiaries. On the second question about what I, as a minister, am authorised and not authorised to do, I think that if the Enhedslisten wants to raise it, then they must raise it with the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110559	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110621	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314110633	Thank you. This bill is perhaps a little more political than the ones we have just dealt with, which were very technical. This bill is about putting a stop to permits for the exploration and recovery of hydrocarbons, in other words fossil It must no longer be possible to investigate and extract them on land or in the inland Danish waters. In these weeks and months, when there is a great deal of discussion about climate, it is, in fact, an important signal to send out. You can also read in the government statement here and we must assume that it is right that it is based on an assessment that there are actually no significant resources in the underground on our land and in the inland Danish waters. We must, of course, base this on the government's decision. In this way one can say that, just as it is pleasing, it may also be a bit free if there is actually no interest in it. But then let us draw a line in the sand with the Minister's studies, which are based both on the National Geological Surveys for Denmark and Greenland, what is called GEUS, and the Danish Energy Agency's updated assessment. However, I have to say here that when the government presented this, it was made a very big battle number that the government was now at the forefront of the green transition. Just for history's sake, I'd like to say that's not how this case started. This case started with a Dutch company seeking permission to investigate at Lolland, and there we were actually presented in the Energy Committee with a letter and a statement from the Minister, where the Minister wrote and this was on 31 May 2017: "It is my intention to grant the new permits when the statement... has been submitted to the committee. Then there was not a majority in the committee who clapped his hands and said: we just do. That is why the Minister was never able to grant those permits, but the Minister intended to grant the permits. One of the major problems with the permits was that both geothermal and fossil fuels would be authorised. However, the company that had applied for permission had not actually requested permission to search for fossil fuels. So when the Social Democratic Party was confronted with that, we said quite clearly that there was no reason to allow a company to extract or investigate fossil fuels if they had not requested it, whereas there could be good reason to allow geothermal energy. So it is good that the Minister has become wiser. We can all do that at times, but I think it should be borne in mind that at this stage the Minister actually intended to grant the authorization. I am pleased that a majority of Parliaments insisted that we should not allow research into fossil fuels when it had not been requested, and that the Minister himself, on the basis of his own studies, has come to the conclusion that it is perhaps not an appropriate way to move forward and that it is not economically sustainable either. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111009	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111018	There is no doubt that the Danish underground contains deposits of oil and gas, and this is something that we have exploited in the North Sea for some decades now, and it has made us self-sufficient in oil and gas and also contributed both jobs and with a very large revenue to the Treasury, which has paid for some welfare. Studies have also been carried out, to which the previous rapporteur also referred, which shows that there is no particular potential for exploiting oil and gas resources under land or inland Danish waters. There has also been widespread anxiety about what I can easily understand there have been, among people who have lived near these areas in which it has been considered to drill for gas or oil, that the drilling would lead to pollution of drinking water. This is a very concrete and understandable concern, and we have also tried to take this into account as far as possible, because having access to clean drinking water in our household is a very fundamental thing and something that needs to be taken into account. So since there is basically no reason to maintain the possibility of granting permits for exploration of oil and gas on land in Denmark any longer, as there seems to be no potential for it physically, and also to shut down this uncertainty among neighbours for potential drilling, we in the Danish People's Party think it is right that we now remove the possibility from the legislation. Another element of the bill is the so-called subsidiary liability of holders of so-called hydrocarbon permits, which means that if a company sells a recovery permit to another company, the selling company will still have financial responsibility for helping to clean up after this drilling in the event that the purchasing company will be financially unable to pay for it. In this way it is ensured that it is not ultimately the Treasury and thus the Danes who will have to bear the bill for such drilling. We think this is common sense, and on that basis I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111256	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111304	Thank you for that, President. L 179 is a bill amending the law on the use of Denmark's underground. It is, of course, the case that changing governments have historically simply signed the permit for exploration for gas and oil on land and inland waters, and in fact only the party Enhedslisten has expressed its opposition to this in the Danish Parliament's responsible committee. We are putting an end to this now, and we are doing so partly because we have been able to see that there have been no potentials and the potentials that have been explored have not outweighed the public concerns and frustrations that have been caused by this. That is why I welcome the fact that we are now putting an end to this by law. In addition, we have activities in the North Sea, where one can get into the situation in a purely Danish situation, that one has transferred one's licenses to, for example. oil extraction from a drilling platform and that the company to which they have been transferred might go bankrupt, and who is responsible for the clean-up work? It is not for the State to have it in mind in its sales, why the seller will now also be liable for it by law. With these comments, I would like to say that the Left supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111451	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111503	The Enhedslisten supports the proposal, and it is a day of joy. I would like to thank and congratulate the people who fought shale gas drilling in North Jutland for years. There's reason to be happy now. They were exposed to nocturnal noise and noise and insecurity about chemical use, and the fear that fracking could have a negative effect on their local area was, I think, clearly justified. I thought it was really nice that they made a selection, so every day they marked that they didn't want shale gas drilling in North Jutland. We also saw that, since there were calls for permission to drill on Lolland, there were again citizens who gathered together in a movement called Zero Huller, who were involved in a debate, and who certainly contributed to the failure of a permit for that drilling. I think there is good reason, given that we have this case, to look at what it really is, the underground law regulates, i.e. whether it regulates it properly. It concerns raw materials, and if you are going to see it a little in a modern version, it is essentially the geothermal that is our potential in the underground. When we had the case of Lolland, we were on the way to granting permission to drill after geothermal power, despite the fact that the Dutch company had no relation to the local district heating companies. And if we are to make the best use of geothermal energy, we need to ensure that those who want to drill after geothermal energy have close cooperation with the district heating companies which are to distribute the heat to consumers. If you look at the specific projects that are in Jutland, then they are in Aalborg on their way to making a tender, a turnkey offer, where there is a company that wins and gets the opportunity to investigate, drill, create a plant that works, and leave it to the municipality. But we are actually in a situation where there are other companies that could put in a ticket to get a permit. And then it is actually most appropriate that it is the company that wins the offer that has the drill permit. In Aarhus it is the case that you are making an agreement with a company, but you could actually find that another company made an application for a drill permit in Aarhus, despite the fact that Aarhus is making an agreement with a particular company. I think we need better planning on this. It is possible that the Minister will shortly say that it is not part of this draft law. No, it is not part of what has been described, but we are, after all, dealing with some changes to the underground law, where it may be that the debate we have here shows that there are some corners of what has not been taken care of when we have to deal with how we get the most geothermal in the best way in some sort of close cooperation with local district heating companies. There is no point in this being the case in the wild West: there are some who put in applications first and then something happens. We need to learn from the experience that has been gained in other areas. And if you look at it we can, for example. If you take the coastal mills, there has been a process in which you could apply for an open door principle and anyone could put in a ticket that you would like to realise a project and thus reserve a stamp on our coasts and then proceed with a project if you had the economic and technical capacity to do so. I'd love to see this law go further. It is a very good thing that we are stopping the extraction of oil and gas on land and inland waters here, but we have the big problem of Denmark continuing to extract oil and gas in the North Sea. And if you look at what kind of Paris agreement Denmark has to live up to, then you see that we cannot just continue to extract oil and gas and pretend like nothing. We are in a global situation where most of the resources of oil and gas should remain underground and where we need to develop renewable energy. But I would like to conclude by congratulating the ski opponents in Denmark. You have helped to ensure that a final stop is now put to shale gas drilling in Denmark. We think that's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111949	Thank you for that and we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314111955	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance welcomes this bill. First of all, permission for the exploration and extraction of oil and hydrocarbons on land and inland Danish waters is being shut down. We think this is sensible because in 2017 GEUS and the Danish Energy Agency considered that the oil and gas potential on land no longer had a socio-economic impact. And it has been a great many years since there has been a real commercial interest in this area. In addition, the draft law contains a requirement for subsidiary liability for indirect transfer of hydrocarbon permit in the North Sea. This ensures that the State will not be faced with the removal costs of the indirect transfer, if the buyer of the licence is unable to cover the costs of the removal of the plant in question, and that is really just due diligence. Furthermore, the legal requirement here contributes to greater clarity, in our view, and uniform treatment by indirect transfer. This seems to us to be positive and we therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112111	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112117	This is actually a fantastic case, which is being rounded up here today or during this period of this bill. It started in June 2017 with a small annex to a committee meeting of the Energy, Supply and Climate Committee. It was an annex that could have run through all the boxes without anyone having noticed. But we were the ones who discovered it, and that's how the Devil lies in the detail. And the case is beautiful because it is about the cooperation between us politicians at Christiansborg and the minister, and especially about the cooperation with civil society, in other words all those people out in Denmark who can go in and fight for a cause. Because what happened after that meeting was that I and other politicians started asking questions about whether it was sensible now to allow this Dutch company to investigate geothermal energy, but also fossil energy, oil and gas, in the underground down on Lolland-Falster. And within a week there was actually a strong and budding movement on Lolland-Falster, who fought for this case. And this is to be seen in the light of the fact that there had just been a similar case in North Jutland where the citizens won. So over the next few months there was a growing movement in the population of Lolland-Falster backed by professionals and backed by environmental organisations and a lot of other good forces, while here in the Folketing we worked to clarify the matter and clarify what opportunities there are, to give permission for some geothermal, for it is part of the energy system of the future, but without granting permission for fossil energy extraction on land. It was therefore very happy that at some point the Minister chose to come forward with the decision which is now being implemented here today, namely to stop all future oil and gas exploration on land and in the interior Danish colorful. I would like to congratulate the Minister for that, that is to say, to take that decision. As other rapporteurs have said, what does it mean in practice? For there has been no commercial exploitation of oil and gas on land in Denmark. But there has been this threat all along in the open door concept that you could get the situation that we have just seen here, namely that a commercial company comes in and says: We want to be allowed to investigate here, we want to be allowed to extract what we find. And then the Minister has to inform the committee and then say yes. That is why we need to look at the open door model. I think it has had its time, and it also has some issues that need to be looked at in the future. And this is a matter which has ended happily and which I see as a first step towards dismantling the extraction of oil and gas in Denmark at all. There is now extraction in the North Sea, which we have had for many years and which peaked around 2007-2008, and which is now down to a third of what was when it was at its peak. So this means that there is already a development here that, if we wanted to, we could extract less and less fossil energy in a very short period of time. Denmark's Statistics says, as far as I remember, that around 2032-2033 there will not be much more to come for, and therefore we might as well start to prepare to have to make the same decision for the extraction of oil and gas in the North Sea. The fact is that if we are to abide by the Paris agreement, then science tells us that 80%. of the known reserves must remain underground. This applies to Denmark, and this applies to all the other countries in the world, and therefore it is important to see this decision and this bill as a first step in the big decision to completely stop the extraction of oil and gas in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112551	Thank you. Radical Left is not present. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112602	SF supports bill 179 yes, I am actually a little bit excited today to support this bill. SF has fought against shale gas extraction both in North Jutland and also in Lolland. So thank you very much to the Minister first for making the announcement, but also for making a bill. There should be no doubt that SF has generally been concerned about shale gas extraction, because it is not only based on fossil technology but also because it involves breaking chemicals in the underground, where it is not known whether it can actually be in danger of entering groundwater. The second element is that it takes an incredible amount of water to extract shale gas, which is not in any way sustainable either. So I am glad that we are out of that discussion in Denmark. It's over now. A bourgeois government has taken care of this, and I am clapping in my little green hands and backing the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112704	Thank you. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112710	Thank you for that, President. I agree with the SF rapporteur that this is a very good day. A green bourgeois government proposes that we stop with new permits to investigate and recover oil and gas on land and in Danish inland waters. This is a major step, but a necessary step, even when we look at the huge transformation we are undertaking in the energy sector right now, when we have also decided to build a huge wind farm, Thor, out in the North Sea. So it's to the right-hand side that we stop the extraction in this area. We have also decided in the green bourgeois government that coal should be phased out towards 2030. This means that the green transition is in full development on the part of the bourgeois government, and that also means that we have some changes that we are discussing here today. Then it can be said that, technically speaking, the draft law here does not mean that the state will have to bear the cost of clean-up in relation to the plants we have. This is the subsidiary liability, the subsidiary financial liability, and it is, of course, a question of companies which grant authorisations to others to continue to cover the costs of removing existing installations in the North Sea. So the Conservative People's Party says yes to L 179.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112902	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314112907	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I think I could listen to the fact that there is good support for the bill. The draft law we are discussing today contains four main elements. Firstly, we propose that it should not be possible to obtain permission to investigate and recover oil and gas on land and inland Danish waters. This translates the Government's decision of February 2018. The reason for this decision is that GEUS and the Danish Energy Agency consider that it is not likely to make findings of oil and gas deposits of significant size and social importance on land and inland Danish waters. The decision also responds to local concerns about the prospect of exploration for oil and gas on land. Secondly, we propose making it a legal requirement to impose liability conditions for the indirect transfer of hydrocarbon permits in the North Sea. It is now a legal requirement for direct transfer that subsidiary liability is subject to conditions and, with the proposed change, practices in this area will be equated between the two forms of transfer. Subsidised liability is a financial liability. It is about the fact that the company transferring the authorisation must continue to cover the costs of removing existing installations in the North Sea. The claim shall be made if it appears that the purchaser is not in a position to cover these costs. The aim is to provide a high level of assurance that the State will not be left with the clean-up costs. Thirdly, we propose that the Danish Energy Agency be empowered to lay down uniform rules on company information obligations. Information obligations are already being imposed in the individual hydrocarbon permits. The aim is to ensure uniform and transparent information requirements. It will also ensure that legislation becomes digitised, with information to be obtained according to individual guidelines. Finally, we propose that a number of provisions on the scope of the law be clarified. The background is that, in the context of the implementation of the offshore directive, a legal inconsistency has arisen in the underground law. The aim is to make it clear that the provisions apply to all permits in the Danish part of the North Sea. To conclude, I would like to thank you for the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113150	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, for a short comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113154	Well, it's really good that this open door procedure to apply for permission to investigate oil and gas is being stopped here. When I look at the annexes to the bill, I doubt whether geothermal is also regulated by the underground law. I think it seems that there is some governance that is not tight enough. I would very much like there to be more teams in relation to the fact that those who are allowed to drill have a cooperation with the local district heating company, in other words that there is, as it were, a setup which makes it reasonable that it is a particular company for which the Minister grants a drilling permit. I would like to hear from the Minister: is it in the underground law here that it can be regulated, or is it otherwise that it needs to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113246	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113250	Thank you for the question. The government is preoccupied with the development of geothermia. We are also concerned that this is done in close cooperation with district heating companies. If there is anything here that we need to look into, let us take a look at it in connection with the committee's examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113304	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113308	That sounds good. I see this as a commitment that geothermals will be regulated through the underground law and that it is therefore relevant that we should have a look at it. So I think that is a good commitment on the part of the Minister, and then it must be possible to make some amendments to this bill, which will ensure that there are clear guidelines to follow. I think that what has happened to the coastal mills, where one could freely, you could say, put in an application, has not been the best planning process.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113338	Thank you for the question. I have not just dealt with this issue before I entered the Chamber today, so perhaps it would be obvious that in the conciliation circle we were discussing how to promote geothermal, what framework conditions apply, how to ensure the maximum involvement of the local heating company, citizens, etc. So I would actually like to suggest that we have a talk in the energy conciliation circle about how we deal with this so that I do not stand here today and make some commitments that I will subsequently not be able to live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113409	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113424	The debate is open. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113440	Thank you for that, President. The bill here redistributes money from the ordinary urban renewal framework and targets it to smaller towns, rural areas. This is an effort that we in the Social Democratic Party have been behind since 2014, when we entered into the then growth package, and it is an effort that is now being extended with the challenge of viable villages that the government has played out with. On the part of the Social Democrats, we have it in the sense that we really think it is a pity that money is taken from the ordinary urban renewal framework, but on the other hand we also have it in the way that the cities that are most in need are the small towns. Cities with up to 4,000 inhabitants stand to be covered by this bill, and these are typically towns that have previously been municipal towns and that have since lost much of the activity that has been in the city, as a result of having had a town hall and having had the economic and public activity that is linked to it. It could be cities such as Røstrup or Dalmose or Uldum or the type of cities in which there are many of them who are currently struggling to get things together and who are losing some of the activity that has previously been tied up in the local area, and that is why we really think it is sensible that we should be able to make urban renewal a priority in some of the main streets and could tear down some of these worn-out houses, which are among other things. in rural areas. Many of us know Låsby-Svendsen, who comes from the Middle Jutland, but he has many fellow spirits who use the same methods, precisely to buy demolition-ripe houses and then rent them out to people with very low income, typically people who are on transfer income, and then get a business model out of it. We in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned about stopping the business model, so that people, including those who have low incomes, have a sensible housing to live in, and at the same time we think it is important to give priority to funding in the smaller towns around the country. So, overall, we can support this bill, but we would have preferred the money to have been found, for example, in the tax relief that has been made for private aircraft or elsewhere, rather than taking it from the ordinary urban renewal framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113727	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a new rapporteur, Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113735	Thank you. With this bill, we are implementing the part of the Finance Act that concerns village renewal. I was really satisfied when I could see that we had this pool significantly increased by the Finance Act. It is so true that we have taken the money from the urban renewal pool and increased it. I do not think that is so crazy, given today's Denmark, as the larger cities are experiencing so much, firstly, that we ourselves have the muscles to regenerate, but that we also demand cheaper housing all the time. In fact, one of the things that happened to urban renewal funds was often that we cost housing. So it is okay for the Danish People's Party that we stop and then focus more on rural areas, as we do so much with that law. The pool will be used by towns with fewer than 4 000 inhabitants, and you will be able to regenerate the building, you will be able to regenerate the area, and you will also be able to demolish and regenerate the people who will otherwise live there. The renewal of the area is an important detail of this, so that, when you have demolished a dwelling, you also have the opportunity to do something else on the ground, so that it does not stand as a village where you have just demolished some of the houses. In the Danish People's Party we are so well known for, I think, and are proud to work all the time with this relocation, or rather move into the smaller areas of the country. We are already doing this both with jobs and with education, and with this law we are now giving even greater priority to ensuring that something is done in the residential areas, some urban renewal on that front. The funds, as is now available with cities under 4,000 inhabitants, could be sought by 56 municipalities. We are very pleased with that. Then there's a little detail that we hope we can get them to go over to the Ministry to deal with this bill. It is that the word outskirts have been used consistently, and we would like that to be linked to being called rural districts, provinces or something like that. We clearly expect that to be a small detail. So the Danish People's Party can naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113950	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314113957	Thank you for that, President. After all, we are dealing with L 185, which is a draft law amending the law on urban renewal and urban development. With L 185 we make it easier for the Danish villages to innovate and develop. If you're going to translate it into a little more simple Danish, it's like we're moving stakes from urban renewal to village renewal. This is an important part of the government's work to ensure the Danish local communities, the local commitment and the growth and settlement that we are currently seeing positive tactics on across the country. One of the things that is strong about this plan is that you can think more in terms of the whole of a village area. This can be done both by thinking about demolition and whole area renewals into work in a better way in the future. After all, the bill comes from the 2019 Finance Act, where the government decided on the spending framework for the village renewal. This is very, very fine in line with the government's other work on growth and increased settlement throughout the country. Fortunately, we see that the good bars have infected the whole of Denmark. The turnover of houses is faster throughout Denmark, growth and employment are increasing throughout Denmark, and prices of houses are rising almost throughout Denmark. This is to be seen as a broad effort by the government over several years now, both with the major relocations of state jobs in Danish history and with the new planning law, which takes the handcuffs of many of the communities that have previously been hampered in taking the initiative for a positive growth in development. The first real broadband fund in Danish history, where broadband cannot be deployed as a result of market forces, can actually receive support now, not just through loan pools and what else we have seen. So it's, of course, a whole parade of excellent things we've done for rural areas, which are rubbing off on this whole positive development, and so is this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114218	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114228	The Enhedslisten believes that it is quite right that there are some areas in the countryside that are better able to carry out some urban renewal, but the problem in the bill here is that it is in this sense funds taken from the urban renewal which cannot then happen in a number of cities in Denmark. That is why we cannot support the entire legislative proposal. I find it interesting when they find solutions in some rural areas to renew their cities. I would like to mention Bøvlingbjerg, where they got tired of there being some empty houses, and then they made a local housing company that started buying housing and renting them out. In this way, they were also given the opportunity to manage development in their local communities. I think that is a very positive thing, namely that something can actually happen in rural areas without state money being involved. But we are also aware that state money sometimes goes better. We would like to see more urban renewal. When you see the consultation answer from the KL and the Land Organisation of the tenants, there are, in fact, still housing in the cities that need renovations. There will be less money for this renovation when this bill is passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114355	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen has just made a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114407	Thank you. It is for that reason that the Enhedslisten does not welcome the rural policy tactics of the government. This is of course no surprise, especially in relation to the rural policy pursued under the previous government supported by the Enhedslisten. What I just have to understand in relation to Enhedslisten's opposition is that the vast majority of the state urban renewal funds used were in Copenhagen: Is Enhedslisten's appeal that Copenhagen still needs the funds more than rural areas do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114448	After all, it is not only Copenhagen that has benefited from the urban renewal funds. We are aware that other cities also need to improve their housing standards. In the Enhedslisten, we are very much in favour of improving the framework conditions for rural areas. In the climate plan we have just launched, we would like to see it made easier for homeowners in rural areas to obtain loans to refurbished their homes. So we are fully aware of ensuring that life in Denmark is also going on in the countryside, and that there may be some who have ended up buying a house out there that has poor lending opportunities and thus have poor opportunities to contribute to the optimization of the housing stock that is needed. So in the Enhedslisten we have a great deal of focus on what is happening in rural areas. The rapporteur on the Left can be quite calm there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114539	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114542	It is the case that for all other parties in the Folketing, politics is very much about prioritising ■ with the exception of the Enhedslisten, which can finance everything. Therefore, I would like to make an experiment in which I would force the Enhedslisten to give priority to the funds: should you choose urban renewal funds, which are mainly used in Copenhagen as the main priority, or should you choose to switch them as the main priority to village funds, which are then used in the province?
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114616	Politics is not just a matter of prioritising. It is also a question of finding new solutions. And if you look at the Enhedslisten's new climate plan, you can see that we have found new solutions that provide better opportunities for people living in the countryside to obtain loans. We want to create a model in which the Danish Green Investment Fund is responsible for providing loans and that the energy saving that the citizens then achieve is helping to repay their loans. So it is not just a matter of taking from some land and giving to others. It is a question of finding new solutions. That's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114644	Thank you. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go. After that, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114654	Thank you. I think that politics is really about prioritising when the funds are not endless if you go into the essence of what political activity is all about. That's what thick books have been written about. Back to the proposal here. I agree with the rapporteur of the Left that during this period of government we have actually had a string of efforts in relation to rural areas. I will not repeat them, but I really believe that, in connection with this very thing, there are additional opportunities for you to tear down the old untimely houses, including in Dalmose and now I am looking down on the Social Democrat rapporteur, because I myself have tried it out no more than that to break this vicious circle in the countryside. There are a lot of bad things to come with when you have a large supply of poor housing, so I think it is an excellent proposal, and it is not just for the sake of the villages. Given that politics is a priority, it is also good that the funds that used to go to the cities, where house prices have exploded, and where it is incredibly easy to get a business case to hang together well, and where you know what you can get in rent compared to what you can get on Lolland, now go to the villages and not to the cities, which often have a fantastic economy and where there are really good opportunities to get a good economy in residential development. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114846	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314114853	Thank you. I have had the pleasure of being a standin for our transport policy rapporteur, Roger Courage Matthisen. In the alternative, we are very concerned about restoring and strengthening the respectful relationship between the country and the city, recognising that we are not opposites but prerequisites for each other. That is why this bill is not so straightforward either, because although we want more decentralization and settlement in our rural areas and our islands, we must not neglect the fact that urban renewal funds have been extremely important to create a good and secure environment for citizens in the larger cities. We ourselves have chosen, in our own draft budget, to allocate funds to continue the demolition pool of 200 million. kr. without affecting urban renewal funds. However, this is not possible with the bill here, but in view of the alternative's desire for a coherent Denmark and the need for our rural areas and islands to continue the demolition pool, renovation and urban renewal in order to reverse developments with centralisation and depopulation, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314115002	Thank you. There is no rapporteur for the Radical Left, and then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314115009	I'll be brief. SF supports the proposal to give priority to urban renewal in the villages. We do. We believe it is important that the country's villages and rural areas receive help and public support to renew their cities. We also welcome the extension of the urban border to 4 000 inhabitants rather than to 3 000 inhabitants, as several cities can then also be included in the arrangements agreed upon. In order for it still to be attractive to settle in the outskirtsdanmark, we believe it is important that the municipalities get a bag of money to deal with their problems with dilapidated buildings and with resettlement. Having said that, we also believe that both KL and LLO have some very good points. There is a need for urban renewal, both in the cities and in the countryside, which is why it is also a pity that you simply move money from town to country and perhaps back again at some point. I think it might make sense to give KL and LLO an answer to their concerns by describing the impact on urban projects. In this context, it makes sense to clarify the economic impact on the urban renewal framework. We shall be asking for that further in committee, and we will also ask for an answer to that before we finally take a position on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314115142	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314115149	Thank you for that, President. This is, after all, the implementation of part of the financial law agreement, and I would just like to say that village renewal is very, very important for the cohesion of our rural areas and in Denmark at all. This money's gonna do you good. I myself have shared in distributing many of them in my municipality. In the municipality of Lemvig we are engaged in the seventh village project, and it makes a huge difference where you take hold of this. Village renewal includes both area renewal, but also building renewal and conditionalisation. For these projects, which have been set up here, there is a refund of 60%. I just have to say that the places where you experience that there are houses falling apart and villages in this negative spiral, it can be said here that the municipalities have the opportunity to go in with state aid and conjecture and renew, to ensure that these villages can reverse developments. I myself live in one of the villages where we were through a village renewal some years ago, and today we see that there is now a great demand for houses in the city, whereas a few years ago we saw that it was impossible to sell a house. Now it is going very, very fast and it is positive, and therefore it is important that we focus on those villages with a population of less than 4 000. It is also important that we get it concrete, and we do so by having 56 municipalities entitled to receive state refunds in this area. This makes a difference in Denmark for a, we might say, overall modest amount. Compared to what else we spend money on in this high thing, this is something that makes a difference. Therefore, the allocation of the 330 million is. kr. over four years a very, very positive story for the villages that can now get started renewing their buildings and their areas. So Conservatives support L 185.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314115424	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314115433	First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive reception of the draft law. The draft law is the implementation of the financial law agreement, which gave priority to funding for village renewal. It is important that state aid for urban renewal is targeted at the municipalities most in need. For many years, a large part of the state urban renewal funds have been devoted to the renovation of housing in the City of Copenhagen. Urban renewal has helped to raise the housing stock in the capital and has also reduced the remaining need for state support for urban renewal around the country. Several municipalities now highlight a growing need for action in villages and in the open country, particularly in the outermost regions of the country, which are characterised by stagnation. Here there is like a surplus of housing, and several of them have a low quality. The government and the Danish People's Party have therefore decided to target the state urban renewal funds for municipalities with smaller towns and rural areas, which are now considered to have the greatest need for state support. In addition to subsidies for demolition, the pool is able to carry out area renewal and thus ensure the overall renewal of the villages. In addition, it is possible to re house with support from the pool when it is necessary to remove a dwelling due to urban renewal decisions, for example. if a house is to be demolished. The 2019 Finance Act provides additional funding for the village renewal in 2019 and 2020 and has been extended until 2022. The funding for the village renewal will therefore be larger and lasting for several years. The Bill guarantees a legal basis in the Urban Renewal Act to have the whole framework for village renewal. In addition, as can be seen from the observations made by the draft law, a notice is issued which, inter alia: will lay down rules on which urban renewal measures can be supported, the State reimbursement rate and which municipalities are eligible for applications. In addition to the village pool, the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, has concluded an agreement on a new notification scheme to make it easier for municipalities to prevent the rental of poor housing. So, in addition to the extra funds provided by the State for demolitions, the notification system will also provide better opportunities to prevent the rental of fallen housing which is not suitable for housing. Overall, I think we have made a good effort to meet the challenges in rural areas. Once again, I would like to thank you for your positive comments, and I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314115713	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130000	The sitting is resumed. Like the President-in-Office of the Council now, I would like to point out that things have been going well today, so we have changed the system of watch here in the Chair. But I can also see that we are unfortunately in deficit by rapporteurs in the Chamber, so if some secretaries are out there, ask the transport rapporteurs to come to the Chamber. I'll open the negotiations. The first rapporteur to whom I give the floor is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130054	Thank you. After all, it is one of these proposals that comes from EU legislation, namely the Fourth Railway Directive, and it is probably not the great experience, either for viewers or listeners, to attend it here, because it is a very, very technical proposal. It is basically about the need to distinguish between the conventional rail and the urban section in terms of certification and approval, and this is something like the metro and light rail that is about to fire up. Aarhus is a long way off with light rail, and it also comes in Odense and here in Copenhagen. That is one of the main points of the proposal. There is then also a duty for accident commissions to exchange information. As I read, it is also a little bit because we have just had a terrible accident on Storebælt, which the Havari Commission is currently investigating, but where it actually turned out that there had been precedents that might have been profited from having had knowledge of. So, of course, we welcome that. However, as I said, this is a very technical proposal and I think we may have to ask the Minister or some of the Minister's officials with a real sense of this to come to committee. Because even if you read this very carefully, I think that all of us in the continuing work of the committee could benefit from just having it reviewed. So we will certainly call for this in the Danish People's Party, but immediately we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130241	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, but I think the Minister has also heard that a technical review was almost requested. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130302	Thank you. Yes, it can easily go very fast in the Parliamentary Chamber when we half the number of rapporteurs, but it might be an inspiration for the number of parties in this Chamber after election, if it was interesting, and give more momentum and speed in the negotiations and perhaps also make it easier to make decisions. I don't know. This proposal may in some way not call for much political attention either, but there is one element which I attach particular importance to Mr Seligman's report. Kim Christiansen has already mentioned the fact that, for accident commissions, it is just as clear that you have to inform each other across national borders when serious things happen. We certainly got the impression that our accident commission was not aware of what had happened in other countries in the past in connection with the terrible train accident. It is very good that this is being established, because when we oblige the Danish accident commission to pass on information, there is the same rule in other countries of the European Union. So that's a significant clarification, which I hope will be a good expiry of this bill. Otherwise, it is almost only legal material that we are dealing with here so that we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130418	Thank you. And it did not give rise to brief remarks either. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130427	Thank you. I have the pleasure of being rapporteur for transport today, because I am a standin for Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, who is in New York. As far as this proposal is concerned, I really must make it very brief and very simple, because I must confirm that in the alternative we can support the proposal. We support the intention and the design of the proposal and the desire to create interoperability............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And we have also talked about the fact that this could perhaps help prevent and stem some of the serious accidents that are taking place, and not least those we have seen recently. The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130512	Thank you. And the next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130526	SF supports the proposal, but I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the Danish Railway Federation says that it is not fair to staff involved that a study extends over several years, as has been seen in the Vejle case. I mean, with the stress it brings for the employees, you have to be able to finish these reports more quickly. I also note that the Consumer Council Think in the hearing answer about this is saying that they are positive about it because it debureaucraticises the rules on security authorisations and allows more of the security work to be left to self-management. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130604	Thank you. That was a short one too, so we have already reached the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130612	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The main objective of the draft law is to implement elements of the technical part of the fourth EU railway package in Danish legislation. The aim of the package is to support a more coherent European rail network. A key element of this is that some of the railway authorisations currently being granted by the Danish Road Traffic Authority are transferred to the European Union Railway Agency, in daily terms called ERA. This means, for example, that ERA will have the competence to issue EU safety certificates to railway undertakings that are required to carry out cross-border traffic and the authorisation of vehicles to be used in more than one Member State. Railway undertakings wishing to operate in several Member States can therefore only have one approval and must not go through approval processes in several countries in order to achieve the same. The draft law also proposes to adjust the framework for the Maritime Commission on Civil Aviation and the work of the Railway in order to implement the rules of the 4th railway package. The proposed amendments will include: mean that the Havari Commission shall promptly communicate all available information on an accident to the ERA. This also means that the Havari Commission must take into account the reasonable needs of the victims and their families and keep them informed of the progress of the investigations. The draft law also strengthens the possibility for the Havari Commission to cooperate with investigative bodies in other countries and the general sharing of information with ERA. In addition to the implementation of the technical part of the 4th railway package, the draft law also provides for the possibility of debureaucratising the rules for approving safety rules to a greater extent than is the case today. The bill also adjusts the rates of taxation applicable to the supervision of the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority and to the operation of the Railway Board. At the same time, it provides for the refund of profits to the companies which have paid the tax in the event of large profits being accumulated in the schemes. In addition, the proposal seeks to ensure that as few accidents as possible occur in connection with people crossing platforms that are on the same level as train tracks. It is therefore proposed that persons be required to exercise special caution when crossing platforms which are in line with the rails and that passage be carried out without undue delay. The bill also contains a ban on passing a platform crossing that is in line with the rails in certain situations where crossing the crossing would be a danger. With these comments, I would like to thank you for the floor. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130907	Thank you. And it did not raise any questions in this Chamber. But there's probably a technical review ahead of us. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314130929	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur in the Chamber is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131001	Thank you. This is such a more tangible thing, and it's an offshoot of the latest Finance Act, and of course the Danish People's Party really likes this proposal. What we are doing with the proposal is that on ordinary road we allow lorries to drive 80 km/h. Like everyone else, where the rules today are that trucks are allowed to drive only 70 km/h. It has caused many unfortunate traffic situations with this difference, because some drivers are tempted to make hasty rushes with accidents. So, in terms of road safety, it is very good and, of course, it is also good for the transport sector. The proposal says that it is estimated at 560 million. kr. Every year, in terms of profits for the transport industry and for society at all, we know that we can move a little faster on the roads. To those who are so worried about this and have almost said that it will be pure racing on the smaller roads, I would say that we have then set aside a pool so that precisely in those places where it might be quite reasonable to cut the speed to 70 km/h, a pool of 30 million could be applied for. kr. for this purpose. A total of 1.5 million has been set aside. kr. This means that where road safety is not safe, lorries will be reduced to 70 km/h. So we look forward very much to putting this into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131148	Thank you. It did not give rise to brief comments, so thank you to DF's rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the Chamber is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, the alternative nonsense, the Liberal Alliance. It should not be so strong that I am saying the wrong party name. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131208	Thank you. We can see that we are doing quite well to do without a number of parties here in the Folketing. This is a quite sensible and good proposal, and I say this, despite the fact that I have seen the objections or concerns that may be about what is now leading to an increase in speed from 70 km/h. 80 km/h. for large vehicles. Nevertheless, we believe that this actually leads to greater road safety, because we all know the situation in which 80 km/h must be driven. And we're lying behind a truck thinking about overtaking because you have to drive a little bit stronger. In fact, it often causes dangerous situations, and when things go wrong, things usually go really wrong because they are frontal collisions, etc. So the harmony that can be achieved more in traffic with this proposal, we think, in fact, greatly outweighs the risk, and especially when the speed is now set at 80 km/h. and then have the opportunity to sign down where it is appropriate and not fully justifiable to drive the 80 km/h. with larger vehicles, we will have a quite good traffic management plan that is good for both large road users and ordinary drivers. And then there's the detail that this is actually a gain for business, so there's actually money to make for Danish society, by moving goods, services, etc. from one place to another in a shorter time. So all in all, it is a good proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131352	Thank you for that and it did not give rise to any brief comments. The next rapporteur in the Chamber is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131411	Thank you. I am still away from Roger Courage Matthisen as traffic rapporteur today. Roger Courage Matthisen is currently taking part in the United Nations Women's Commission in New York, but right now it is about transport. Very briefly, we have sympathy for the challenges facing business in this area, but we lack evidence of the positive impact of the reduction in speed distribution between trucks and ordinary vehicles in relation to road accidents. We also lack evidence that such a reduction would offset the fact that an increase in the speed limit for both trucks and combination vehicles would give a higher average speed for these vehicles, which we believe would increase the risk of accidents. The increased risk of accidents has been documented around the world by increasing speed, and we therefore consider it inappropriate to vote in favour of this bill as far as road safety is concerned. In addition, and it is also quite important for us that at a higher average speed there will be a greater climate load, and already heavy traffic is one of the major factors in Denmark compared to CO2 It is then another incentive for not being able to support this legislation. It is so clear that, with technology development, we get zero-emission trucks and modular trains, etc. and these become self-propelled, then it will be relevant for the alternative to re-evaluate our position in relation to that part of the argument. But at this stage we do not support this bill. We believe, for example, that: such things as transporting goods on track as well as road pricing will regulate traffic in a better flow and with less congestion, especially at peak times.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131602	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131611	In the Radical Left we have no desire to be critics in terms of speed. However, we cannot support this bill after reading the hearings that have been given, among other things. from the National Police, which should certainly not have a political agenda, but which should simply try to tell us what the police think is the most sensible, and that hearing answer is at least very sceptical about letting trucks drive faster because they slow down than other vehicles, and it is therefore driving in the cities we are talking about here. Nor can the Council for Safe Transport recommend it, and we listen a great deal to them. It is true, as other rapporteurs have also said, that there may be a road safety advantage in vehicles driving at the same speed, because they can avoid overtakes, but that must then be offset against heavy goods vehicles slowing down, as I said before. You can then offset the positive and negative effects against each other. When you read the bill and that is also what the Council of Safe Transport points out... there is not really any evidence of which one of these opposing effects will go through the most, and that is why we do not think it can be said together that this will improve road safety. On the other hand, there are, among other things. on the basis of the National Police's hearing response, much that suggests that it will exacerbate road safety, and therefore we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131748	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur on my list is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131756	The Road Safety Commission has set targets for achieving more safety, and it has to be said that in this area developments are going the wrong way when it comes to accidents involving heavy vehicles. This is contrary to the objectives of the Road Safety Commission. In 2017, 50 people were killed in accidents where a heavy vehicle was involved, and that is actually 28.5%. Of all the people killed. However, it is clear that it can be seen from several angles, and I really think that the SF's position can be summed up in the consultation answer from the Council for Safe Transport, where they write: the Council agrees with the draft law's observations that there are opposing considerations in the matter: on the one hand, the desire to reduce time spent in the transport sector and limit the number of dangerous hauls and, on the other hand, the risk that the higher speed among trucks etc. will lead to more accidents. This is, of course, the dilemma we face, but SF also agrees with the conclusion reached by the Council for Safe Transport: in balancing these considerations with one another, the Council considers it necessary to conclude that, overall, the proposal before us is likely to have a negative impact on road safety in this country. Therefore, the SF cannot support the bill. However, we can now calculate that it is going to be adopted anyway, and that is why I would actually like, in this context too, to point out that it should be adopted without the SF's votes, the consultation answer from the Cyclist League, which states: "The Cyclist League therefore calls on the implementation of the agreement on increasing the speed of lorries and light and heavy vehicles outside built-up areas to take account of road safety for vulnerable road users to a much greater extent than is the case in the present draft law. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20190314131946	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I understand that this morning's debates have gone faster than planned, and that is why I will allow myself to go backwards in the rapporteur's line on this matter, because now I see that three rapporteurs have been more present. So, with the approval of the House, I shall give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132023	I must, of course, begin by regretting that we are too late. We are three rapporteurs who have been on Denmark's Radio for a debate broadcast, and when we asked this morning when we should expect this bill to be dealt with, the estimate was that it would be at 14:00-15:00, so it can be difficult to plan. It might be that you should pay a little more attention to the hour. 12.00, when you go for lunch break and you can see that there is a legislative proposal that is going to be dealt with at an extraordinary early stage, just to sound out so that we do not have to waste each other's time with delays. As far as the legislative proposal here is concerned, the content has already been explained. The government has already proposed, with their Finance Act agreement, that we should ensure better opportunities for trucks to travel at the same speed as passenger cars. It is simply a question of ensuring a more uniform speed pattern on our roads. I think many Danes have experienced driving on a road, and then you discover a truck driving in front of you, and you think it's amazing how slow he or she drives in this truck. Perhaps someone has even tried to blink a little to this truck and thought that now he must get up in speed because you think that he or she must drive 80 km/h. Just like the rest of us. The thing is, the truck driver is only allowed to drive 70 km/h. On this road. It causes a whole lot of stress in the truck driver and a whole lot of unrest in the cabin, and he might get pressured to drive faster than he has to, and then he risks getting a fine. It may also happen that the individual driver thinks: now this truck driver simply has to pull himself together, so now I'm going to make an overtaking. The overtaking can then go and become gambling and thus dangerous. It is often in connection with these a little sudden and hasty rushes that accidents occur because they do not take account of the speed of the oncoming cars etc., and then things go wrong. Therefore, it may be appropriate to ensure that it is the same speed that you drive on the road. We have had the same discussion with regard to buses and also with regard to caravans, how many Danes were not aware that they had to drive slower than the rest of us. For this reason, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the creation of a system whereby, in selected areas where safety is at its disposal, we can drive vehicles at the same speed as private cars is a good and low-practical way of ensuring greater road safety. I am a little surprised by the rapporteurs I just heard who were nervous about road safety, because I see this action as one that must draw us towards more road safety. But it is clear that we, the Social Democrats, want to follow this closely, and if it turns out that this scheme means more accidents, we obviously have to evaluate it and change it again. Our instinctive experience is that it will improve road safety, and that is also what the industry itself is experiencing. One element that it is also essential to take into account is that a number of companies actually have a policy of speed for the trucks they use. They aim to make green runs, as they call it, where you slow down a little, because if you drive at a little lower speed, it is quite a lot of fuel that you can save. It is also about the fact that instead of just unplugging and stepping on the brake just before a light slides to the light and thus saves fuel. It is all about trying to optimize your fuel consumption as much as possible. Of course, we need to ask how much it will prevent so-called green runs, speed up and how road safety will be matched. But as a starting point, we in the Social Democrats welcome this initiative. We will ask a little constructively/critically about this and see if further action is necessary. And then we expect it to be evaluated when it has been in force for a while. But we can easily support it as it stands here. We think it is a step towards greater security, less stress for drivers and greater road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132456	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132500	I am a little surprised that the Social Democratic Party is so relatively positive in relation to the bill, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn has now expressed himself, and that is why I would like to ask: are we not worried at all? I almost heard the rapporteur's speech as if this would lead to further road safety or to road safety in the right direction. And I'm just wondering if you're not at all worried when you see the hearing answers from some of them, you might call them calmly, experts in the field of Safe Transport Council, the National Police Office, not least, the DTU, the Havari Commission, etc. Does that really give rise to no greater concern in the Social Democratic Party than Mr. Rasmus Prehn has expressed himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132552	Of course, we Social Democrats always read these hearings with the greatest interest, and if there are concerns, that is something we take seriously. We see more that what is being expressed is that we must be aware that there may be an element of danger here. But we must also note that there is therefore also a sense of security in the fact that the vehicles which are on the same road have the same guidelines, so as not to provoke unnecessary delays which may be dangerous. We also attach importance to this element, and we have listened.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132629	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132631	I understand that, but I guess there's after all, I guess, sir. Rasmus Prehn agrees with me on the real difference between a truck that comes up loaded and weighs 30, 40, max. 56 tonnes, then a passenger car. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Prehn has read the consultation answer from the Central and West Zealand Police, which has also contributed to the National Police response on the very, very greatly increased brake lengths coming with a speed increase of just 10 km/h.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132707	It goes without saying that there is a longer brake length when the speed rises; and when the vehicle is heavy, it also contributes to this longer brake length. However, we find that this is also why we have been very precise in the legislative proposal when we say that it is in selected zones where speed is raised. When we get into areas where there may be cross-border traffic and other things, we experience it as if it were set up to separate. In other words, where you enter densely built areas, for example, you should not go up to the high speeds. So if you are in the open country on a traditional road, where there is no disturbing traffic, you can sign up so that the trucks can drive at the same speed as the passenger cars and thus avoid some of these dangerous hauls.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314132814	Thank you, President. I have to start by saying that the work here in the Parliamentary Chamber today really has been turbod up. It is usually a little more slow, but that is of course no excuse for us to be late. I very much regret that we have come later because of a debate on Denmark's Radio. Well, this bill is about increasing the speed limit for trucks and light and heavy vehicles from 70 to 80 km/h. outside more densely built area and on expressways. This is a proposal that we welcome. It is based on the 2019 Finance Act agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party, where we agreed to set aside a bag of money so that we can take account of road safety with this proposal. There is no doubt that what is really important for road safety is that we have a good flow of traffic. If we have some trucks that are lying and running at 70 km/h, and the passenger cars have to drive 80 km/h, then it is clear that there will be a lot of rushes, and it is bad for road safety; especially those overtakes where you have been driving behind a truck and have been frustrated and finally it is much better that we get a uniform flow • it will strengthen road safety. Of course this is the case and it is the laws of physics that when a heavy truck drives a little faster, there is more energy in the wagon train and thus also something with brake length etc. There I am aware that the brakes in today's trucks are far, far better than in the trucks my father drove around in the 1960s, where I had the pleasure of being on the road myself when he was a truck driver. The brakes were not too good then, but today the brakes are of quite different quality. So the fact that we are getting fewer overtakes and the fact that we have some very high-quality trucks, and that we are putting some money aside to sign up in places where there is a risk, means that we are not worried about road safety in this. On the other hand, we will have more mobility, and it means a great deal to business and to the economy that we have a high level of mobility in society. It is actually calculated that the benefit to society from this proposal is that business saves 560 million. kr. a year • 560 million. kr. It is therefore something that strengthens our competitiveness and thus makes our social cake bigger. And I guess it doesn't happen at the expense of road safety, and that's important. That is why I think it is a very good legislative proposal which the Left can support. And I should like to welcome my Conservative colleague and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133055	Thank you. There's one with a brief remark, sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133059	Again, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen argues that this is really a strengthening of road safety. May I draw your attention to the consultation answer from the Safe Transport Council, which clearly states: there may well be some road safety benefits, because you have one's speed and perhaps a smaller number of overtakes, but it outweighs what should be said so abundantly negative by the fact that the speed increases, that the reaction time gets shorter, that the brake length gets several times longer. That is why the Council for Safe Transport ends up saying that, if you look at the whole thing, this is a reduction in road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133145	Yes, yes, I have great respect for the work of the Council for Safe Traffic. They are set in the world to be concerned on behalf of road safety, and that is what I have to do, but what I am aware of is that, and I think that's something you're forgetting about, where there's danger, you're actually breaking down the speed. In many parts of Denmark you can see several kilometres out of the road, and so there is no problem with this, and that is what we are talking about. Again, it's that we avoid all these overtakes. Where a lot of accidents really happen is when people overtake. So that's why I'm safe. I do not claim that road safety is being strengthened. I'm just saying I'm comfortable with road safety in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133224	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133226	After the bill, the divorce is now left to the municipalities, and one must assume that they are after all consulting the police about it, but it is actually left to the municipalities. In addition, questions are raised as to whether the pool is large enough. What if there are more applications, what do you do with it? It's not just a process you just get past in a few days. So it can of course be questioned whether this sign, which would then be, I would almost say the great animal in the revelation, is real, at least from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133303	Yeah, but I think so. The technical authorities of the municipalities have reasonable checks on the road, and they should so I am not worried about that at all. That's what you'll find out out out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133315	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133331	Thank you for that and, of course, I also have to start by regretting that we are so late. I took a cab with mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, and the taxi driver noticed dry when we drove: Well, what sadly, has the Danish Parliament been effective lately? So, yes, what would we say? We were too late. Well, to the bill: the Enhedslisten is strongly opposed to this bill, and of course we are, first and foremost, because of road safety, which is clearly deteriorating, and the warnings are almost queuing when you look at the consultation answers. Indeed, even the Road Directorate is a bit concerned if you read the comments on the bill. But it is the National Police who have, moreover, obtained contributions from the Central and West Zealand Police, it is the Council for Safe Traffic, it is the DTU, it is the Cyclist League, and it is the Havari Commission which warns about this to varying degrees, or at least is seriously concerned about what is going to happen with road safety, and it is primarily because of the higher speed that will now be allowed on certain roads. A higher speed causes more accidents, especially more serious accidents with dead and serious injuries, it provides a shorter reaction time for drivers, and it dramatically increases the brake length. This is what can be seen from the response from the Kingdom Police, which is also in the contribution of the Central and West Zealand Police to the reply of the National Police. It is true that there is a point that if you get a less speed spread and hence perhaps less speed lags, then there can be a positive effect of it. However, this is offset by the fact that we agree entirely with the Council for Safe Transport and other negative consequences when speed increases by 10 km/h, as is the case here. In this respect, I think it is worth noting that it is throughout the consultation note and that it is throughout the response of the Ministry of Transport to the consultation answers that has come to light that the data base is so inadequate. The number of accidents caused by the spread of speed or overtaking of trucks is not really certain. What the actual speed is for trucks today is certainly a lot running above the permitted speed and what is the expected increase in the speed of trucks, you do not really know, and the estimates you have of it are to the extent that it is written directly, subject to uncertainty. What are the socio-economic costs of an increased number of accidents? After all, the Council for Safe Transport is quietly pointing out, after the new calculations, that a person killed costs 34.5 million. kr., and it doesn't take a lot of people until it counts heavily in the socio-economic accounts. But there is not really a proper data base on that, and that is why I think it is reckless to get to grips with this. A little overlooked element in this is that road safety is so much challenged is that it is also negative for the environment, and there are actually some calculations of that. CO2 In a time of climate change and with a need for the green transition, not least in the transport sector, a legislative proposal is therefore being tabled which exacerbates the climate and the environment. We don't think that's very clever. But we could actually go the other way if we wanted to avoid speed spread and too many speed cuts and say that everyone had to drive 70 km/h, including passenger cars. This would also be of benefit to the environment. I know most people will roll their eyes and think, "Oh, my God. And I'm well aware that not many people in this thing think it would be a good idea, but in these times it might be worth considering. I would also like to point out that the Road Safety Commission has a plan of action which is clearly difficult to achieve in terms of the number of people killed on the road, and I am therefore surprised that the chairman of the Road Safety Commission, Mr. Kim Christiansen is so excited about this bill. I think we should listen to the experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133846	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. So we have finished the rapporteur's series and I give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314133857	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. In the government, we want companies to have the best possible conditions. That is why we have as our goal to make the burdens of business 4 billion. kr. lower a year. In particular, as Minister for Transport, I want the transport sector to have the best possible conditions. After all, it is the transport sector which, so to speak, is turning the wheels of society around. An increase in the speed limit for trucks and combination vehicles from 70 km/h. 80 km/h. from A to B. According to the Road Directorate, the increase in the speed limit will result in a total saving of more than 1 million vehicle hours per year. This represents an economic gain in the region of 560 million. kr. annual. A saving of over 1 million vehicle hours per year for the transport sector would be a major improvement in mobility. The other drivers will also benefit from improved mobility, as trucks and combination vehicles will no longer be subject to a lower vehicle-specific speed limit. In this way they will no longer act as a plug in traffic. It is important to me that all mobility promotions take place in a road safety-friendly manner. It is often stated that higher speeds lead to more and more serious accidents. However, in this context, I believe that we must bear in mind the other specific factors which also affect the risk of accidents. An increase in the speed limit for trucks and combination vehicles has an integrated positive effect on road safety, as the speed spread between, for example, passenger cars and trucks are being reduced. It creates more tranquillity in traffic. A reduction in the spread of speed between vehicles is expected to reduce the need for delays and, hopefully, the number of some of the most serious road accidents: frontal accidents. At the same time, it is important that an increase in the speed limit takes place only on those roads which, by virtue of their road paths and similar conditions, can carry a speed increase. A total of 31.5 million has been set aside for this purpose. kr. in the 2019 Finance Act, to reduce the speed limit for trucks and wagon trains on those road routes where it is not safe for road safety to raise the speed limit. I think it is most sensible to leave it up to the municipalities, as road authorities, to negotiate with the police, to identify those roads where a lower speed limit needs to be set. After all, it is the road authorities that have the necessary and local knowledge of their roads, and with a date of entry into force of the bill, which is 1 January 2020, the municipalities will have plenty of time to identify the relevant roads. With the reduction in speed distribution and the possibility of signage, I am convinced that this mobility-enhancing of the speed limit for lorries and vehicles can happen without adverse consequences for road safety. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134221	There's one with a brief remark, sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134225	In his speech, the Minister for Transport says that there is also a great deal to be done in terms of calming traffic, and the bill must then ensure that there are uniform speed limits for passenger cars and lorries on the said roads. But calm in traffic, Minister of Transport: In time, we have a whole mix of different speed limits. On the roads we have 80 and 90 km, on the motorways we have 80 km for trucks and 100 km for Tempo 100 buses and caravans and 110 to 130 km for passenger cars, and in connection with this bill there is also a difference in traffic between trucks and passenger cars. The development we have seen over the last 3, 4, 5 years has not, of course, opposed to calming traffic by creating a level playing field, and there is certainly also an educational element here, so it is difficult to keep track of how much you have to drive, depending on what type of vehicle you drive or what type of road you drive etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134338	After all, silence in traffic is not about all sections having to have the same speed limit. It's about the fact that in this case, when you drive on a good and long and straight road, it creates more tranquillity in traffic that the truck drives 80 km/h, just like the passenger cars do. Otherwise, the passenger cars go up to the rear end of the truck or at least at a certain distance from the rear end, and then they stick to 70 km/h. and there might be a long hose if it is not a place where it can be overtaken. As soon as there comes a place where it can be overtaken, people have to go out and overtake, with the risk of overtakes. I'm quite sure that Mr. Knox... Henning Hyllested agrees that overtakes are generally a risk factor in traffic, and it is of course a risk of a frontal collision we are talking about here. These are the accidents that are potentially fatal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134427	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134429	That is absolutely right, and I fully agree with that. That is also why I believe that this is actually a good point, as the Minister of Transport points out, that it is also a question of calming traffic, not driving at different speeds, depending on where it is and what kind of vehicle you drive. I just don't think that's the way things have gone over for a long time, and that's what I'm kind of anchoring over. I assume that the Minister for Transport is aware that, after all, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, the hearings are almost in line to warn against this, precisely for road safety reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134502	So, it is worth saying that it has not been possible to find any figures from the Road Directorate to illustrate: is this really a bit positive or slightly negative or totally neutral in terms of road safety? That data doesn't exist. So we're all happy in our faith, and my belief is that it outweighs each other like that. There are others who, despite the fact that there is no data in this area, go out in a different way, and it may well be surprising sometimes that, for example, there is no data in this area. The Council for Safe Traffic and even sometimes the National Police are going out so sloppyly with things that we basically do not have data on. Well, they claim with their authority, as they claim they have, that this will lead to a certain result, even if you can't actually say it and we all just have to rely on our intuitive belief in how this will go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134557	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134614	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134639	The sickness benefit reform we made in 2013 was actually a lot of good measures in which unfortunately not much attention has been paid, and there are probably more of us who think that is a little too bad. But then I have the opportunity to mention some of those examples. Before the sickness benefit reform in 2013, there were 1,400 people who, after 1 year of sickness benefit, lost their entire benefit. Fortunately, we changed that. Before the reform, people with life - threatening diseases such as cancer could not get an extension of their sickness benefit. We saw plenty of ugly examples of this in the media. Fortunately, we have changed that too. And then there is the proposal that, before the reform, you would lose your benefit if you said no to medical care, such as health care. Happiness pills or electroshocks. And it cannot be right that you lose a benefit if you say no to these things because you are insecure about the treatment that is being proposed. That's why we did this experiment back then. It was only one experiment because there were some who were afraid that too many would say no to the treatment, and therefore it could not be done permanently. For us Social Democrats, it is of course always important to take swift and good action when people get sick, with the aim that they get well as soon as possible and get back to work as soon as possible. But if you hunt down people and give them a treatment that they are very uncomfortable with, you rarely get a good result from it. We have then, in the conciliation circle with the Minister in the lead, extended the experiment since then, and now we will make the trial permanent so that sick people do not lose their benefit if they do not accept the medical treatment that is being proposed. We are incredibly pleased with this development in the Social Democratic Party, which means that this scheme is now becoming permanent that people themselves are masters of what medical treatment they receive and that they do not lose the benefit if they say they are not, because they are insecure about the treatment they receive. That is why we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134842	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314134852	Thank you for that, President. I think that, Mr President, the former rapporteur. Leif Lahn Jensen, said, was fine, and so I should not drag it too far. This means that people can say no to a treatment they're insecure about. In the past, before this experimental scheme was put into effect, there have been examples of some who were told that they should have electroshock, and it could also be an operation they were insecure about and where they could lose the benefit if they refused to receive the treatment. We have then done away with this, and an experimental system was put in place so that we could say no to taking part in such treatment, but at the same time a clarification should be made as to what other treatment could then be obtained instead of taking care of our services. This system will be permanentised, and we in the Danish People's Party are very happy with it, because it guarantees the right of the citizen not to be forced to undergo a treatment that is not at all safe. So of course the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135001	Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur from the Left, Mr President. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135009	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the content of the draft law. As I said, with this bill, we are helping to ensure that individuals can refrain from medical treatment in the strict sense without having financial or benefit implications. As I have said, this means that the individual citizen can refuse medical treatment if he or she does not feel comfortable about it and without fearing that it may affect his or her performance conditions. And, as I said, the draft law is based on the experimental scheme that we made back in 2014 in connection with the reform of the sickness benefit area. After all, the conclusions are clear: the system works and guarantees the right of the individual to abstain. So this proposal strengthens the right of individuals to refrain from medical treatment if they do not feel comfortable with the treatment, and that is why I think that the proposal is a good idea both in principle and in practice. And in the few words I shall announce that the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135117	Thank you. And we move on as a matter of urgency to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135130	Thank you. The previous rapporteur is quite right: it is a good idea to make this bill, because it means that people do not have to feel pressured for fear of losing sickness benefits, for example, feel pressured to say yes to treatment in which the citizen is concerned to participate. Now the Socialist rapporteur mentioned that it did not attract much attention at the time when the reform of sickness benefits was adopted. This may be due to the fact that what filled the picture at the time was a very serious deterioration for employees, who were in the context of the reform of sickness benefit, which meant that the period of sickness benefit was reduced from 52 weeks to 22 weeks, after which the municipalities had to re-examine, as it says in a fine word, whether the citizen is entitled to sickness benefit, with the consequence that even more people lost their sickness benefit because the municipality considered that they could not benefit from one of the extensions provided for by the law. So there is a lot of work to be done if we are to correct the sickness benefit reform, including the fact that section 7 is unanticipated. And it is Section 7 which says that if a municipality considers that a citizen is well, even if the citizen is on sick leave, then the municipality can simply recover the person, even if he is not well enough to be available for the labour market. This is one of the major mistakes that should also be corrected. But this proposal is, of course, excellent and we support it. One might say that the explanatory statement drops a bit of wormwood in the cup, because it is clear, when we go in and look at page 7 of the draft law's observations, that the reason why it is put forward is that not many people have used the experimental scheme. In other words, giving citizens a right is obviously conditional on the fact that it does not really cost anything. This is clear in the way it is formulated. They say: Well, it's only about. 150 cases, and that has cost quite a few million, that is why we are now proposing to make the scheme permanent. It was perhaps such a small, what can we say, disclosure that was squeezed out between the side legs there. That's a little regrettable. So, in the Enhedslisten, if there are any rights that we think are important and fundamental, and I think that all rapporteurs like this bill, then we are introducing those rights, regardless of whether they cost a lot or a little. Then citizens must also be aware that the trees do not grow into the sky here either, because it is not the case that you then have the right to refuse treatment by a psychologist, among other things. You have to understand that. But that does not change the fact that it is a good proposal. I also hope that the Danish Handicap Federation believes that they have received a satisfactory answer to their question, which is, of course, whether it also applies to early retirement pensioners under the old scheme, when the municipality has to decide on raising the pension, and it has been confirmed that it does. And then I would just finally like to warmly welcome the fact that, for a rare time, we can adopt a legislative proposal which contains improvements for employees and adopt it, even though employers are opposed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135515	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is true that sometimes we have to recommend to each other that there are some corners in the Chamber in which we can talk small things better than just down here in front of the platform. But now the rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135530	Thank you. In line with previous rapporteurs, I can also say that the Liberal Alliance supports this bill. It makes great sense that we are now perpetuating this experimental scheme, because of course it is completely intuitively unfair that, for example, if you do not want to take antidepressants or antidepressants, you should be punished and cut in your benefits. So we think it is a good proposal and we think it is really good to make it permanent. This gives citizens greater freedom, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135608	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135616	Thank you. The proposal is about whether you should be able to say no to medical treatment without losing your sickness benefit. Of course, these can be many different types of treatment, but also electroshock and happiness pills, as the rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has said. In the alternative, we support the fact that people should not be forced to receive treatment that they are not comfortable with. Health and health are important, and it is personal, and it is an individual matter that the individual must have the freedom to decide for himself. You shouldn't be forced into electroshock by your sickness benefit smoking if you say no. The right to renounce this has for the time being worked as an experimental system, and it has worked well. That is why, of course, the alternative supports making the scheme permanent, so that people themselves have the right to choose on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135713	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135726	Thank you. I myself and the Radical Left fully agree with all the previous speakers. The trial system that we are now doing permanently guarantees the individual a right to control his own body without fear of losing benefits in the event of illness, and this is supported wholeheartedly by the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135746	You're welcome. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135755	One might well wonder, strictly speaking, why such a bill should be necessary at all. However, after a three-year trial scheme, the conclusion is fortunately that in future it must be without consequences for benefits to say no to medical treatment. In fact, it is most accurately said in the Danish Patient Consultation: • There may be many reasons why a patient opts out of treatment, including, for example, fear of risk of side effects, bad experiences with similar treatment, etc. Thus, the choice of medical treatment is not an indication that the patient considers his or her state of health to be satisfactory and sufficient to enable him or her to be active in the labour market, but rather an indication that the patient considers that the proposed treatment will not further optimise the overall health status. ▪ I guess it cannot be said more clearly, and we can just state that fortunately it is the case that the citizens actually own themselves and that they are not owned by the municipalities or by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135850	Thank you. The last rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135858	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs, we can also say from the conservative side that we support the draft law. I think it makes very good sense for people to be given the right that, if they do not feel comfortable with treatment, they can say no without compromising their performance. It is about being master of your own life and the treatment you want, and I think that is a very important right. It has also worked well in this experimental scheme that has been done, so we can of course back that up. It should not be the case that you are being pressured to take some medicine that you do not want to take, because you risk that it might otherwise affect your economy. So we think that is very sensible and, of course, we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135943	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314135953	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for the broad support for the legislative proposal here, which is, of course, a consequence of the experimental scheme that has been and is now being made permanent. Indeed, most rapporteurs have already explained very well what the draft law is based on, and also what happened before the experimental scheme was introduced, where there were examples that citizens felt compelled to take, for example. antidepressants for not losing their sickness benefit. The proposal, as in the present experiment, covers only medical treatment in the strict sense, i.e.: treatment by a doctor in the form of surgery or medical prescription or medical treatment of a similar intrusive nature. Furthermore, the proposal does not cover the course of conversation and the treatment of psychologists, as these types of treatment are not regarded as medical treatment in the strict sense. This is about approx. One hundred and fifty cases a year at national level, and I am very pleased that we are now granting the right to reject intrusive medical treatment, for example. surgery, treatment with prescribed medication, ECT treatment, if you do not feel comfortable with it. I also look forward to a good committee reading and have taken note of the broad support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140102	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140117	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140141	Thank you. This new holiday law is a rather complex law that the social partners have been negotiating for a long time. The parties then negotiated the agreement later, where the conciliation circle broadly followed the recommendation of the social partners. As most people know, it has been through the legislative work and has been adopted. It is a modern and completely new holiday system that will come into force next year, and that is why we are also implementing legislation and, of course, encountering some things that need to be changed. That is often the case, and that is how it should be when you make some pretty big changes in laws. Many of these changes are of a technical nature and are clarifications which I do not wish to go into, but I would like to mention a few points. There have been some challenges in relation to giving saved holiday money to the survivors of a deceased person during a transitional period as soon as possible. You change that. Then there are also some deadlines in relation to the postponement of holidays, which gives more flexibility. All other things being equal, the changes in the proposal provide a more flexible and efficient administration. What really pleases me is that when you delve into the consultation answers that is what I have at least spent the most time making sure you see that those who have been involved in pointing out the model, namely the social partners, say that this remains within the agreed model. It has to, because that was what was really, really important when we agreed on it. So in those words, the Social Democrats vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140308	Thank you, and there are no brief remarks, so the next speaker is Mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140320	Thank you for that, President. As Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said it was about regulating a law that has been passed. And that is precisely the thing about the payment of holiday money during the transitional period, that is to say, they have to go to estates more quickly than was planned. But there is also one thing about fund holidays, and it is especially for new entrants to the labour market and those who are re-entering the labour market, so that it is ensured that they can also have some holiday days they can last if they have not earned enough. And then there are some other adjustments, with the entry into force and the addition of interest and receivable, and the interest rate is being standardized so that it is the same interest rate in all areas. But all in all, it is regulations in legislation that we have adopted, so that is why the Danish People's Party is of course voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140421	Thank you. We will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140430	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs, especially to Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, to review the bill. This bill meets some of the challenges that have emerged in the wake of the agreement on a new holiday law that we have made, and the law on the administration and administration of holiday allowances receivable, which was adopted back in January 2018. And then it has become apparent that during the transition period from the old system to the new system there are a number of challenges that need to be addressed. And they're handling this bill, so both the citizen and the public administration are in a better and clearer situation if this bill is voted through. And I hope it does, and I will tell you that the Left will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140524	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140536	Thank you. As you know, the Enhedslisten voted in favour of the new holiday law, which meant that employees could receive what is called a simultaneous holiday, i.e. the same year as they save them. We voted against the next legislation that came as a result, namely the Social Fund for Holidays, not because we object to the creation of a holiday fund, but because of the conditions on which the Holidays Fund was set up, which, in particular, we see, and which can also be documented with dry figures, meant that employers were given a huge compensation in the form of a staggering billionths of dollars as a result of possible interest payments by still having their holiday money at their disposal. This should not, of course, prevent us from dealing with improvements to the Holiday Fund, even if we are dealing here with rather small improvements, but that is how we are in the Enhedslisten: we are happy to include the small improvements as long as we cannot obtain a majority for radical changes. In order to make a clear and clear improvement, it will now be possible to pay the vacation allowance to survivors after an employee during the transitional year; otherwise it would mean that the survivors would have to wait quite a long time before they could have paid the frozen holiday money. So it's a positive thing. There we would like to say that we support the proposal made by the main trade union organisation, namely that a similar possibility should be created for previous payments to employees retiring in the transitional year, otherwise this means, as the rules now stand, that they will have to wait for up to two years to receive the holiday money. There we think that the principle must be, just as it is actually in the law as such, that when you retire, you have to have paid the frozen holiday money. So we would like to fight for this proposal in the further legislative process. We do not really see that there are any factual arguments against it. Nor do I think that the Minister makes any factual arguments. All he refers to is that we have an agreement. Yes, but that is why we are allowed to become wiser, and we all think that we should have the opportunity to stay, so we would then ask the Minister to help us draft an amendment on this point and then ask some questions about it. For what would the factual, logical explanation be to reject such an excellent proposal? It is true that this has been the case in the negotiations. Then you can tell the main organization of the trade union movement that they have slept per hour, and you can't do anything about that. It was better to deal with the substance of it. In addition, there are a number of other small improvements of both content and administrative nature. I don't need to list them here. There is one thing that we are a little over, and that is the suggestion that we should just change the calculation of the penalty rate for employers if they do not deposit into the holiday account in good time. Today it is 1.5%. Now you would say that it must be harmonised with other rules, but that will mean that it will be lowered. It doesn't say how much, so we can't say anything about what the employers are going to gain. Well, we think they've gotten a lot of benefits from this new holiday law model, so why do they need another one? So we're gonna ask questions about that. We are totally indefensible with a sense of reality, which tells us that the parties behind this bill will probably not conform, so just to eradicate any doubt we will vote for the bill anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314140945	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance also supports this proposal. We think it is very good that the law on holidays and the law on the administration and administration of holiday allowances is now being amended and clarified, because in this way we will ensure a more flexible and more efficient administration of the rules. And as previous rapporteurs have said, it is only fair that this change should be made at the death of an employee during the transitional year. So we support the bill in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141028	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141036	Thank you. It does not surprise us in the alternative that such large and comprehensive legislation, which we have spent a great deal of time sewing together, requires clarifications and adjustments and some improvements afterwards. It's actually very normal. And when the consultation answers do not find any significant gaps in the improvements and minor corrections, we support the adjustments, since the alternative is also included in the new agreement on the new holiday law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141101	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141113	Thank you. The Radical Left, like the other speakers, can agree to the draft law, which is, after all, a transitional challenge to be dealt with in the context of the new holiday law. So yes, the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141128	Thank you. And then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141136	You don't always hit the ball like that in the first place, and so it is with this law. That is why it needs to be corrected so that we can make up for the worst mistakes and shortcomings that have then emerged. So perhaps I think, like what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, that if we still have our hands out of our pockets, shouldn't we finish it all at once? That is why I am looking at the consultation answer from the main trade union organisation, which states that it is FH's view, as previously stated, that a similar possibility should be created for early payments to employees retiring in the transitional year. An employee who retires during the transitional year will have to wait up to two years for the payment of holiday allowances, which can be seen by the individual as unreasonable, not least in a situation where there is no double pay for holidays. I think they're right about that. After all, this bill is recommended by the social partners, who have knitted the basic agreement together, and therefore the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141234	Thank you. Then we shall conclude the rapporteur's line with the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr President. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141241	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs, I can say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill. After all, as has been mentioned, it is a question of making some adjustments in the transition to the new holiday law, so that the administration can become more efficient with the new rules and ensure a better transition to the new rules. One of the things that I think is important to emphasise is that the survivors of death during the transitional period will be able to obtain any holiday money they require. In fact, I think it's quite important that we get this done. Otherwise, I will not be repeating the other elements of the draft law, but will simply say that we support the draft law, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141332	Thank you. That was the rapporteur's line, and we are now ready for the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141342	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support for the bill. I welcome the support for us to organise and clarify the law on holidays and the law on the administration and administration of holiday allowances receivable. With the changes, we will ensure a more flexible and efficient administration of the rules, even before the new holiday regime comes into force in earnest. The draft law provides for the payment of holiday payments on the death of the employee during the transitional year to be paid to the estate of the deceased, instead of the amount being treated under the law on the administration and administration of holiday allowances receivable and thus could not be paid until 1 October 2021 at the earliest. The maximum number of holiday days earned as a condition for making use of fund holidays as well as the number of fund holidays which may be paid shall also be specified in accordance with the provisions of the Holiday Law Committee. In addition, I also take note of the comments that have been made, and would just like to point out that this is a political agreement which is also based on very extensive work and, moreover, is a very, very large restructuring of our holiday money system. That is why I look forward to the committee reading, which can of course also be used to ask further questions about the understanding of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141501	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Employment and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141517	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 91 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party and Aleqa Hammond (NQ); and a group of 88 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Tjóðveldi (T) and Javnaðarflokkurin (JF). The groups have appointed the following members: 1 Birthe Skaarup (appointed by DF) 2 Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen (appointed by V) 3 Lone Møller (appointed by S). Alternates: 1 Gunhild Legaard (appointed by DF) 2 May-Britt Kattrup (LA) 3 Bente Nielsen (appointed by SF) Notice of who has been elected according to the group's recommendation will be included in www.folkingstidende.dk (cf. above). The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190314141634	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 15 March 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
