ParlaMint-DK_20190313130012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 196 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Working Conditions. Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill No. L 197 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Civil Procedure. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille): Bill no. L 198 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities. Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill No. L 199 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Vocational Training, the Law on Primary School, the Law on Guidance on Education and Occupation, and the Duty to Education, Employment, etc.) as well as various other laws. Bill No. L 200 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Vocational Training. Minister for Education and Research (Tommy Ahlers): Bill no. L 201 (Proposal for a law amending the University Act, the Law on vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes, the Law on Maritime Education and the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 202 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. Bill No. L 203 (Proposal for a law amending the taxi law. During the transitional period,1the Commission adopted a proposal for a Regulation Trade Minister (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill No. L 204 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Preventive Measures against Laundering and Financing of Terrorism) and the Law on Financial Activities. Directive on money laundering) and Bill No. L 205 (Proposal for a Law amending the Companies Act, Law on certain Business Enterprises, Law on Business Funds and various other laws. the money laundering directive)). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the use by the administration of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal procedure. 11). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313130219	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 14 March 2019. It is good to see the rapporteurs sitting in the front row. Isn't the Minister of Finance willing to join in on this, too, because it looks so good? It's good to see. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313130311	Thank you. About 2 weeks ago VIVE published a report which for us in the Danish People's Party was quite shocking reading. The report concluded that where approx. 40,000 weak elderly people who didn't get practical help in the home. It's already a high figure.The figure in 2017 had risen to 60,000, an increase of 50 per cent. within 10 years. Of course, we could not ignore this in the Danish People's Party, which is why we have called for this urgent question to the Minister for Finance, because we want clarification on how we can meet this challenge. The urgent question is: how will the government, in the light of VIVE, the National Centre for Social Welfare, identify the deterioration of home care in the municipalities, ensure and impress on the municipalities that care for the elderly is given adequate priority in the country's municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313130428	Thank you. Then there is a reply from the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313130434	Thank you for the question here, which gives us the opportunity to discuss how we deal with the challenges facing the elderly in Denmark. We have a well-functioning and vibrant local self-government in Denmark, which means that in 98 local democracies, elected representatives take responsibility for and have extensive freedom to organise and prioritise local services according to local needs and wishes. This also applies to the elderly, as well as to day-to-day provision, school and social services, just to mention some of the major and important welfare areas for which local authorities are responsible. There is no single recipe for the right priorities, and therefore the choice should be made locally. This is the core of local democracy and a prerequisite for the work of the many skilled local politicians in the individual municipalities. The government does not therefore believe that we here from Christiansborg should run the municipalities in detail, nor should we interfere in how the individual municipal councils lay their budgets, and I can see that there is support in this Parliament for that line, at least on paper. Among other things: Social democracy has presented a so-called 'finger away' reform last year. The economic framework of municipal autonomy, including the area of the elderly, must then be in order. This government has also tackled and taken care of this, firstly through a significant increase in the municipal service framework in the annual economic agreements with the National Association of Municipalities, and secondly, the government and the Danish People's Party have given priority to the elderly area over and over again in the annual finance agreements. Let me start with the economic agreements. With the agreement on the economy for the municipalities for 2018, the government and the municipality's Landsforening, KL, agreed to raise the municipalities' service framework by 0.8 billion. kr. in relation to the starting point for prioritising citizens' core welfare, including to support the work of municipalities in providing dignified care and care for older citizens. With the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2019, the government and KL agreed to give priority to a significant increase in the service framework of 1.7 billion. kr. in relation to the starting point of enhanced welfare, including to support close health efforts and the work of municipalities in providing dignified care and care for older citizens. It is the biggest boost of the municipal service since there was last a bourgeois government. Under the S-led governments, the agreed municipal service costs were cut by just under 3.5 billion. kr. From 2011 to 2015, including the promise that may have been in the Finance Act. Conversely, with the governments that have been since 2015, we have increased the agreed service costs of the municipalities by more than 2 billion. kr. From 2015 to 2019, including the promise to finance agreements. The development may also have to be seen in the light of the fact that the government and the Danish People's Party have focused on raising the elderly area in the annual finance agreements. So if I turn to them, we can start with the 2016 Finance Law Agreement, the first Financial Law Agreement concluded after the elections, where we deposed the annual dignity billion. With the 2017 Finance Act, we set aside 380 million. kr. annual to a clipping card for extra help for nursing home residents. With the 2018 Finance Act, we set aside EUR 0.5 billion. kr. Annually for better staffing in home care, home care centres and free care homes, and most recently with the 2019 Finance Act we have among other things. priority means to combat loneliness among the elderly. Overall, the government and the Danish People's Party have therefore prioritised and financed quite a lot of funds in the area of the elderly. We have just done so because we are very concerned that there should be access to decent care for the elderly for those who, in one way or another, are unable to manage without help and need help. In addition to the better conditions for elderly care, the government and the Danish People's Party have also ensured that older people receive more money between their own hands. The public pension has been boosted and is being boosted here in 2019, and from 2020 onwards, the public pension follows the wage trend rather than the current regulatory rate, which will be less than the wage trend that governs the retirement pension. This raises the amount available to pensioners year by year, and I am pleased that almost all parties in the Folketing have agreed to the agreement afterwards. It is not just the government that has given priority to the elderly. If you turn to the municipalities' realised net service costs for the elderly, you will see that they have been increasing in recent years. From 2015 to 2017, which is the most recent financial year, expenditure has increased by 1.9 billion. kr., also when account has been taken of the improvements to the elderly area resulting from financial agreements. As a result, the municipalities' expenditure on the elderly has increased more over the period than the priorities in the area of the elderly in the annual financial laws alone. The municipalities' expenditure on the elderly area in 2017 amounted to approx. 45 billion kr. In comparison, the municipalities spent less than 43 billion. kr. throughout the school area. But enough about money. For the most important thing in the area of the elderly is not whether you spend a lot of money, but it is that you spend the money properly and whether you spend enough. So it is not just a question of how expensive something is, but whether it is also the right help you get. Is this the help that allows the elderly to live the life you want? Will it be a dignified care for the elderly, so that you can continue an active life even if you are older, even if you need help? That is why we have to recognise openly and honestly today that we probably do not know enough about how much we get for the 45 billion. kr. we use and what the experienced quality of it is. So, what is the quality that each elderly person gets out of the amount of money we spend in this area? We know that older citizens who receive personal care and practical help are quite happy with the efforts of the municipalities. Overall user satisfaction in the area of the elderly is at a stable and high level, and I am actually very pleased about that. But we need a much more, we need to call it systematic knowledge of the results of efforts in the area of the elderly, of quality in the area of the elderly, also across municipalities, so that we can compare what is really going on across municipal boundaries. We owe it to older citizens to make the most of the huge resources we are using in this area today, and this is where the great opportunity for me to see lies in providing even more dignified care for the elderly. This was also one of the reasons why the government in the Finance Act • both for 2018 and for 2019 • together with the Danish People's Party has focused on the quality and results of the efforts for older citizens. Specifically, a working group with KL has been set up to propose models for what can be called quality indicators, i.e. measuring points of what is really good quality in care for the elderly. The working group will have to report on it very soon and we look forward to further work, but I expect that there will also be very broad support in this Chamber to increase the focus on quality and performance in care for the elderly. When we talk about quality, last but certainly not least, I would like to mention the government's proposal for a health reform which will bring significant improvements for the elderly. One of the main objectives of the reform is firstly to ensure coherence for older people in treatment provision, so that the treatment offer comes closer to home and avoids unnecessary hospital visits, and secondly to develop both quality and capacity in the near health care system, both in general practice and in local authorities. We do this by dragging the municipalities into the management of health, by establishing binding cooperation between the municipality, the doctor and the hospital, and by providing the municipalities with funds for more staff and for investments in health houses. There must be an increase in the area, not least in relation to older medical patients who today all too often end up in a cross-hospital, practice and care course, and all too often information falls between several chairs. Then it should also generally provide municipalities with more tasks and resources so that they can better carry out the care and prevention task. The agreements on strengthened action which the municipalities can form part of the new structure will largely include the citizen-oriented prevention, including the ongoing municipal care of the elderly. To round off: I fully trust that the decisions to prioritise the many funds and the large welfare area are well in the hands of our skilled local politicians. Having said that, the government is obviously very concerned that our older fellow citizens receive dignified care if they need it, and we have repeatedly shown this. By raising the economy in economic agreements, by raising the economy in financial agreements, we have secured more money for the area, while at the same time securing more money for the individual folk pensionist, and we need to develop this by focusing on quality and performance in the area of the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131418	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are brief comments now from various. Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131424	Thank you. I agree, of course, that it is a good thing that we have a local authority which can ensure that things are organised in such a way that they make sense where the service is provided. There can be many reasons why you have to adapt differently depending on whether you are a city municipality or whether you are a rural municipality, for example. I also agree with the considerations that quality is a significantly better parameter to measure than the economy necessarily is. But does the Minister agree that there must be a limit to local self-government, in terms of saying that there must be some kind of level playing and that there must be no room to refrain from providing the service which one can rightly expect as a citizen of this country after a long life in which one has paid taxes? Does the Minister agree that it is not possible to simply say that we are making such a tight search that it is quite impossible to get help, even if you need it? There is a limit to how far you can go as a municipality. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131530	I actually agree with that. And if I may put it a little more emotional perhaps, I am quite outraged by some of the examples I have seen around the country and by how municipalities have not searched or reduced the searched aid to a minimum that is far below what is reasonable for the individual. That was also one of the reasons why we agreed with the rate pool agreement that there should be some kind of non-complaint body and not a level body, but some kind of legal certainty body to look for whether the municipalities are meeting the regulatory level that is in the area, so not to say that they have to make it more or more expensive or in another way, but whether they are meeting the basic requirements we are making. I think we have to, because some of the things I've seen around aren't things I wanted to offer my family. And if I don't want to bid it to my own family, I don't have to accept that other people's family members are offered such terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131628	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131630	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. The minister asks if we'll get enough for the money. I think that if you ask in the care of the elderly and out in the municipalities, they will probably ask: are we getting enough money? For what we, among other things, have done. see the survey here from VIVE, is that 6.5 million home help hours have been cut away from 2008 until 2017. And if the demographic move is taken into account, 5,8 million more home help hours should have been spent in order to lift the burden. That means that we are up to 12.3 million home help hours that are missing. It is just that I think that when the Minister interprets it that way, it would be nice to know whether the Minister is of the opinion that when the number of hours of home help has been cut and when we have been able to see that fewer employees have arrived per year. In the case of older people, there has been a reduction in expenditure per year. Some older people, then it is an expression that the municipalities have had sufficient resources and then they just prioritize in a stupid and foolish way out there. Or will the Minister recognise that there is an economic deficit when more than 12 million home help hours are actually missing in the municipalities in order to ensure a level of service equivalent to what was in 2008?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131747	I think we should bear in mind that there has been a development in the home help that we are offering from 2008 until now. A large number of municipalities I actually think Odense Municipality was one of the first to work with it has introduced what is called rehabilitating home help, i.e. where the municipal employee instead of getting out and doing a job for the elderly enables the elderly to do it themselves. This means that you should not wait for the helpers of the municipality to come by and give assistance with a loving hand, but are able to take care of themselves. In my view, it is a more worthy home help. It is a more dignified way because one has the possibility of being able to take care of oneself on a different scale than if one were to sit and wait for a municipal employee to come out. So there has been a shift that makes you create high quality in another way, and that is why I think that whether we measure the care of the elderly in price, i.e. crowns and ears, or measure it in number of minutes, it is not as strong as if we could measure it in quality, i.e. measure it in the experienced quality of the individual elderly. Will you be able to live the life you want? Will you be able to have the leisure interests you want? Will you be able to have a home in a standard that you want? Is personal care in a standard that you want to? I think that is essential to work on forward-looking, much more than the issue of crowns and ears or minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131901	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313131903	Thank you for that and also thank you for your reply. I think I am addressing the issue of rehabilitation. For the report shows very clearly that older people are simply not being searched for the help they think they need, to the same extent as they were previously. And now that we are talking millions and billions, it is also a fact that every time two citizens have needed help, only money has been sent out to one, and it has been justified by the fact that the rehabilitation effort might help. So, in Aarhus, you worked very hard with it and had such a principle that you had to keep the citizens away, and it worked as long as you got the rehabilitating effort, but the fact is that very quickly the help doesn't actually work anymore. In other words, when I was trained in the early 1980s as a nurse, we worked with help for self-help, so it is not a new phenomenon that has been introduced into the care of the elderly. For everyone who works in the care of the elderly, people know that people would prefer to brush their teeth themselves, preferably themselves would lubricate the face into cream. So it's not a new phenomenon. But perhaps we have come to believe that we have helped some to take better care of themselves, which has not been the case. Isn't the Minister just a little bit concerned about whether the government has come to look at the blind eye for the perpetual reference to the rehabilitating effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132027	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132029	You have to be careful with pictures, and instead of looking at the blind eye, I would say that you have put your ear to the grass. I mean, 'cause we're not the ones doing home help. I mean, honestly, it's not like we're in the Folketing doing home help. Perhaps some of us have a double role as a member of parliament and a member of a city council, and it is on the city council that home help is provided. After all, I'm not going to put local self-government out of effect and say that now you can't make rehabilitating home help, or that now you have to do it in a certain way. I actually believe that we should keep our hands off Christiansborg and leave it to the municipalities. And that is why some of the discussions we have in here become such a little bit: what do we really think is best in the municipalities? I have faith. I am confident that municipal politicians are doing what they believe to be the best thing for their citizens. What may be the question is whether they have the economy to do. And what I regret is that it did not succeed in achieving a compensatory reform that would smooth out the great differences between the municipalities of the country, so that the differences had been slightly leveled out and there was a little more equality in what we can offer to the elderly, regardless of where they live in Denmark. There are some municipalities which today find it very difficult to carry out the task, while at the same time they can see that other municipalities actually have a service framework that they have very easy to stay within.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132142	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132146	Thank you. It is on the city council that home help is made, says the finance minister. In other words, since Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, nearly 95,000 more elderly people over 70 years of age have arrived, and should the demographic move have been covered, also in the light of healthy ageing, then 4,4 billion should have been set aside. kr. More. Up to the last elections there were discussions among the current government parties about whether there should be minus growth or zero growth or what should be in the public sector. Therefore, before we go into the more detailed discussion which I think will come when the rapporteurs come up, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: what future do we look into, according to the current government and the Finance Minister's own party, in relation to public growth and the possibility of keeping up with the increase in the number of elderly people, also when we clean up the figures that more elderly people will be healthy and healthy? The report shows that this is not just what is going through. It also contains weak and weakened elderly people who have not received the help they would have received 10 years ago. So what are we looking into in relation to the budgets, which are they, the municipal councils are doing the care of the elderly from?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132248	I would like to start by welcoming the fact that more and more elderly people are healthy and bodied, even so healthy and bodied, that they remain in the labour market. So even if there have been more 70-year-olds, this does not mean that the average pressure on home help has increased accordingly, because the 70- or 72-year-olds we see today are, fortunately, far more healthy and bodied than the 72-year-olds we saw 10 years ago. What we are looking into with our policy is to have a subdued growth in the public sector of approx. 0,3% In addition to what is to be attributed to defence and other security, which at present totals approx. 0.4-0.5 per cent In relation to the consumption we have. But what is interesting, Mrs Astrid Krag, is not really what you spend extra. The interesting thing is whether the money you already spend is spent well enough. Compared with the previous government and the refugee policy at that time, we have reduced the costs of refugees and family reunification by more than 4 billion gross expenditure, with the firm and fair immigration policy that has been in place since 2015. kr. From the top to what we need this year. Some of the money then goes back to the world's hot spots in the form of increased development aid, but a lot of the money is actually used to raise the level of service around. And this is done without extending the overall framework, but by spending the money on what we want rather than spending the money on something that we do not want, that is, higher benefits for refugees and higher benefits for family reunification. So it's not just a question of how much money you spend. It is also a question of how the money we spend in advance is spent wisely and on what is right. I am pleased that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has managed to reduce the number of asylum seekers and refugees coming to Denmark. Then it is easier to integrate those who are here, and we save some money, we among other things. can use to lift the service area in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132445	Thank you. There are no further questions or comments to the Minister of Finance. We shall now proceed to the debate and therefore to the general rules for short remarks. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132505	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for your reply and in replying to my follow-up question for the recognition that there is a limit to how poor it can be in the municipalities. The elderly are heartblood for the Danish People's Party, and since the election we have given priority to dignity billionaires, a kitchen pool, staffing funds equivalent to 1,000 new employees, nursing clip cards for nursing home residents, recruitment efforts to provide the necessary social and health workers and social and health assistants, a solid boost to the retirement pension and I could continue. But I'm not sure I have time for that. These are just a few of the measures that the Danish People's Party has secured since the elections with the good help of the government's voices. Elders' conditions are heartblood for the Danish People's Party. It is one of our fundamental values in the Danish People's Party that the elderly who have built up our society and who have paid an even very high tax through their lives must, of course, have a dignified and secure old age. This is the social contract we are talking about here. In fact, we owe it to us to provide proper care. The VIV report, which is the basis for today's inquiry, has revealed an increase in the number of elderly people who do not receive home help, despite having a need, of as much as 50%, when we are talking about weakened 67-87-year-olds, an increase of 50 per cent, which has taken place in the years 2007 to 2017. It is in the optics of the Danish People's Party a picture of a welfare society in a way that we do not want to be involved in. The elderly are core welfare and must be given priority as such, and such a report calls for action. That is why we called the Minister of Finance for this urgent request to ensure that the problem is dealt with. There will certainly be a lot of people who will excuse developments and claim that the municipalities have been forced into this maneuver. I think it is called the policy of necessity when you do not want to invest in our common welfare. It is the economy that is causing things to look the way they are, not bad political priorities. But within the same period as this study has looked at, the municipalities found money to employ no less than 22,000 more with a long higher education. And that's a long higher education course. They're not educators, they're not nurses, they're not ergotherapists. They are lawyers, journalists, economists, etc. This is a quite wrong priority, and when there is such a wrong priority in the municipalities, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we must help put the priorities in order. We have no fine feelings about municipal autonomy. For us, the most important thing is the welfare, dignity and security of the elderly who, through a long life, have paid to the welfare society with the expectation that the day they needed help, it would also come. This is the priority of the Danish People's Party • their dignity, their security. That is why we will also propose that we move much closer to local self-government and ensure that the resources for welfare that are needed are given priority. Finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that despite major investments in care for the elderly in recent years' financial laws, VIVE has revealed that fewer weak elderly people receive practical home help. The Danish Parliament insists that older people should have the help they need. Parliament calls on the government to target more funds for the elderly by means of this year's financial agreement. V 83).
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132912	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. A few brief comments have been made. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313132921	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. The VIVE report clearly points out that there is a group of elderly people who do not receive the home help they are entitled to, even when we are talking about practical help. Even when we clean up the figures for rehabilitating efforts and what may be spouse helping and something like that, it still shows that there has been a decrease from 36 to 25 per cent in relation to who is being given help. We also know that 6.5 million home help hours have been cut, where 5.8 million home help hours should actually have been added to meet demographic pressure. The rapporteur then says that it is because the municipalities have employed academics instead. Is it the rapporteur's view that this is not an expression of the fact that the municipalities lack the financial resources to do the job, but that it is simply because they have a stupid priority in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133016	I fully agree that, especially in the years from 2011 to 2015, quite a lot was cut in the funds that were available as a municipal council, but that does not change my optics that, despite the bad framework, there has also been a wrong priority. Now, of course, during this parliamentary term, we have made sure that there is a better framework, but I do not think that has led to the corresponding growth that should have been going on in this area. Unfortunately, however, it has been seen that the municipalities have felt that they have been able to afford that the mayor should have a communication adviser in order to be able to do his job. I just have to say that as long as you give such a priority, I think you have a wrong priority. So it is both a question and a question: a proper financial framework must be ensured, but proper priority must also be given to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133107	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133108	If we look only at developments from last year to this year, then there has been a 4.2% reduction in the number of staff. per older people over 75 years of age in the municipalities. It's just from last year to this year. If you look at the costs incurred by the municipalities per year. Some older people, it has fallen by 2.9 per cent. So the thing about everything changing now isn't right. That is why I just have to ask: it may well happen that sometimes there are some things that could be given a different priority in the municipalities, but does the rapporteur not think that the main problem is that the municipalities lack the economy to solve this task? It's not solved by just firing a communications officer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133147	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133148	No, I really do not think that it is the case that you can just free the municipalities and say that they have not got the framework that is needed. We have are can I just want to say that I will not listen to the hernia or whining from the mayors of the country. As long as they keep hiring new staff inside the City Hall, they can also afford to make sure that there are people out in the care of the elderly who can take care of the people who have paid the whole feast throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133222	Thank you. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133223	Thank you. It was actually something of the same thing that I wanted to discuss with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, because last week, I think, I was standing in the Chamber and discussing the matter from Assen's Municipality with the Minister for the Elderly, who has chosen to lower quality standards so that the elderly can get cleaned every five weeks and never have their floor washed, the older minister stressed that the municipalities have enough money and that they can just use them properly. I just have to be absolutely sure that this is what we hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say here today, because I almost think it sounded that way in the reply he gave to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur just before, that is to say, the total under-financing of over 4 billion. kr. in relation to the demographic trait doesn't matter. Is it true that in the Danish People's Party's optics this is only a question of how to spend the money in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133309-2	No, it's not just a question of that. We must ensure that there is a proper financial framework. But it must also be said that in these years there have been considerably fewer children in the world, and thus the municipalities have also had a less need to provide nursery and crèche places. It is also money that you could have chosen to spend on care for the elderly if that was what you wanted. In connection with all this saying that it is our fault from the central point of view, we should remember that these municipalities themselves have been involved in concluding the economic agreements which form the framework for it, and then we have prioritised additional funds on the part of the Danish Parliament, in addition to what the municipalities themselves have accepted as their financial framework. And then I think it is right to expect that, as a municipal council, you take your responsibilities seriously and provide the home help, the care of the elderly, to which you are obliged and to which you owe the citizens who have paid for this whole feast.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133408	It's Mrs. Astrid Krag again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133409	But in this way things are connected vessels, and therefore it matters what it is to a basic overall economy the municipalities have, and not only whether there are any pools on the Finance Act. There we have, moreover, a part of the explanation for the more administrative staff, that is to say that there are several pools to be sought, and so it is not the social and health workers who sit and apply, but some administrative staff. It was a bee remark. This is a coherent vessel, and that is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether he does not recognise that there is, for example, that there is a link between the two. has been increasing expenditure in relation to children and young people with special needs, adults with special needs, health in the municipalities, compared to the total economy you have, means something for what you can do for the elderly when it is as tight as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133454	If you distribute the 22,000 more employees with long higher education in a municipality, it will mean an average of 220 employees. I myself am chairman of an elderly committee in a municipality, and we do not have 220 employees to apply for money from the dignified billion, it can actually be done with considerably fewer annual work than that. So the whole idea that because we are making some pools, there is no means at all, and that there must be massive bureaucracy out there, does not correspond at all to what has happened in the municipalities, where this development has perhaps been deliberately set in motion by more and more of those who are popularly called cold hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133538	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133540	Thank you. When we have compensated the municipal budgets by only half of what was actually necessary in relation to how many citizens needed help, I find it strange that the rapporteur is simply referring to the fact that the mayor has a communication officer too much. If, for example, the rapporteur, like me, saw the broadcast the other night on the Danish Radio about kindergartens, we could see that this problem is also elsewhere than just in the care of the elderly. But the fact is that if the municipalities are to maintain the level of service they have today and they are not compensated for it, they must find the money in other municipal areas. Does the rapporteur sincerely believe that the government has given such good priority to the care of the elderly that it can actually maintain the level that it had ten years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133638	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133639	We in the Danish People's Party would have liked to have had even more money available for the elderly area. Because with this cut that has been, of course, it is not good enough if we just say that we keep that level. After all, we want to rebuild the care of the elderly, and that will obviously require more money. But, on the other hand, I also think that it is not easy to get around it by saying that there is no framework for it. During the last few years, in my home municipality, priority has been given both to more funds for teachers in kindergartens, more money has been given to the primary school, and the level of service in the care of the elderly has been increased, so it is not a well-stocked municipality north of Copenhagen. It was, in fact, until quite recently the poorest municipality in the country. So it is a question of how to prioritise your funds, and it is possible to do so if you take an active part in it as a municipal councillor and take on the responsibility of being a municipal politician, and perhaps give a little counter-play to the municipal director when he comes and asks for an extra employee in the town hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133743	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133744	However, following on from Mrs Astrid Krag's question earlier, it is also true that the Danish People's Party has helped well to pool the money as well as pool the money, for example. In the dignity billion. I've been sitting close, too, when it was supposed to be distributed. After all, it cannot be distributed to ensure that Ejnar, over 92 years of age, can actually get a nursing home when he needs it. That's not what you use the dignity billion for. It is used for extra benefits for the individual, but precisely not to care for the basic care of the elderly, which is clearly impaired and which we have seen so many examples of if I do not remember quite wrongly, in fact also examples from the rapporteur's own municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133826	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133827	Yes, it is quite true that before I chose to run for the municipal council and that was why I ran for the municipal council there were some others who had misridden this older area. It didn't look as nice in Holbæk Municipality either. But it is true that the dignity billion has gone to increase dignity. This means that the municipalities must get the basic work under control. There are opportunities for this today. I would venture to claim that with the expansion of the service framework, there has also been the possibility of investing in care for the elderly, if you wish. I just have to say that in several places they have given different priority, and the municipalities must also be given their responsibility for this. Because if you don't want to give them responsibility for what they do, I don't think we should spend a lot of time or effort and money on having municipalities if we don't want to say that they have a responsibility for what they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133917	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313133918	Thank you. I will just try to understand the rapporteur fully, because the question is to focus on the responsibility of the municipalities, and that is the problem of the municipalities. The rapporteur has previously said to Danmarks Radio that the Danish People's Party is ready to force the municipalities to earmark more money for the elderly, and that we need to get more hands on the whip and then earmark larger parts of the municipalities' finances and force them to prioritise the elderly area. As the previous rapporteur mentioned, it is often a question in a budget debate whether you should take the money from the children or take it from the elderly or where you should get the money from. So should I understand the rapporteur that there is absolutely no responsibility from in here? In other words, the municipalities have what it takes; it is simply because they cannot figure out how to give it the right priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134012	It is clear that if we turn a blind eye from here to this development and then do not say away from all the new things that are being set in motion, as a municipality would really like, at the expense of nuclear welfare, for example. aid to our elderly, we also have responsibilities in this regard. But that is precisely the responsibility that we assume in the Danish People's Party by saying that we must earmark more funds for the elderly if it is the case that the municipalities themselves do not give priority to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134041	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134042	Now the rapporteur referred to the rich municipalities, and in this connection I would like to say that I was sitting in a rich municipality, the municipality of Hørsholm, and they are right now firing teachers in schools, temporary workers, etc. in the field of children. It was very often a question of whether it should be taken from the children or whether it should be taken from the elderly, because many of the other areas were very legal, so one could not take it from employment or anything else; one could only take it from the children or the elderly. It may be that I am slow, but I should just like to understand whether the rapporteur thinks that the municipalities simply have the money to do so and that it is simply because they cannot find a way of giving it the right priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134127	This is often what savings are called, and it is because politicians want some money that they can give priority to other things. But you have to look at the bottom line, that is, what is in the one financial year compared to the next budget year, and if that amount increases, there is no saving requirement in a municipality, because then it is because you want to prioritise differently in your municipality. That's what it's all about when you talk local economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134151	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for this rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134203	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having called the question about elderly care here today. When we talk about dignified care for the elderly, we are at the heart of what is important for the safety of the Danes, and we are, in fact, also at the heart of what must characterize our common welfare society, namely that you can be confident that you get the help you need when you can't take care of yourself anymore. That is why it touches me deeply, just as I think most others are affected when we see the sad examples where it does not happen, such as. Ein, who despite his old age, his severe reduced vision and his chronic illness plus his own statements about not being comfortable at home could not get a place in a nursing home, or 90-year-old Esth from Assens on Funen, who, like the other weakened elderly who are searched for practical home help, could and may still look forward to getting cleaned up every five weeks and never feel getting the floor washed. There has been a large drop in home help hours over the past many years and it has become increasingly difficult to go to nursing homes, so much so that we in the Social Democratic Party have asked whether we have not reached where it has become too difficult to get home help or to go to nursing homes. But once we've raised that concern with the government and we've had both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Elderly in consultation on the concerns we've been told that we don't have to worry. We should not worry at all, because the large drop in home help hours is due to so-called healthy ageing. But the wholesome ageing thing isn't going as well as we've been thinking. Unfortunately, this is the clear conclusion of the report on the health and well-being of the elderly published by the Danish Health Authority earlier this year. Although the Danes are getting older, we do not become healthier physically and mentally, as we have had to hear from the government. This also explains why, in the VIVE study which is the basis for the whole question debate today, we see that it is not only the healthy elderly who are not receiving home help anymore. The study shows precisely that the elderly are weakened, a group that can be compared over 10 years and that 10 years ago would have received help that they are not receiving now, not because they are too healthy and too healthy to receive help, the Finance Minister for the healthy seniors has, after all, been pulled out of the study's conclusions, no, they are weakened older and dependent on help, and they do not get it. It says something about how much has been cut to the bone in our care for the elderly, and although the government talks about how many pools they pool with the skillful help of the Danish People's Party negotiators in the Finance Act for the elderly, it does not change the fact that our welfare has been underfunded by over 4 billion. kr., since Lars Løkke Rasmussen took the Prime Minister's Office. When the municipalities have to start every budget year cutting down, it hits the older area, and then it will mean deterioration that is noticeable, even if there is a pool or three in the Finance Act. We need to keep our hand under our welfare. We need to commit each other to the future of the social contract that binds our community together. When our economy is healthy, as it is now sustainable, the economists call it "we must make sure to invest where our welfare is pressured." This is the case in our hospitals, where the elderly medical patients are run very strongly, but this also applies to our elderly care. The good news is that it is possible to keep public budgets in line with the increasing number of older people, because we have a future-proof Danish economy compared to the increasing number of older people. So the money is there, which I guess we agree on in broad terms here in the Folketing. Where the disagreement arises is, of course, whether we should use the economic scope to hold hands during our care for the elderly and the rest of the core welfare, or whether we should reserve a large part of that money for tax relief. I have no doubt at all: instead of competing for who can promise the biggest tax cuts, the government parties should agree to an agreement we could call it a welfare pact, where we in the Danish Parliament handshake that of course the money must keep up with the increasing number of older people and the growing number of children. Otherwise, our welfare will be eroded year by year, and there is no extra fat to give off in the care of the elderly. There are no more low-hanging fruits, which the VIVE study, which forms the basis of today's question, clearly demonstrates. Such a handshake could be the happy outcome of today's debate. Then I should like to say hello to Lotte Rod from the Radicals, so I take her speaking time and say that it is important for the Radical Left... No, it does not go, you can cover, but you cannot give a rapporteur speech for another party). Okay, that's two sentences, but that's not gonna work? Good. Then we have a proposal for adoption which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with concern that significantly fewer weak elderly people receive home help than 10 years ago, and that the development is not only due to the fact that some older people have become more self-reliant, but rather to the fact that cuts are being made. At the same time, analyses show that although the total cost of elderly care in the municipalities has increased in recent years, it has not increased enough to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people. The Folketing wants to reverse the development so that all elderly people can have a dignified old age with the help and care they need, but the government's economic policy means that only one elderly person will be allocated money every time there are two more, and this will mean that the deterioration in the care of the elderly will continue. Against this background, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to ensure that municipal budgets at least follow the increasing number of elderly people, so that we can afford to take proper care of our older citizens without forcing the municipalities to make savings in other welfare areas. V 84), since the original text was longer than the allowed 50 words].
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134708	Let's take a look. That is 50 words when it is an urgent question, and I shall then hear who is putting it forward. It is the Social Democracy, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF). Maybe it'll cut a little bit. Then it's mr. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134736	Thank you. The VIVE study here covers the years 2007 to 2017. In four of those years, the Social Democratic Party held the Prime Minister's post, and the rapporteur was even a minister in one of the governments which was in the course of the four years. During the four years, fewer elderly people arrived. Did the elderly get better, or was it just an expression that people in home care usually spent their time sitting and drinking coffee with themselves and therefore they could easily be saved away, and is that why they let the budgets fall and that they swung the whip over the municipalities to such an extent that they had to fire and save in this area? Or does the rapporteur recognise that even today we are discussing this report?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134837	Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134838	I do not think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can find anyone who has tried to hide the fact that it was some hard years we had the power of government. It was for many reasons, but Denmark was in the deepest economic crisis since the 1930s, and it was felt everywhere in our society, and it was also felt on the care of the elderly. That's one of them. Therefore, we are in a situation right now where it really hurts when there is not enough money and where it really is time for us to keep our hands on the care of the elderly and not continue to underfinance. We have long since gone through the economic crisis, which unfortunately was our firm companion when we had the power of government. So no, I would just like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it was hard years in many places in our society, and it was also in the care of the elderly when we had the power of government. But all the more importantly, now that we are through the crisis and our economy long ago, we are healthy and sustainable, we must ensure that the money goes with the increasing number of elderly people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134931	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313134933	It was hard years, and there was a great deal of reason to have to give priority to things. Why was it that the Social Democrats did not give priority to the elderly? Why was it a priority to open the doors to Denmark and invite a lot of people inside the doors who did not contribute to society but which was a huge expense to the Danes? Why was it that more money was available for refugees and immigrants while at the same time tightening the belt in the area of the elderly? Why was it that the elderly should be involved in financing, that more refugees and immigrants would be wanted for this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135010	When we discuss the area of elderly people here, we often have to hear about dignity billions and rock maps that have been introduced under this government. However, it was also an important area for the previous government, and it was in this way the Socialist-led government that placed the first elderly billion. And I guess we did that at a time when budgets were under pressure and it was holding hard with the economy everywhere in our society. We placed the older milliard in the municipalities for the elderly area. It is almost in the name of the old man and we created the first rock map, the rock map that goes to the elderly, who receive help in their own homes. So we prioritised the area of the elderly within the framework we had financially. But there wasn't milk and honey in the streets at all. It was a few years of economic narrownecks everywhere in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135055	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135059	Thank you. Yes, it did not flow with milk and honey, and it was economical narrowneck, one must understand. But why, then, was it that there was money to reduce corporate tax in the same years? The top treasure was also lowered. We supported that. It is only when you hear from Mrs Astrid Krag that there was no money at all and you simply had to give it a hard priority, and one had to do so, among other things. do by cutting down on the municipalities' total economy, which is, of course, part of the framework within which municipalities can prioritise their economy, including the care of the elderly, how can it be that the second priority was affordable? I do not object to setting priorities, but I understand that this is a major problem for the Socialists. However, given the responsibility for government in this country a few years ago, tax relief and top tax incentives were given priority rather than increasing the financial framework for municipalities to provide advice for, among other things, companies. care for the elderly. How can priority be given to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135156	Thank you. It is a little interesting to see that a discussion that should be about how to ensure that there is enough money in the municipalities for dignified care for the elderly should be about the years 2011-2015, when we were in an economic crisis. I would say that we covered the demographics as a whole. When we left government offices, more money was spent on welfare than when we entered them, even though it was an economic crisis. I think it is more relevant today to discuss the huge savings that the VIVE report, which we are here on the basis of, shows and which have affected not healthy and bodily elderly, but weakened and functionally impaired older people, and how the government's view is that what the Danish People's Party is asking is that it should not continue. That should be the discussion that the rapporteur of the Left also entered into here today. I would think that was considerably more relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135250	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135252	Fortunately, I am now in charge of what kind of discussion I think is relevant. And I think it is extremely relevant when Mrs Astrid Krag swings up and says that it is quite awful that there is not enough money, and when you were responsible, you cut down. The explanation is that it was economically narrow that it was a hard time; one had to cut down and there was a crisis. However, it will not be the case that, at the time when we were actually responsible for giving priority to this country, priority was given to reducing corporation tax and top tax, and, on the other hand, priority was also given to cutting the overall economic framework for the municipalities, overall by 3.5 billion. kr. over the period. How can it be that you do not want to admit it and then just explain what the reason was for priority being given in this way? Then we could at least take the discussion on a factually informed basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135339-2	I simply do not think that the rapporteur of the Left is quite interested in hearing my answer. In any case, he repeated exactly the same speech he made before, so I cannot give so much more than the same answer. Overall, we covered the demographic trait. When we left government offices, more money was spent on welfare than when we entered them. We deposed Denmark's first older billion, we made the first rock map scheme that has since been developed, not so much because of the government, but because of the Danish People's Party in the finance negotiations and thanks for what it has been important for the older area in recent years that you have been there in the negotiations. And then we are in an economic situation now, where there is money to hold hands under welfare and care for the elderly. That is what I am trying to reach out and say: should we not agree on that today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135418	Thank you. I would ask you not to use a flash up in the gallery. You can photograph, but you have to turn off the flash. Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135426	Thank you. I would just like to come back to what the question today is also about, namely how to ensure and ensure to the municipalities that care for the elderly is given sufficient priority in the country's municipalities. The question is then put to the Minister for Finance, and the Minister for Finance also explained it and said that there is a desire for more quality across the municipalities. That is where I think it might be very interesting to go a little further on what the Socialists really want here. It could be that at some point in the future the Socialists were given the power of government, and what has been done about it? Because one thing is talking about the past, another is talking about the future. That is where I would like us to get some sort of overall vue, and that we also did not drive too much around in individual cases, although of course they can often give us an overview of what is actually happening in the area of the elderly. But could the rapporteur not try to clarify very clearly and simply what the Socialists really would like to see happen in this area, in order to ensure that in future there is a worthy home help and a dignified care for the elderly that everything is worthy of the elderly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135531	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135532	Thank you. It's a very big question to reach in those 30 seconds. I would say that the introduction of quality indicators could ensure the same quality, and hopefully it could also be used to improve quality where what is going on with our elderly people is not appropriate. We fully support that. We were in the first agreement almost many years ago. I guess it was the first deal in the gaming field that was made with this government. That's where we put money to develop these quality indicators. It may upset me a little that we are standing here four years later and have not moved on, because part of the key here is clearly to become much wiser about what kind of care you provide and what it really is we mean when we talk about dignity, so that we can also make sure that it is found everywhere. Then I would say to the Danish People's Party that I know the discussion and the logic of whether or not we should earmark funds. We earmarked our own older billions. That means too, and I am not pale to admit that it may be a necessary and possible way to go, but it has turned out, and there I might be interested to hear what the Danish People's Party is thinking, that it only works in the limited years for which the money is earmarked. It is also a problem that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135641	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135642	There is no doubt that this is a challenge, but there is also a responsibility on the part of the individual municipality to continue to run some initiatives • what to say in house when it comes to ensuring dignified care for the elderly, and that is on very many parameters. If we want to see a situation in which we will continue to see municipalities which do not give priority to the area and which may even fail to comply with the legislation in this area, what does the rapporteur think about sanctions against the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135714	Overall, I believe, and this is also what I hear many mayors say, that if they could cover the demographic move and not start every year with austerity budgets, they could also take care of the elderly in a dignified way. Since this question was called for, a new study has come from VIVE, which shows that the municipalities will also be underfunding the elderly in the next year, and when you look into it and see why they are doing it, it is because the municipalities are being pressured by the specialised area for children and young people and for adults and by health costs. And I am very concerned about what the many more health tasks laid out in the municipalities will mean for the elderly in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135756	Pernille Bendixen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135759	I would like to follow up on Mrs Karin Nødgaard's question. What are the rapporteur's thoughts on sanctions against municipalities that do not comply with the law? And that, in fact, can be transferred to the children's area. It is an increasing problem that municipalities, like little, do as they please without having consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135817	In relation to the specific situation, I must say that I have had the Minister for the Elderly in the Chamber with regard to the discussion on the quality standard in Assens to hear her, if you cannot reach a point where you are breaking the law, as you are asking just now, in other words, where the quality standard has been lowered so much that you do not actually meet the obligations of the Social Services Act. The Minister could not answer that question. If even a minister with the whole office in his back cannot answer that, then it will be a very abstract situation we have here. So I think that is something that needs to be clarified, and I hope the Minister is doing so, because I think that is what we all need to know, that is to say what the requirements of the Service Act are, in terms of what the limits of how low a quality can be are. Hopefully, the quality indicators we get made can help to make it much more qualified when we discuss it. Because right now, and this is what the Minister of Finance is saying, the discussion is becoming very subjective, that is to say, to me It is very subjective. Now I am not a lawyer, but it is not the case that one can judge whether or not legislation is complied with in relation to how one feels about it subjectively. We also know the situation from baths, where there are some elderly gentlemen who should not enjoy anything of being hewn in time and early, they have made a long life without it, etc. I therefore hope that these quality indicators, when they come, will help us to get closer to this, so that there are limits to how low quality can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135938	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313135941	In relation to these priorities, i.e. cutting cards, dignity billions and other things, I would say that there is a reason why we are earmarking them, and that is precisely why we can see that the municipalities are simply giving priority to spending that money on something else. It is not because we think it is fun to earmark the money, it is because we can see that the area of the elderly is not a priority. And there's also the fact that when these periods are over, the money is taken and used for something else. This is also happening in municipalities where there is a Social Democratic mayor at the end of the table. Is this something that we intend to do more about so that we can make sure that the things we have prioritised from in here continue to be prioritised even if they are not actually earmarked in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140019	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140021	Well, it's actually one of the ideas that lies in our self-government reform... Finance Minister, it's not called the hands-away reform, but the self-government reform... and it's a new approach to this thing with earmarked projects that are pool-financed or contract-funded, but where we have a hand in dealing with it. Now Mr. Jep Jakobsen, that there are no 220 employees on the administrative corridors in Holbæk, and well for that, to make applications. After all, there is a single or a half or a quarter or a few, and then there is all the bureaucracy that it also brings out in everyday life when you have to settle. In this way, there is something unhappy about it when we have to follow things so closely, because it is time to leave the elderly. On the other hand, we also recognise the need, but I think we need to have a new governance, and I cannot elaborate on that here, but we can talk about that over a cup of coffee or something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140103	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140105	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag for the rapporteur's speech. Fortunately, I could hear that there are a great many things we agree on when we have to invest in better care for the elderly when the government changes here after the next elections. What I would like to ask a little is that with quality standards and such things, because there is, in fact, a verdict from Køge which says that there is no lower limit to how much the municipality must cut for economic reasons. There, of course, we have had the discussion in the past about the possibility of introducing minimum rights, and it can be said that this is reflected a little in what the rapporteur is talking about in relation to quality standards. But will the Social Democratic Party be open to introducing minimum rights, not so that people have to be forced to do something, but so that they have the right to receive some kind of help?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140202	Now I think I also said earlier that I am not a lawyer, but as I understand the Køgedomen, the conclusion here was that one must reduce already allocated aid on the sole grounds of economic considerations. So it wasn't such a macro-assessment. However, for those citizens who have been searched for a certain amount of help on the basis of an overall medical assessment of their needs, it is possible to reduce the amount of aid allocated, even if there is no medical justification for it, but only an economic justification. That's how I understand the Køgedom. That is not enough to clarify the wider discussion that we have in the Assens case, and the Minister for the Elderly said so clearly when we had her in the Chamber. She can't answer whether what you've done in Assens is legal or not. I guess we're all waiting with great excitement to get some clarification of that. I would say that I generally believe that we should be careful about introducing minimum standards, because people are different, and I think that, in our care for the elderly, we need to be more able to take into account the fact that people are different, have lived different lives and have different wishes. And we can also quickly risk that minimum standards will then become the level that is everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140309	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140310	But now we are also talking about minimum rights. I would like to hear the definition of what the difference is between having some quality standards and having some minimum rights. For minimum rights are probably more individually oriented and can just reflect that people are in different life situations and that these are different things they need help with. But what is the fundamental difference between discussing quality standards and minimum rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140335	I guess that depends on who formulates what kind of rights they are. Quality standards are, after all, the level of service established by the municipalities. After all, what we are discussing here today is also the quality indicators that we hope will be able to create and which can cross the country. These are the ones I think can be a hook to get this discussion on what is, as it were, the bottom level in relation to our legislation, so that those quality indicators can help us get a better understanding of what is the bottom level of quality standards in the municipalities. If it was not clear that that is what I meant, then I hope it makes more sense for the rapporteur now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140407	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. We need the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. We are beginning to have a bit of a bad time if everyone is going through and everyone is also going to have justice in terms of being able to get questions and comments etc. Yes, it may be that I will have to intervene at some point. I would, of course, like to hear everyone who joins, but just think about the fact that there is limited time. Then I don't have to talk about time anymore either. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140436	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again highlighting the relationship of the elderly with the current VIVE report as a starting point. This is something that I think we can say is of concern to all of us, at least to us in the Left, so that there is a dignified care for the elderly, who have a need for it, and that we also organise our policy on the elderly in a way that we can say takes account of the new generation of older people, in which there is much more room for individual solutions, where there is, of course, a great deal of difference between what is then asked for. There are older people who are really weak and who need a very, very large and personal help, and then there are others who need to have other opportunities. Nor is it any big news that the government and the Danish People's Party also give priority to the welfare of the elderly, and that is, as has also been said before, among other things. have been demonstrated by significant improvements in the service framework of the municipalities over recent years' economic agreements. Because we must not fail to say that it is in the municipalities, within the service framework and within the legislation which we adopt in this Chamber, that it is the organisation of care for the elderly, and there must be an opportunity to give priority to it, and there must also be the possibility of being able to organise it individually. There's, like, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen also rightly said that there is a great difference between the various municipalities and also the way in which the elderly need help and need help, and that freedom must continue to be in local self-government. However, to mention just a few headlines from the financial laws of recent years, we have mentioned that there is the dignity billion from 2016, a clipping card scheme of just under 400 million. kr. from 2017 to extra home help, in 2018 there were 0.5 billion. kr. for better staffing in home care and nursing homes and care centres, and with the latest Financial Act for 2019 there are a wide range of measures for the benefit of the elderly in different areas, both in the economic area, but also in relation to means of combating loneliness and much more with it. That is how the elderly and welfare areas will be given priority when we have at least the responsibility of the government, which is at some point contrary to what has been seen. Because one thing is what you say, but you can only be measured by what you do. When the Social Democrats were last in charge, of course, they tried to decorate themselves with golden chains and borrowed feathers and say that there was probably also a crisis and that that was why they had to cut down on the municipalities' finances and thus the possibility that a decent and proper care for the elderly could be run, at least if we measure it alone in crowns and ears. The point was that even there was, of course, also an opportunity to give priority to the amount of available resources that would be within different frameworks and that was then not chosen to do so. No matter what you say or how you wind up today, it's just a fact. Anyway, I'd be a little worried if I sat there and looked into it. Should the accident happen and there was a new government with the S at the end of the table, is it fine what you stand and say now, but can we count on it? At least that was not possible the last time we heard about this. So in other words, we will of course put the line that has also been drawn in recent years in close cooperation with the Danish People's Party, on how we can organise an elderly care, which has both an economy, but where you may most probably think that the elderly are not so interested in knowing how many billions we spend, and that we are fighting over who spends most of the time looking at what it is for some concrete measures that come out of it for the elderly. It is both in relation to the hands that are needed, which is indeed a huge challenge. It is perhaps the biggest challenge to get the hands drawn at all to solve the task.• Help for those who really need, introduction of technology to remedy some of the tasks, so that there is also better room for personal contact and care. Then I just want to say in conclusion that I don't want to be measured by how much money we spend on that fight we have, in a way, provenly won, but that's not what I'm interested in being measured on • I'd like to be measured by what it is that we can deliver out at the individual elderly by worthy and good care of the elderly of high quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140846	Thank you. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140847	Thank you. I think the interesting thing here is to look at what we are going to offer the elderly in the future. We have been through under-funding of welfare in recent years with Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, and we can now look at new figures from VIVE that the municipalities themselves, with the financial law that the rapporteur has now examined, will be saving in the area of the elderly, because there are costs that are pressing from the specialized social area and from the health sector, which are of course bound by law. Elders The case has been out to flag a very great deal of concern that all the new health tasks to be moved out will have a cuckoo effect in relation to the care of the elderly. When you can already see with the health tasks that lie in the municipal community that they are taking the place from the investments in care for the elderly, I would just like to ask the rapporteur what he has to say about the concern of the Elders. I also share it in the sense that care for the elderly will be even more squeezed in the future when much more health tasks are to be moved out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313140952	Should I understand that the Socialists are opposed to moving health tasks out and closer to the citizens? For me, health is also something that really means a lot to older people. All other things being equal, it is the older citizens who, you might say, are also drawing on health, and when you are older, you are, in many cases, also less mobile, which is why it is only a huge advantage for the elderly that health is moved closer. In my opinion, it is also a question, as is the case in other areas, of organising a health policy where, of course, you can solve the tasks, but where the money that needs to be brought in is also moving along, and that is also what I can see in the government's proposal in relation to a health reform. There is a priority for moving the tasks closer, and that is, of course, something that will benefit the elderly today when we talk about the elderly, but of course the funds are moving with them. So I don't see any kind of cuckoo effect. Then I just have to say that in my rapporteur's speech I forgot to say that I should welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal for adoption that Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen read earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141051	Thank you, and you can say that. You just mustn't give a speech to the rapporteur for others. Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141058	But that is precisely the problem. For the Left rapporteur says that the money must, of course, keep up, but that is not part of the government's plan. After all, the government has not set aside any money for the tasks that go ahead. There the government says that money will come over the years, and just take it easy, trust us. That's what's bothering me. 'Cause these aren't little maneuvers. We are very much in favour of creating a more close healthcare system, but the structure and money must be in place before moving treatments out. It is 500,000 treatments that no longer need to be in hospitals, and it is clear that it is enormously worrying when you see what it has meant in the municipalities with the tasks that are pressing on in the specialized social and health sector already today. So there's nothing obvious about that money. There is no such thing in the government's health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141142	But intuitively, when you move tasks out, you can look very specifically at • and it is like what is being proposed in the health programme, where you say that by being able to treat more people, runners and others, closer to and avoid them entering specialised hospitals, it is simply also a cheaper solution. So, we know that when someone comes into the hospital, it is simply a more expensive solution per person. patient on average, than if you can, as it were, keep patients out locally. So it is the simple calculation that is the basis, among other things. for the health issue that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141214	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141215	Thank you. I just wanted to hear something. For now it seems that this debate today is about "or at least it says on the sign behind the rapporteur's attitude towards local authorities, and the rapporteur said that it should not be measured by how much money is spent, and I agree with that in part. The money is important, but, of course, things other than money must also be measured. However, it says in the proposal for adoption that the Folketing calls on the government to target more funds for the elderly by means of this year's economic agreement, and I am actually pleased about that. Can the rapporteur elaborate on this? I am therefore pleased to see that the rapporteur himself is involved in this proposal for a decision to allocate and target more money to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141308	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141309	Yes, but the starting point is that we have municipal autonomy, and I think we should stick to that, too. But that does not change the fact that we from this House are setting the overall framework, both in terms of the total economy and, moreover, in terms of various measures, both in the area of the elderly, in the area of children, in the field of health, in the field of education and in all sorts of other areas, which are part of what you then fill and follow in the municipalities afterwards. That is the reaction we can say, together with the Danish People's Party, to the VIVE report, and as the conclusion, if any, this proposal for adoption, should be, so that with the economic agreements that lie, with the framework that can be agreed with the municipalities, we can further target the elderly area, then we think it would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141353	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141354	So does the rapporteur recognise that it is not just a matter of priorities in the municipalities that they give wrong priority when you hear of some examples that are not good, in relation to who gets home help and who doesn't get it? And when you say that the government will target more funds by the financial agreement of the year, is it because the government wants to put in more funds? Or how are we supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141424	I do not want to generalise and say that the overall priorities are wrong. For it is fortunately 98 different municipalities that have 98 different economies and starting points and everything else within the framework we put in here from the house. But there are examples and they will always be there, unfortunately, I was saying where you can see that priority is given to other things than what you can say is the core welfare, and there I see the elderly area, also in the municipality, as part of the core welfare. That is just where I call for you, of course, to have your nose in the tracks and focus on what is most important, and then what we are proposing with this proposal for adoption is to say, when we make the next economic agreement, that, within the framework we agree with the municipalities, we give further priority to the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141506	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141508	Thank you. I would really like to follow up on what the previous rapporteur also mentions, namely whether the municipalities have enough money to carry out a task when the reality is that, as two new citizens need help, they only get money for one. Moreover, it is at the same time that we must also take care of all the health tasks which, among other things, have to be dealt with. The rapporteur's government has been promoting for years not that I think this is a bad idea, I do not think it is, but it costs too. And sometimes it has been evidently at the expense of the weakest elderly, who did not just need treatment, but just needed help to get in the shower or help to get something to eat or some other thing, but not the proper treatment. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a lack of money to carry out a task where more people will need help?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141605	Well, I think that when we talk about care for the elderly and it's not just something I think it's also something you get to know when you're out talking to people in this area... the most important shortcoming is not money, it's hands. In other words, we can hear examples of the fact that when you look up positions in the care of the elderly, home helpers and others, there is not going to be the relevant number of applicants you need, despite the fact that the money has been set aside for it in your budget. So, of course, the hands are a challenge. But of course it is also about having an economic framework, but also about looking at how to prioritise that economic framework. Now we have mentioned this a little earlier with Mrs Astrid Krag, but I have to say that health and the elderly are also a little connected somewhere, because health for the elderly is also part of having a decent care for the elderly, where you get the treatments that need to be done. That is why I do not think it is possible to separate these two things. But last of all, of course, it is also a matter of prioritising both how to prioritise from here in relation to the framework we set up, but also how the 98 municipalities choose to prioritise within the framework that they work with in the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141709	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141710	I agree that this is also about the health of the elderly. It could also be for citizens with disabilities for that matter. But VIVE has just recently produced another report, namely on the cooperation between the emergency units in the hospitals and the care of the elderly in Esbjerg, which shows that the citizens are very pleased about this, because some continuity is being created and they see that there is quality in the work being done. But you can't prevent rehospitation. And this also shows that there may be a lack of money if we give priority to spending money on something that costs money but does not have the effect that the government requires, namely that we can prevent 40,000 admissions. What's up?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141752	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141753	I never think that whether you talk about the elderly or the children's area, about education, health or what it is you get a situation where you say: then we have enough money, now there is simply so much money that we can't spend another penny. I don't think so. So I think that we or our successors here in the house as well as people in the municipalities will have to give priority every day within a given financial framework. I think that the example of Esbjerg, or other such examples, is precisely helping to underline the point that you can make coherence in things and simply get more out of the money and get a quality that is raised by adjusting your structure. That is the way we should go, and we should not be measured alone by how many billions or millions or whatever we are measured on, which we can use from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141835	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141836	Thank you. After all, there is a difference between the level of priority given. And what has become quite clear in relation to the VIVE report here is, of course, that we have an elderly care that is extremely pressured. We can see from the figures that the number of employees per year. elderly people have fallen by 4.2 per cent. Just in the last few years. The cost the municipalities spend on the individual elderly has also fallen. This is at the same time as what we can see from the VIVE report. We can see that this is an area that is extremely pressured. Elders The case then says that there is a need to add 4.4 billion. kr. to be able to raise the level in relation to the demographic trait. The Ministry of Finance itself reports that in order to solve health tasks, 12.5 billion is needed. kr. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is envisaged that expenditure should still be kept within the existing framework for growth in the public economy of 0.3 per cent, or does the rapporteur recognise the need to provide additional funds so that it does not mean that priority should be given to the various areas, so that it is the day-care institutions that have to pay for the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141945	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313141946	But it's such a nice theoretical approach to have. We can start with the demographic move. It is possible to make such a mathematical calculation, and the Ministry of Finance has done so and, in its reply, emphasized that this is precisely a theoretical consideration, because in reality one extra elderly person will not be exactly as, you might say, economically costly as the average of all the previous ones. There are, of course, some synergies, and there are some fixed costs for different things that you can say you can share on one extra elderly person. Similarly, when you talk schools... After all, there is not the same cost to the 20th student in the class as to no. 19 and the previous ones. There is also a school teacher, there is also some light and warmth, there are all sorts of other things. So that's where the chain gets rid of the demographic move. Then I just want to say something about this, about whether you should fill up and that the money should keep up. Well, here again, it's about saying that it's 0.3%, or it's 0.5%.? It's about how to get that money. Sir. Jep Jakobsen was among others. in writing. - (DE) If you choose to make a policy where you have additional expenditure on refugees, for example, then you do not have the money to spend on the elderly, but you have shown that you have a spending framework that has increased by 0.3 per cent, 0.5 per cent, 0.7 per cent, but there is not one extra penny for the elderly at all. You have gone to the refugees, in the example of Mr. Jep Jakobsen from before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142103	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142104	Otherwise they have gone to the tax reliefs. That's what some people are handing out cups in relation to, that's to say, pride themselves on, that you've given out 27 billion. kr. in tax reliefs. It was also an opportunity to look for them there. But I just think that the figures we see in the VIVE report are quite clear, given that there has been a strict priority which has led to deterioration. Because when you clean the figures, including for the help of a spouse, also in relation to rehabilitating efforts, there is a decrease from 36 per cent. 25%. in the number of persons being searched for help. Surely this must be an expression of the fact that the economy has become tighter, because it is people who really need help, but where it has become more difficult to get help. So unless it is because the municipalities deliberately want these elderly people not to be helped, it is probably because they have been forced to give priority from a strict financial framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142157	As I said before, I do not think we will ever get into a situation where the financial framework is of such a nature or size that it is said that that is enough and that now we simply do not need any more money. May I just remind you that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is standing here again singing the usual song that one could also have chosen not to lower some taxes. So, sorry, the last time Enhedslisten had the opportunity to support a government, they did exactly that; then exactly they supported a government that cut down on the economy of the municipalities, including for the care of the elderly. On the other hand, top taxes and corporation tax were reduced. That is what was done under the government supported by the Enhedslisten. I'm sorry, but that's how it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142234	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. I have to say that, unfortunately, I have to cut a little away from the question round so that there is only one comment, otherwise we will just not be able to keep to time. There must also be an opportunity for the rapporteur if there is time to come to a conclusion, as well as the Minister. So we're gonna have to make everything work out. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142256	Thank you for that, President. Nearly half of the elderly today receive no help, either from family, friends, home help or privately bought help. In 2007 it was one in three who did not receive help. Weak elderly people are older people who themselves consider that they cannot perform one or more work without help, such as: to go outdoors, put on clothes or take a shower. Even among the weakest elderly, who need help for more than one everyday task, there are many who do not receive help. Developments appear to be due solely to the fact that much fewer people today receive home help for practical tasks. This is the alarming conclusion of the VIVE report, which is the reason for the urgent request that we are holding here today, and which the Danish People's Party should also be thanked for having called. The figures speak their own clear language. The number of disadvantaged elderly people receiving practical assistance has fallen from 43% in recent years. 25%. Even when you clean the figures for the effects of rehabilitation and the elderly who have a spouse to help, the decrease has been marked from 36%. 25%. Among the most debilitated elderly, the proportion that has to fend for itself without help has risen from 17 per cent. at 29%. For the last 10 years. The figures cover human fates, citizens who have had a clear and justified expectation that when they grew old and gradually lost their ability to function so that they could not cope with ordinary everyday activities, they would be entitled to help, an aid that would ensure that they could maintain independence and dignity. Instead, they have experienced rejection when they have taken the step and applied for help. If they have been given the help, it has been laundry every four weeks or cleaning every three, four or as many as every five weeks. Each of us can consider for ourselves how satisfying it would be to have laundry for 14 days or to have the toilet cleaned every five weeks when we cannot handle it ourselves, even if we want to. But that is the reality for many older people today. The consequence is clear, an imminent risk that we will have an elderly care that is divided into an A and B team, where those who can afford can buy themselves for extra help, where those who have resourceful relatives can draw on help while those who do not have are left to themselves. 73,000 poor elderly people do not receive help from the public or from others. They are left to themselves even if they indicate that they have a clear need for help. This is the consequence of several years of starvation of care for the elderly. Over the last 10 years, 6.5 million home help hours have been cut in the municipalities due to a stressful economy. If, at the same time, the increasing number of elderly people were to be compensated for during the period, 5,8 million hours really would have to be added. This means that if the service level were to correspond to the level in 2008, 12.3 million hours would have to be delivered more than today just to keep the level from 2008 when it did not flow with milk and honey in the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, developments are continuing. The last year alone is the cost per year. the elderly over 75 years decreased by 2.9 per cent. Number of employees per year the elderly over 75 years have fallen by 4.2 per cent. The last two years. This shows a marked failure to care for the elderly. If development is to be reversed, it is absolutely necessary to provide more resources. The Elders Case estimates that from 2008 to 2017, where 3.4 billion have been saved. kr. in this area, instead of adding 6.6 billion. kr. That is why it is absolutely necessary to let the municipalities out of the economic leadership in which changing governments have put them. At the same time, we need to look at minimum standards where the funds go along so that we can ensure a decent level of service. The Køgedomen made it clear that there is no lower limit to the level of service. Finally, it is absolutely necessary to recognise that rehabilitation is not a magic trick which, along with the idea of healthy ageing, solves the problem. Rehabilitation can be a good addition as an offer, but one has to realize that it requires an investment before one can reap revenue. It takes time to teach people skills so that they can take better care of themselves. I hope that the debate here will make it clear that there is a need to invest in our care for the elderly so that anyone who has a legitimate need for help can have it. It should be a matter of course. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left and Socialist People's Party, I shall read out a proposal for adoption which has been through red block reduction and efficiency work and has therefore been shorted to sound like this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to ensure that municipal budgets at least follow the increasing number of elderly people, so that we can afford to take proper care of our older fellow citizens without the municipalities being forced to make savings in day care institutions, schools and other welfare areas. • V 84).
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142741	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142745	Thank you. I am glad that Enhedslisten is also aware that the elderly should be well. It is, of course, the case that we are faced with an early parliamentary election, and I have previously heard such talk about lines in the sand and red lines and things that Enhedslisten feels should be fulfilled in relation to whether it should be a social democratic government that should govern. Is the area of the elderly covered by such a sort of red line, where you say: we have some requirements here that we do not accept that you compromise with some excuse for an economic crisis or something, in relation to the fact that you do not want to spend the money that you may have promised to spend in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142832	Well, it could be that Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten should sit down together and agree on which red lines we should draw up to point to both one Prime Minister and the other Prime Minister candidate. Well, we are not holding government debates here, but it is clear that we see it as one of our objectives that the welfare area should at least be lifted and that it is one of those areas where there must clearly be a difference in whether a possible prime minister is Lars Løkke Rasmussen or Mette Frederiksen or Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142901	Then there are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313142914	Thank you for that, President. The reason why we are standing here is the report that VIVE published via the Elders Case on 24 February, a report that has been used in public as if weak elderly people are not getting enough help. Overall, on virtually all parameters older people have a better life now than ever before in the history of Denmark. The group which has seen the greatest increase in disposable income over the last 20 years is pensioners. They have seen almost twice as much progress as the 25-59-year-olds. Never in the history of Denmark has the otium for the elderly been as far as now. The pension period has just never been that long. This is due to the fact that life expectancy has increased explosively in recent decades and that fortunately the longer life expectancy is accompanied by several good years of life. This is also confirmed by the VIVE report, which shows that the group of the weakest elderly compared to the rest of the population has halved from just over 9%. at just over 4.5%. Politically, many resources have been given to the elderly since the elections. Since the election the elderly area was lifted with just over 2 billion. kr. By comparison, the Social Democratic Government reduced spending by 3.5 billion. kr. So this is an extraordinary hypocrisy on the part of the Social Democrats and the SF when they turn this discussion into a question of resources. The municipalities spend more than 45 billion. kr. in the area of the elderly. That's a big amount. And fortunately, the satisfaction with the service the elderly receive is very high. When doing user satisfaction studies, 80-95 per cent correspond. of the elderly, that they are satisfied with the service they receive, depending on area. But, of course, there are things that can get better. There are municipalities which have different priorities. Some will prioritize schools over nursing homes or vice versa. That is the nature of the matter when you have local government autonomy. Municipalities have different priorities and not all municipalities are equally good at making efficient use of resources. The good thing about municipal autonomy is that the municipalities can learn from each other. Municipalities have the freedom to do things in different ways. That's good. This allows local knowledge to come into play. Having said that, we must of course make sure that the targeted resources that we allocate at Christiansborg are spent on what they are actually allocated to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143234	You're welcome. There is just one brief comment. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143240	Thank you. We were told not to ask questions, but we can do that anyway, just once, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143257	I have just replaced the chair, so I have to find out what the President meant. There must be one brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143258	Good. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for the speech. Following on from this debate on demographic trends and public expenditure, I can read that Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party is quoted as saying that the Left went to the polls on zero growth and that the Conservatives and Liberal Alliance took the lead in the fight for minus growth. It was a description of the time up to the last election and an explanation that the level we are at now is due to the fact that the Danish People's Party has moved in the right direction. I'm actually just interested in hearing what the Liberal Alliance is going to vote on this time. Will it be a requirement for negative growth in the public sector or zero growth or the level we are at today, or maybe I do not think so, but one could hope that the level needed to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143339	Well, we do the same thing as we did last time, where we also took account of the demographic trait, but under one we thought that every time the public sector spends DKK 100, the public sector can rather than spend DKK 99, because there is a potential for efficiency. This is not something we have come up with ourselves, but is due to the fact that the government of which Mrs Astrid Krag was a part reduced the Productivity Commission, which concluded that if the worst municipalities can learn from the best municipalities, there is an efficiency potential of 10%, and we of course think that this should be exploited. After all, social democracy has the wrong idea that what we have to discuss is what enters the public sector when what we should be discussing is what comes out, because that is what matters to citizens. It is not whether public spending or public spending is increased by a few percent. That's what kind of service you get on the other end. And now that there is such potential, we believe that it should be exploited. But that's the hardest part. The easiest thing is to stand and promise more money, I am well aware of that, but sometimes the hardest thing is what should be done, rather than skipping the bottom line of social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143459	Thank you. There are just two more points to make, and the first is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143504	Thank you. It sounds like the Liberal Alliance is actually going to the polls on minus growth. The report here from the Elders Case and from VIVE shows that it is really difficult to get searched for elderly care, and there are some who simply do not get the help they themselves think they need. That is why old Einar, over 90 years old, could not be searched for a nursing home as long as he was able to press a button for help. So now that the Liberal Alliance is so preoccupied with handing out tax breaks, so you even have cups... it's 27 or are 28 cups it's up to? Or does the Liberal Alliance simply not think it is true that there are older people today who do not receive the help that they need, because care for the elderly has not been given high enough priority in government budgets?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143606	No. We do not think that any of the tax concessions that have been introduced are expendable. We don't. And I just have to repeat that this one-sided focus on how much money you spend has failed. What should be focused on is what comes out on the other end, what it is for a service that is experienced, and we have plenty of knowledge in this area. There is a chance to make things smarter and better. A few years ago, the OECD produced a report in which they pointed out that Denmark was one of the most searched countries, so that in some areas we probably had a slightly relaxed visitation, but it has probably been tightened up, and that can be very sensible. And then I think that if you ask citizens what they themselves think they need, the need can also be endless. This does not mean that there can be no citizens who are not treated well enough, but if you ask them what they need and if that is good enough, the need can also be very, very great, and politicians have to give priority to many different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143728	Thank you. The last to a brief remark is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143733	Thank you. I now find these very interesting academic considerations, which Mr. Joachim B. Olsen does, in relation to the economy of care for the elderly and such, but what the VIVE report relates to is reality, and that is precisely the reality of the citizens who need help. We have citizens who experience that even if they need help, even on the basis of objective criteria they are not self-reliant, they expect us to be able to step in here with help. The figures speak their own clear language: Home help has become much more difficult. And it is not a question of using best practice or anything else. This is a general picture of how the status is in the care of the elderly in Denmark today. That is why I just want to ask the rapporteur whether it really is the view that this is just a question of some municipalities not doing it properly, and if so, why we cannot see it in the report and why we do not see that there are some municipalities where things are going very well. The general picture shows that there is a general problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143839	Well, it is the case that when there are more elderly people, you also have to allocate more money to that area. That's just plain logic. Where logic breaks and where the left-wing is abusing this concept of demographic trait, there is where it is assumed that the last elderly person to come in costs the same as the first elderly person. That is simply not true. It does not take into account the demographic features, it does not take into account economies of scale, does not take into account the fact that you can increase productivity or do things in new and smarter ways and maybe provide better treatment for fewer resources, but there are plenty of examples of that. Absolutely! When there are ten thousands of older people, you may find that some people are mistreated by the municipality. You can. You can also experience that there are older people who will never think that it is good enough and that there is always something they should have help with that they do not get help with. That's the way it is. So it's extremely complex. But the fact that municipalities can learn from each other, that things can be done better and more effectively in many places, I will stick to that, because there is good evidence of that is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313143953	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313144001	Thank you. It is heartbreaking that we hear about so many older people in Denmark who live lonely lives and have a sense of senselessness and helplessness. It is sad that there are older medical patients who are sent back and forth between municipalities and hospitals without, for example. to get a proper rehabilitation plan, without getting the care they need, and without being seen as the people they are and with the individual needs they have. First of all, I would like to thank you for calling today's question debate. The elderly must be able to meet their old age safely, and that is why it is important that we discuss it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. One in eight older people over 74 years of age has poor mental health. In the alternative, we recognise the demographic challenge facing municipalities, with an increasing number of elderly people, we recognise that it is a major challenge for municipalities that expenditure on the elderly area is increasing, and we recognise that therefore, in many cases, municipalities are taking the money from other areas, for example. from day-care institutions and primary schools. This is problematic, and it is therefore sensible and important to look at how municipalities can be compensated for the costs of increasing numbers of elderly people. It is sad and wrong that 29 per cent. of the very weakest elderly with two or more job reductions are completely without help, as the report from VIVE shows. In the alternative, we believe that at the same time there must be a change in culture, an effort in which we focus on health promotion and preventive initiatives, and we believe in the alternative that much more attention needs to be paid to the social element. In order to improve the well-being, there must be a clear focus on the social element in the activities offered to the elderly. It is also one of the conclusions of a literature study that Aarhus University has made for the Danish Health Authority. In addition to improving the quality of life in older people who thrive because they focus on the social aspects of their activities, good mental health can also help to protect against physical and mental illness. Therefore, there is a need to focus on the well-being of older citizens and in this way try to create a good quality of life while at the same time preventing them from becoming ill, so that they have a good and independent life for several years, and that is of course a huge plus. So, in addition to lifting the area economically, we also need to think about new things. I heard about the project yesterday, and the example here is that 83-year-old Annelise helps 53-year-old Massoumeh, I think her name is learning Danish. This is an example of how to create content in the lives of older people. Let me just say that 83-year-old Annelise is blind. And this creates well-being and joy and content in the life of Annelise in 83 years. We need more such projects in the Danish care of the elderly, and we need a culture where it is much more about social matters and about having meaning in one's life. On the question of home help, I would say that every 10 weak elderly people themselves pay for cleaning and cooking, and with weak elderly people it is therefore thought that they are not able, for example. to walk around the home, wash, take clothes off and on. This is deeply problematic and it is quite unacceptable that we should have an A and B team where the richest can buy themselves for help, while the rest do not get the help they need. It is not only the municipalities' fault, it is all our responsibility, because there is a huge difference between the municipalities' finances, depending on whether we are talking about Brønderslev, about Hørsholm, or where it may be. There are municipalities which, year after year, are involuntarily experiencing minus growth. So we can't just blame the municipalities. That is why, in the alternative, we believe that we need to allocate more funds to the area of the elderly, and then we need to start thinking about it completely new, creating meaningfulness in the lives of older people so that they can thus increase their quality of life and their well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313144438	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313144448	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for calling this urgent question about the deteriorating visitation to care for the elderly. Demography is probably the most widely used word in various debates on care for the elderly, and that also applies to today's debate. Translated into everyday logic, it's all about the current generation of older people just counting a lot of citizens. It is the generation of my parents from the 1930s and 1940s that has now reached or approaches 80 years, that is, those who, after all, reach it. Most of them have had a hard working life, where physical wear and tear has left their mark, but they have also lived at a time when medical development has gone fast, and they have both contributed to and benefited from it. Pension schemes were first invented in the middle of their working life, and for many unskilled jobs it is also so with the fat pension life. The VIVE report confirms what we know, namely that the help that our parents should receive is increasingly being scraped. We therefore also have a lot of stressed relatives who find it extremely difficult to get the ends to reach together when both helping with sick grandchildren and sick parents. Therefore, Minister of Finance, there is no point in a policy in which those who have the most must still have more. It is a political responsibility to take stock of demography and the general state of the population and to organise society accordingly. When two elderly people need help, the municipalities have only compensated for one. This has been the case during this period of government, and it means, in short, that more elderly people must be shared over the same too few resources. Add to that that everyday life in the care of the elderly is often chaotic, because the municipalities do not get enough staff employed, the fear of exceeding budgets and thus risking financial consequences on the part of the finance minister causes many to hire too few and supplement with loose temps. Therefore, the government also finds it extremely difficult to achieve the objective of preventing admissions by citizens who are in contact with the care of the elderly, because time is an important factor if the employee is to be able to observe the conditions that may become risky • it is everything from incipient pneumonia to urinary tract infection, foot ulcers and such kind of • and knowledge of the citizen is no less important if one is to have a chance to assess the general condition. Older people do not dream of becoming dependent on help, as one might almost get the impression that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur thinks. Nobody thinks it's great to have a lot of people running around the home. That is why I would just like to highlight a few good, important SF proposals, namely to ensure that municipalities compensate for the increasing number of older people and to allow municipalities to organise the work so that citizens primarily meet well-known employees, because what can appear expensive in the short run is both cheaper and better in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313144754	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments, so the last speaker is the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313144809	Thank you and thank you for the debate on care for the elderly. After all, it is a debate which has been started on the basis of a question of what is the financial framework for care for the elderly, but I still think that it has been wide-ranging in various forms. I would like to try to get it back to what it really is for an economy we make available to the municipalities, because there is the division of labour within the Danish People's Rule that we in the Danish Parliament provide a financial framework either through municipal agreements or through finance laws, and then it is decentrally in the municipalities that these frameworks are put into practice in the specific care of the elderly. The fact is that when the Social Democratic led government took over in 2011, a level of municipal service expenditure had been agreed in 2012. After leaving government offices again in 2015, a service framework of 3.5 billion had been agreed. kr. less than the ones you took over. So, at the agreed levels, we were down by 3.5 billion. kr. If you start from where we were in 2015 and look at where we are today in 2019, we're up 2 billion. kr. It therefore makes the difference between the two government periods that the agreed service costs were reduced by 3.5 billion. kr. In the case of the Social Democratic Government, it has increased by 2 billion. kr. under the Left Government. I mention this here, even though it may be a bit boring talgymnastics, just because Mrs Astrid Krag probably mistakenly or by way of a statement came to say that under the Socialist-led government more money was spent on welfare. What was agreed was to give less money for welfare along the way. It was also agreed at the time with the budget law, implemented by the government of which the SF was part, to introduce a budget law with what Mrs Kirsten Normann now calls severe economic consequences if it was exceeded. It was in this way the government of which Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen's party was part that introduced such a budget law. I think it's right. I think it is right that there should be consequences if the framework is exceeded, because we can look back in the '00s and, incidentally, back in the 1990s, that the Danish economy risks being overheated if we do not manage developments in the public sector. What, then, is the development of the public sector that we need to get to grips with? Yes, it is, among other things, that there will be more older people in the future. Although I believe that there will be more elderly people who are healthy and bodied, and although I believe that there will be more elderly people who will be active, among other things. in the labour market, we must also face up to the fact that the more elderly and the longerevity at some point mean that we all need some help and assistance. I believe so personally that when I get old, if I get old, I'd rather have a help that makes me able to take care of myself, i.e. rehabilitating help than I want help, which means that some people come and do a job for me. I would rather that technology tools allow me to organise my everyday life as easily as possible, instead of helping me to get out of bed, to handle my toilet visits or anything else. I believe that the developments we have seen over the last few decades in the area of the elderly will continue in the coming years, when we are getting more and more service tools, technology tools and other things that will enable practical assistance to be delivered more efficiently without costing the same cost as an average citizen has cost up to now. That doesn't mean just to avoid a misunderstanding that we don't need any more money in this area. I think we should, but I think it is a little too mechanical to believe that by looking in the rearview mirror and seeing what the past has brought us from expenditure, we can also know what is going to happen in the future. I think we should look out of the windshield and look at what is of opportunity and rejoice that in 98 municipalities there are hard-working employees who, with their creativity and effort, deliver a super good quality to a lot of older people every day. We often hear about all the terrible examples of some who do not get the service that we think they deserve. At the end of the debate, I would like to pay tribute to all the public sector staff who provide a good service every day to the elderly who have earned the good service.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145223	I have three comments to make briefly, and if everyone respects the 1 minute speaking time, we will be able to do so before closing the urgent question at 1 p.m. 15. The first to a brief remark is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145236	Let me just back very, very warmly on the rose for the employees out there. They do a huge job, and often it is against all odds because they experience that there have been fewer colleagues in nursing homes in recent years, and they experience that it has to go faster and that they have to reach more elderly people in the running home care. Now we could hear the Liberal Alliance rapporteur here describe how the Liberal Alliance is going to go to the polls to make the public sector more efficient by 10%. And then we're back in the old discussion about minus growth and zero growth, and you disagree with the government, and the Danish People's Party has got a little too big bills drawn than you might actually have imagined from the government. Now we are close to a parliamentary election, however you turn and turn it, and then I just want to hear the Minister for Finance what he thinks the level should be for public growth. So what do the Minister for Finance and his party think? What will be the starting point for negotiations on a future government in relation to public expenditure?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145331	The Minister of Finance believes what is in the government base. When, at some point, the Prime Minister chooses to have parliamentary elections, I shall gladly tell him, as a candidate for my party, what I and my party mean in this area. But today I stand on the floor as Minister of Finance. And we believe that there must be moderate growth in the public sector. We believe it is true that every year a little is added to what we spend on welfare services in Denmark. But first of all, I believe that what is important is that we also look at the money we are spending in advance. And maybe that's the difference, that is, I'm not just looking at what you can add to the additional amount if it's 0.3, 0.4, 0.5 or zero comma some number we're talking about. I'm looking at the 100% we're already spending, and I think we're spending some of the money wrong. Just to repeat it: I am pleased that we have managed to control the influx of refugees and family members, which means that we have been able to move more than 4 billion. kr. in gross expenditure out of the cost of family reunification and refugees and then on to other tasks, including: on welfare benefits in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145430	The next brief remark is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145435	Thank you. Can't I just hurry to say that I'd rather be on my own, too? I think everyone will. I really don't think there are any older people who think it's great to become addicted to help. We can talk aids another time, but the thing about affording to compensate citizens is also a subject. And super-good employees I actually think the municipalities are doing very well. But whoever has done what, if we then find that something is not working, then I suppose we have a joint responsibility to do something about it. So if the budget law now results in inappropriate behaviour, for example. that you can't hire more than 75%. of the permanent staff, then suddenly you risk it is not a manageable area, it is an uncontrollable area, and that means that the tasks vary from day to day • that the budget lightens the lid. That's why you have so many temps, and that's why you get so chaotic everyday life. If this system does not prove to be sustainable, do we not have an obligation to do something about it and then, of course, also make sure that there is, after all, enough money to take care of more and more citizens who need help?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145541	When the Budget Act was adopted, agreement was reached, among other things. Therefore, there should also be a revision of the budget law. However, I have to say that the tasks that have been in the Ministry of Finance over the last year have meant that we have had so many balls in the air that we have not achieved the objective of doing the analysis. There are many tasks that, for some reason, always land over in the Ministry of Finance, and that is why we have decided here recently to postpone a review so that we take it in the autumn. Then we have the opportunity to complete the analyses, and then we have the opportunity to discuss in good order before Parliament's deadline for tabling legislative proposals, what really needs to be changed. Because if the budget law, for example... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. If it promotes that you cannot hire permanent staff, but have to deal with temporary workers, then that is a problem. But remember to keep up the problems posed by the budget law against the problems it has solved, namely a problem of massive over-consumption, we looked up through the '00s, a problem of over-consumption that was still in the early years of the decade, and an over-consumption in the 1990s that was even greater. We have come out of this precisely because the budget law sets a tight framework, and it also gives us a good position to stand in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145656	I still have two brief comments to make, and we also need a little time for rounding. The next brief remark is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145705	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. Now the minister said we should look out of the windshield. It's always nice with these language images, but now I want to say that what we've got here with VIVE's report is also just a look in the rearview mirror. It is, of course, a picture of the fact that the efforts that have been made have apparently not been good enough. Now we are a little under pressure of time, which is why I would just like to limit it to asking that, when we find that there is a backlog in the care of the elderly, that there is a need to add more money just to get to the previous level, is the Minister of Finance willing to increase public growth, even if it is in a carambola with the budget law, so that we can catch up so that the elderly are not put in this position?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145749	The Budget Act has no problems with public growth and public growth has no problems with the Budget Act. These two things aren't connected. It is a question of whether more revenue will then be collected in order to bring about higher growth in the public sector. What we, as a government, have said is that we are willing to spend some more money. We believe that the tax should be kept in order and that the Danes should be allowed to keep some more of the money they earn for themselves, but at the same time there should be affording good welfare. That is why we have said that there must be balanced growth, moderate growth. It will also be forward-looking. We say in the proposal for adoption, as Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen read on behalf of the government parties and the Danish People's Party that we would like to target the funds forward to the elderly area when we talk about municipal agreements and municipal economic agreements in the future. That is why we are willing to invest something more in ensuring that money comes out to this area, but I also think it is important to keep each other up, that we should also look at what quality indicators say something about what is good quality for the elderly, who say something about whether what we deliver is actually worth the money as well. It cannot be an end in itself that it is expensive, the goal must be that it is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145858	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313145901	Thank you. I would like to ask a little more about that, because of course it is not an end in itself to put in more money if there is no need for it. However, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is quite unacceptable, and I can ask the Minister, that we should have an A and B team where even the weakest elderly people who cannot go around themselves and cannot put on their own clothes simply cannot get the help they need, for example. cleaning and home care. Now, the text here is about getting in touch with the municipality, and the minister himself mentions this point in targeting these economic agreements and the negotiations there. I would like to hear: what does that mean? Will the Minister and the Government or the Left put more money into the area, or is this just about telling the municipalities to use it and then take it from some other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150006	We have clearly indicated that we are ready to spend more money on the elderly in the future. This applies both to the health of the elderly and to the practical care of the elderly. But I think that when you look at the challenges we face, we also have to look at what kind of systems we have built up, i.e. whether they are effective enough to cope with the more elderly. One of the problems we have is the health of the elderly, compared to what it is to a system that is built up. We are currently trying to negotiate and Mrs Schnoor knows quite well about a health reform in which one of the ideas is precisely to help the elderly patient better. In relation to the elderly and care, it is planned that when we make the municipal agreements, we also attach importance not only to giving the municipalities more money, but also what they need to spend it on • not because we have to manage it in detail, but because sometimes we have to put emphasis on something to promote it in the municipalities. We have chosen to do this, for example, in the agreement with Danske Regionser, where we chose to give priority to psychiatry. I also believe that when it comes to making the financial agreement for 2020, we must give targeted priority to some funds to strengthen the area of the elderly in the municipalities. I'm ready to spend some more money, the government is ready to spend some more money. This is the question of how we not only spend some more money, but also spend the money that is, wisely and efficiently.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150118	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party, for a short rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150126	I shall be very brief and just thank you very much for the debate and note that proper and dignified care for the elderly is clearly at the heart of all the parties of the Folketing. Even the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur recognised that more elderly people are demanding more money, and then we have actually achieved quite a bit along the way, I think. Finally, I just have to sign up to the governing parties for cooperation on the proposal for adoption that we have, which clearly states that more money needs to be spent on the elderly. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150158	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked for the floor... time has also passed... the debate has ended. As I said, the vote on the motion for a resolution will not be taken until Thursday 14 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150220	We shall continue with the agenda, and perhaps there will have to be some time to move away from the special arrangement here. I think we can continue. I have to inform you that Mr. Peter Kofod under nr. 1 asked questions, spm. No. S 623 to the Minister of Justice at the request of the author. At the same time, I must inform you that Mr. Mikkel Dencker under nr. 7 questions raised, spm. No. S 530 to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that the Henning Hyllested under nr. 14 and 22 raised questions, spm. No. S 618 and S 617, respectively, to the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, are deleted at the request of the author. Finally, I would like to say that there have been new questions, Mrs Lea Wermelin, to the Social Democratic Party, on question No. 15-- it's spm. No. S 621 to the Minister of Taxation instead of Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. The first question (pm. No. S 619) at Wednesday's Question Time is a question to the Minister for Finance, and that is asked by Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150340	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150342	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister believe that the government's proposals for tax reductions continue to cover government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150426	Now the world looks like it used to, from my usual place. It is, after all, a very broad question as to whether the government's words on tax relief are still valid. If you're just trying to put a little yellow post-it in where we've written about taxes, you can see that it's a lot of places. In other words, it is still a matter of concern that we want to spend the money with care, so that we get a solid welfare and service at as low a tax as possible. It is still important that we want to reduce taxes and taxes, so that it is cheaper to be a Dane and cheaper to run a business. It remains to be seen that we would like to see the PRS tax abolished. It remains to be seen that we want to clean up excise duties. That is a very broad question. I believe, in fact, that the government's basis is far-reaching. There are, however, some things we have to say that we have tried to do, but we have not been able to get through. For example, we would be presenting a proposal for job reform 2 on lower taxes on labour income. So did we, but there was no majority for that. I would have liked to have seen it because it had given a LO worker a far greater gain than what we ended up having; it would have allowed the opportunity to reward people who make an extra effort; it would have meant that it had become more attractive to take up work or qualify in Denmark. So it would have helped to make the Danish economy stronger if it had been implemented, but then there was no majority for that. Fortunately, we did something else or perhaps the same, just to a lesser extent. We carried out a reduction in taxes on the lowest incomes in Denmark, and we carried out an increased deduction for those who save up for their own pension, so we ensure that it always pays to save up for their own pension. And it's two incredibly important things that it pays to work and that it pays to save up and with what we did with job reform 2 together with the Danish People's Party, we ensured that both things happen and that the Danes generally get more money between their hands in a responsible and financially sustainable way. That is why I believe that the government's words about tax relief are still in the hands of believers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150633	Then I'd like to narrow it down a little bit more. That was the overall statement, but if we then narrow it down a little, then we are at the point on page 33 of the government base that is about fewer people having to pay top tax, which really was part of job reform 2. It is therefore clear that the government wants to reduce the marginal tax and that the top tax must play a much smaller role than today, because it costs growth and employment ■ that is the wording of the government base. That is what I really need from the Minister for Finance, namely whether that is the government's position. For now the Minister for Finance has told us a little about what has happened historically in the last parliamentary term, but I think there are many people who would like to know whether it is really still the policy of the government, because there are various political reports from the governing parties that we need to find our heads and tails in. However, we must take as a starting point that it is actually the government's view that it would like the top tax to be reduced and that a significantly fewer would have to pay top tax, that is to say that the top tax limit would have to be significantly increased a little a la what was proposed at the time. What I want to hear is: does the Minister of Finance still believe that it is adequate for what is the government's policy? In other words, if there were a majority in favour of it, which was not at the time when this job reform 2 proposal came, would it still be the government's position to reduce marginal tax significantly and reduce top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150824	Yes, it is clearly the government's view that significantly fewer Danes have to pay top tax. I actually thought that was Mr. Jesper Petersen's position, for the policy that has been implemented since the change of government has, of course, been aimed at maintaining the tax reform adopted in 2012, and it is therefore a tax reform in which a social democratic government gradually raised the limit of top tax • In fact, under a social democratic government, it has been decided to raise the limit of top tax right up to 2022, so significantly fewer Danes pay top tax. And if you make a comparison, you can see that in 2012 there were 732,000 Danes paying top tax, while in 2019 460,000 Danes paying top tax. In other words, if I had to applaud the Parliamentary Chamber, I would like to applaud the tax reform which was carried out under a social democratic government, but which probably had only the content it had, because the Left went in and negotiated it, among other things. had the top tax limit lifted significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150922	Thank you. I would just like to point out that during Question Time there are some questions and answers which have only 30 seconds. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313150926	It was now already in the game then, even before the Left was in the picture, that it was intended to raise the top tax limit. So we think we have done enough. And it is as if the Minister of Finance is not really going to be aware of the policy of his own government now, because what is, after all, a statement of what was really a deal, at the time the government took over government power. However, since then, new proposals were put forward for new reductions in the top tax base, as indicated by the government base, and as stated in the proposal put forward. Are they still adequate for government policy? In addition to what was agreed in 2012, would you like to reduce the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151006	In other words, I actually thought that we were just over in the general political corner and the friendly teasing when I look at the questions that have been put to me, both the present and the next, in relation to whether I agree with one or the other of my colleagues when the government's policy in this area is quite clear. We want a lower tax for the Danes, we do not have any current plans to change income tax at the moment, we have implemented our tax policy in relation to income tax, we have lowered it for the lowest incomes, we have increased the deduction on pension savings, and we have ensured that it pays to move from unemployment benefit to work and we have ensured that it pays to save up to its own pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151047	Then it is the questioner's first question, and there is one minute for the question and one minute for the answer. Here you go to the co-questioner, and that's sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151058	Thank you, President. And when it has been established in this way that it is the government's policy to reduce the marginal tax, is it also very obvious that both the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance are saying that they want to reduce the top tax, a rise in the top tax limit, in the alternative, in the next term, to ask the simple question: is this then something on which the government is elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151127	The minister. And there's one minute now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151128	I could have asked similarly inspired by the fact that the Minister for Integration just came into the Chamber: when the SF and the Enhedslisten elect to loosen the immigration policy, does that mean that the Social Democrats are going to vote to loosen the immigration policy? But let's just leave it this time. We do not go to the polls to do anything other than what is in the government base. It is the government base that is our starting point as a government, and in the government base we believe that significantly fewer Danes should pay top tax. I've got one of them. in my first answer to Mr. Jesper Petersen explained that this is actually going to happen; it is going to happen that fewer Danes pay top tax because we gradually raise the limit on when to pay top tax. We do not have any current plans to introduce new measures in the area of income tax. I am glad that we have reduced taxes for the Danes, and I am glad that we have provided the Danes with cheaper cars, we have provided security for the housing tax, and we have reduced taxes for companies and, above all, for people who go to work and earn their money to create value in this society. That is why we have a tax policy for which I am in favour, and I am in favour of what is in the government base, but not of the things on which other parties may say that they want to go to elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151237	Here's to the co-questioner, and there's 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151239	Then, when it is stated in the government base that the government wants to reduce the marginal tax and that the top tax should play a much smaller role than today, that is also what the total VLAK government is going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151258	In other words, we are going to vote to implement the agreed reduction in top tax. It was during the questioner's government that we agreed to relax the top tax, and we are not going to roll that back. In fact, we would have liked to have been able to speed it up so that the policy that the Social Democratic Party would like to see implemented came more quickly. There was no majority for that, unfortunately. Because that would have meant that even more people would have been freed from paying top tax more quickly. I really think it is fair that a foreman, a nurse on the night shift, a doctor or anyone else who works in the service of society, should also be allowed to keep a little more of what they earn, to themselves, by setting up the top tax limit. And it will be in the coming years; it has been until 2019, and it will do so until 2022 with the policy we adopted in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151345	Thank you to the co-author and we are back to the main questioner, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democracy, with 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151350	Thank you. It is good that there will be some more questions, because the Minister for Finance is completely out of the question. One simply no longer wants to be familiar with one's own policy. It is made to be a roll-out of previous governments' policies. The essence of what is in the government base is that you wanted the top tax to be significantly reduced, and it was then proposed to take concrete action beyond what was already there before you came to it, and you have to answer for that. It seems to be the policy of the government, which is still thought to be the policy of the Minister of Finance. He just can't really get the words out of his own mouth anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151423	I can do that now. I think that those who have heard me during the day do not think there are any problems with the absence of words; some will say that too many words come out. However, I answered the question on the very first speech that came. In other words, I told you about our policy, and I told you about what we have been trying to get through, and also that we have recognised that the policy contained in the government base on this point could not be implemented and what we have then implemented instead. And those who have followed are intelligent enough to perceive it for the first time, which is why I do not need to repeat it, which is why I have answered other parts of the questions afterwards. But I should like to repeat it again: we would have liked to make a greater relaxation of the top tax, but there was no majority for that; on the other hand, we have implemented a relaxation of the tax at the bottom and a relaxation of the tax for those who save up for their own pension so that it always pays to work and always pays to save up for their own old age.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151510	Thank you, and thank you to the questioner and the questioner. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Finance, and the next question is S 627, which has been raised by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151525	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151526	Thank you, President. Does the Minister agree with the Minister of Taxation when it states to PolicyWatch on 6 February 2019 that "It is a matter of duty for a bourgeois government to lower the tax burden?'
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151542	The easiest thing would be just to say yes, because far along the way I agree with the tax minister. However, there are some things about the tax burden that make it a really bad means of measuring which tax policy you are pursuing. For example, if stock prices suddenly go up, there will be a great deal of money entering the treasury in terms of profit margins and pension income tax, and then the tax burden will actually increase for a year, even if taxes were reduced. Therefore, the tax burden in my optics is not a very good tool, but if you turn it down a little and recognise that there may be fluctuations that have not been politically decided, then I think it is a civil government's job to reduce taxes and taxes in Denmark, especially in relation to lowering the tax burden, because if you introduce what the Left said in the 2001 elections and then we would go to the polls, namely a tax freeze, and if there is growth in society, the relationship between tax revenue and gross domestic product makes the tax burden in the long term fall. So unless you have a desire to raise taxes, in other words collect more money from the Danes and make sure that the Danes have to dispose of even more money for the public, you will find yourself in a situation where the tax burden will gradually decrease. What has happened in recent years is that, precisely because of the tax cuts adopted and because of the tax freeze, we have been able to see that the tax burden in Denmark has been slowly decreasing not year by year, because there are the fluctuations that I was talking about earlier, but gradually so that we are today in the situation that Denmark is no longer the world's highest taxed country measured by the tax burden. It is indeed France that has taken over the position, because while Denmark has had a slight fall in the tax burden, France has had a clear increase and is now more heavily taxed than we are in Denmark. I have no wish that the Danes should go back to first place. It may be a world championship that I don't want Denmark ever to win again. That is why it is my attitude, a little like that of the tax minister, that it would be good if we could reduce the tax burden, because that means that the Danes can keep some more of the money they earn to themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151747	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151748	The tax minister said in the past week to the daily newspaper Børsen that his objective is to reduce the Danish tax burden to 40%. It might be very interesting to hear whether this is a view that is widely divided within the government, but we can just come back to that. After all, we now have a little time. What is most important is to remember and remind ourselves that, at the same time, there is a public sector which constantly requires some attention if we are to be able to keep up with demographic developments. Popularly said: with the number of more children and the number of more dependent pensioners coming in, the current government's economic policy has led to the fact that for every time there are two new caring pensioners, the government has allocated resources to one. This means, of course, that over time we will experience a erosion of public welfare, while at the same time it is the economic policy of the present government, which we have already mentioned in the previous question, that there will be tax cuts; that, as a civil government, we can understand that the tax burden will have to be reduced. So can the Minister understand if there are citizens in the quite Danish country who have the clear view that this is a downward rate of taxation, which is primarily paid for by welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313151921	No, it is a tax screw that is paid for by moving Danes away from transfer income and into the labour market. I mean, it's a relief of taxes that, among other things. come, that we have increased the supply of work, which means that far more Danes get up in the morning and go to work. Since the 2015 elections, more than 161,000 Danes and foreigners working in Denmark have worked in the private labour market. At the same time, there has been a small increase in the number of employees in the public sector. So we have a labour market where more people stand up to have something to work with. It helps to reduce both expenditure and increase revenue, and it helps to reduce taxes and taxes while at the same time having money for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152005	It is easy to claim that there is an increase in the number of public employees, but it should also be borne in mind that it is not necessarily sufficient to keep up with the demand that exists when there are 5 000 more patients in the healthcare system and that over the same period 4 more employees are employed throughout the country. Then it is not because it means that the employees have better time. In fact, it means that the employees run far, much stronger. So it is a truth with modifications that sufficient funds should be provided for the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152039-2	But it is not enough just to measure the total number of public employees. After all, there is a difference between whether you have employed people under the Minister for Integration to accept the number of refugees and family members who come to Denmark, as was the case under the previous government, where you had to employ a lot of people, or whether you have people employed under the Minister for Health or the Minister for the Elderly to deal with the weak in society. In other words, the fact that we have managed to control the influx of refugees and family members to Denmark means that gross expenditure in this area has been reduced by more than 4 billion. kr. from the peak to the level we have here in 2019. That's 4 billion. DKK, you can use some of them around the world to improve conditions for persecuted and refugees, some of them at home in Denmark to raise welfare. So it's wrong just to look at how big the frame is. You have to see if you spend the money on the right thing if that's what we want. And I would much rather spend the money on the elderly, on the sick than spend it on receiving more refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152133	Then it is the co-questioner, and that is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. And there's one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152137	Thank you. It is a little special as a child's rapporteur to have spent both Monday and Tuesday and today on discussing the situation in our day institutions, as the DR showed in a documentary on Monday, at least in some places, and at the same time have a government which, in those very days, announces that you are celebrating tax concessions with cups and that you are dreaming of a tax burden of 40%. That is why it is interesting for the Danes today to know what the position of the Finance Minister really is and what they are planning to do in the future. That is why this is the issue. Where's the finance minister in that? In other words, the Minister of Finance knows what the prognosis is, both for the elderly, for the sick and for the children. Compared to the children, we're talking about 50,000 more children until 2025. That's a lot of them. And the Minister of Finance would like a lower tax burden. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152248	I mean, a lower tax burden, a tax burden of 40%, I can really deliver without it costing anything on welfare. It is only a question of moving around on direct and indirect taxes and then you can move the tax pressure up and down as you like. So the tax burden is for me to see, as I also said to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht in the beginning, a really bad remedy. I want the Danes to be allowed to keep some more of their own money for themselves, yes, but at the same time I want us to have money for welfare, including the children's area, the elderly area, health. And the reason we can do both is because we are moving people from transfer income into the labour market. By moving people from public support to self-support, we save expenses, while at the same time getting tax revenue. But most importantly, people who previously had nothing to stand up for in the morning get a content in their lives, they get a working community, they get to use their resources and their competences. And that is why the government has done the right thing, where we have increased the supply of work and increased the work effort by means of various measures • we have had more than 161,000 employees in the private sector since 2015. It gives a stronger economy, it gives less spending, it gives more revenue, and it gives more Danes, first and foremost, who have something to stand up for in the morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152404	Then it's the co-questioner, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152404-2	However, it must be a little paradoxical for the Danes who have seen the documentary about our day care institutions and who deliver their 230,000 children in the morning in an institution where they hope that there will be both development and presence and developing moments throughout the day with competent adults so that they hear that it doesn't seem to have any consequences, that they dream of getting lower taxes in this country, and that it is about how much money people have in their hands. That must be paradoxical. It feels like it is not the reality in which the Minister for Finance finds himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152440	I find myself in the reality where I can see what is of the facts. What kind of budget was agreed with the municipalities when Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen's party was in government? From 2012 on, a budget that my government helped to make fell the framework for municipal service expenditure by 3.5 billion. kr. Towards 2015. When you were in government last time, you cut down on what the municipalities might use. From 2015 to today, we have increased the service framework by 2 billion. kr. So what I think the Danes think is funny is how the Social Democrats puff themselves up in opposition and then cut down on the municipal economy during government periods. We saw that from 2011 to 2015, I hope we won't see that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152527	So we're back at the main questioner, and it's still gone 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152531	I would just like to conclude by thanking the Minister for his open and straightforward statements that, in his opinion, it is a matter of duty for a bourgeois government to reduce the tax burden. I think that is a clear message to the citizens in a situation where they are going to vote shortly. I do not therefore have a supplementary or more detailed question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152556	Then I would like to take the extra time to say that I think we should have a society that can afford the basic welfare benefits. That is why I also believe that we should have growth in public expenditure in the future. I think it is important that there is room for us to accommodate more elderly people in the public sector and more in our hospitals and for our children to have a good start in life. I do not believe that this is contrary to the fact that we can both work to reduce taxes and taxes on our businesses, increase competitiveness and ensure that more people enter employment. The Danish economy is stronger today because we have got more people into work because we have made sure that Danish companies can hire more people and because we have fewer people on public support. This allows us also to spend more money in the public sector within an economically viable framework. This allows us to have both lower taxes and more welfare at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152647	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. We'll continue with question 4. It is also for the Minister of Finance and has been raised by Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. And here, too, there's a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152658	Here you go for reading. We're waiting for the microphone.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152659	Does the Minister disagree with the Minister for Justice's statement in the Stock Exchange on 25 February 2019 that the top tax is an envy tax, and does the Minister also disagree with the current government base, which, in line with the Minister for Justice's statements, states that the government is working for fewer people to pay top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152739	Here you go, Minister. It's two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152742	I don't walk around like that and name what's jealousy taxes. Is car taxes an envy tax because it is a progressive tax that makes the most expensive cars more expensive? Is the share profit tax, the share income tax, an envy tax? The top tax is a tax that makes the widest shoulders in Denmark bear the greatest burdens. I think that is actually fair. Then you can discuss whether it is too heavy a burden to put on those shoulders. Are they put on shoulders wide enough to carry such a burden, or should a little less pay top tax? Actually, I think a little less people would have to pay top taxes. If someone's been following the first questions today, they'll be wondering if it's a ribbon loop they're inside. Because it is actually the case that fewer people are going to pay top taxes. They do, because in 2012 under a Social Democratic government, the Left helped the then government to raise the top tax limit so that fewer Danes would pay top tax. It's actually still happening in these years. As long as there is a phase-in time, there is usually tax reforms that, although it has been a long time since 2012, the whole phase-in is not in place yet. So both this year compared to last year, next year, the year after and the year after, you will have an increase in the top tax limit, which means that fewer Danes will pay top tax. This is entirely in line with what is stated in the government's constitution. I think it is excellent and fully in line with the agreement we helped to conclude back in 2012. Why is it all right, then, that fewer people pay top taxes? Yes, it is because those who are currently paying top tax, but in future they will not, are some of those I would call the core forces of the labour market. It is people with medium-term education, or it is people who have taken an extra responsibility. That is, for example, the case. people working on night shifts or having changing working hours. It is drilling bishops or people who travel around the world and set up wind turbine towers that help ensure that Danish economy is in progress. They are the ones that are being hit today by the top tax, and I do not think that is fair. I think that the top tax should hit a few fewer people • ministerial salaries and so on, which I think is quite fair, but not the salaries it affects today. That is why I am pleased that the border will be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152951	The questioner. It's two minutes for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313152952	I would like to thank the Minister for an answer that was a little double, both on the practicality of where the limit should be, but also on the more such principle, which I think is fair to have a turn on, namely how we really look at the tax system, and whether the Minister agrees that having a top tax rate does not where it is and how high it is, etc., but at all, having a top tax rate is the expression of envy. In fact, I think it is very positive to have a finance minister who dares to say that it is okay that the broadest shoulders bear the most, and that this is not just one long reproof of those who have the most in our society, but that it is about things being connected and that those who have the most must also contribute more. So thank you for making it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153039	However, it is a basic position that I have that in a society that must be united, we ensure that we help each other and that those who can help more must also do so. The widest shoulders must carry the heaviest loads. I think that is quite the right principle. Some have thought that the burdens have been too heavy or that some of the shoulders have been too narrow to carry such heavy loads and such things, and that is how we have danced around. But that does not fundamentally change the fact that, as far as I am concerned, a tax system must have solidarity funding by the fact that those who earn the most also pay the most. Then we can discuss the nuances of limits and percentages, but the principle is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153119	Thank you. After all, the heart of the Social Democrat is warmed when the Minister for Finance speaks of the widest shoulders having to bear the most. What we can look forward to in the coming years is that there is a lot to bear if we want to ensure time for the presence and dignity of both our children, the sick and the elderly. That's why it's also an interesting discussion to have exactly in these years when we have rise times, and where the Danish economy is well, how we spend that money. And the Minister of Finance therefore insists that there must be more money in people's pockets rather than carrying out the task of ensuring time and presence in everyday life for the very many more children and sick and elderly who are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153201	I mean, there's money for both. With the economic policy pursued by the government and with the success we have had in getting more people into employment, we can afford to let the Danes keep some more money for themselves. We do, among other things. by lowering the electricity tax, we are doing this by lowering the tax on cars, we are doing it with the new housing tax agreement, we are doing it by lowering the tax on income. So there is a wide range of initiatives that allow the Danes to keep a little more to themselves. At the same time, however, we can actually afford to have a room for manoeuvre of 27.5 billion between now and 2025. kr. Part of that room for manoeuvre, the government has said that we will spend on increased welfare, on increased security. The rest lies as a reserve to be decided year by year, as we reach 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153246	Thank you. And then we'll make room for the co-questioner, sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153250	I also think it is good that the Minister for Finance does not think it should be called an envy tax. And there are good reasons for having the distribution policy that lies in having a top tax. But I would really like to see whether, apart from the choice of words, the Minister of Finance agrees politically with what the Minister of Justice is proposing. In other words, if there were a majority in favour of what has not been in this parliamentary term, fortunately the Minister of Finance would then, like Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen believes that an additional 200,000 fewer people will have to pay top tax in 2023? It is, of course, very much in line with what the Finance Minister's own government has proposed in the past during this parliamentary term, which was not passed through. But in addition to the terms and all that the Minister of Finance really agrees politically that this should be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153352	Well, I don't have any ideological objection to lightening the top tax. I haven't. But that's just not where I see the biggest problems in our tax system. I think it is a problem that, despite the many initiatives that we have taken, there will still be about 25,000 Danes, perhaps up to 29,000 Danes, for whom the benefit of getting into employment is less than 2,000 Dkr. a month. I think it is a bad thing in a society that the gain from being publicly supported to being in the labour market is no greater than DKr 2 000. a month. And even though we have taken many initiatives, and even though the agreement we made with the Danish People's Party lowers the number, there are still these 25,000-29,000 Danes for whom getting to work doesn't give much extra. I think that is a problem. So, in my opinion, it is a problem for society if not being in work brings an economic benefit. There can be a lot of other good reasons for the working community, feeling that you can be used for something, to keep moving, etc. So if I had a room for manoeuvre and a majority behind me right now, I would rather give priority to us having something done in the future about the residual group for which it is not entirely worthwhile to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153505	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153507	It was the first five seconds of the Minister of Finance's reply that were the important thing here, namely where he says: yes, if there was a majority in favour of it. And politically-ideologically, the Minister of Finance thinks it would be good for the widest shoulders to carry a slightly less heavy load than today. And the rest of the answer is then a total repetition of what happened prior to the last election, where the Left also said: No, it is not so much about top tax; it is some other groups that we focus on. When elections had been held, the Left now proposed in government to reduce the top tax significantly. So I think that is just an important piece of information for the citizens out there before there should be elections before that very long. It's exactly the same thing. You don't say it that loudly, but you want lower top taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153553	I can barely mention any taxes I don't want to get lower. In other words, if it was possible to maintain the welfare society we have today and lower taxes, I can hardly mention any taxes that I would not like to reduce. In other words, it could be taxes on green electricity, VAT, car taxes, income tax, interest rate tax, stock margin tax. I can hardly mention any taxes that I would not like to reduce if it were possible to maintain the society we have today anyway. The point is that I said from the outset and for the first five seconds: I am not ideologically opposed to lowering the top tax. I hope not, sir. Jesper Petersen is, because then Mr. Jesper Petersen committed an ideological breach of principle. The then S-led government actually relieved the top tax in 2012, and I assume that you did, because you were not ideologically opposed to it, when you could also see that you could practically afford to finance it. Then it did not really matter that the nuclear forces in the labour market were allowed to keep a little more to themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153655	Thank you. Then it is the main questioner and we are back on a 1⁄2 minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153659	Thank you. After all, it is all a matter of priorities, and it is a question of where you want to give people more money between your hands, if you have the opportunity, and how you use it in times of rise. I personally would like us to use the good times to invest in, for example. training. The government is doing the diametrically opposite. I would also like, when we have the prospect of a great many more children, the sick and the elderly, not to undermine the offer they have, and therefore not to give the money to reduce the top tax. But where does the Minister of Finance stand? Can't we just get a very clear answer as to whether there are fewer people who have to pay top tax if it's up to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153741	You have to remember to say the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153744	I have no plans to change the top tax, and if I had an economic scope to reduce income taxes, then I would give priority to lowering taxes at the bottom. Because I say where I think the most important problem in income tax is that the gain in getting to work is too small. I would have liked us to have created a greater incentive and what we proposed when we presented our policy in 2017 was, in fact, a greater relief from the exact taxation of the lowest incomes. We could not then agree to prioritize funds for this, and therefore we downgraded the part of the agreement we made with the Danish People's Party. But we actually relieved the treasure at the bottom. We relieved the tax on the first earned crowns, on the lowest incomes, while ensuring that saving up for his pension was worthwhile. What is our characteristic is, of course, that we ensure that working and saving for your own pension are both worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153836	Thank you to the Minister and the questioner. There are no more questions for this minister, so we continue in the series of questions, and we have reached question 5, which is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is asked by Martin Henriksen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153852	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153853	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that parents and their children who have been given their residence permit withdrawn or refused the extension of an existing residence permit may continue to stay in the municipality and their children may continue to attend, for example, an ordinary primary school and will the Minister change applicable laws and regulations so that the aliens concerned are transferred to an exit centre until they can be repatriated in accordance with the authorities' decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153916	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313153917	Thank you for asking the question, after all, about the rules for parents and children who have had their residence permit withdrawn or who have been refused the extension of existing residence permits. In other words, it is cases that are final and where the people it is about are therefore no longer legally resident here in Denmark. First of all, I would like to say that there are actually a great many possibilities in this kind of case, in relation to what they are going to get, because the legal situation depends, among other things. whether it is an asylum or family reunification case, whether it is a final decision and whether some of the family members have subsequently applied for asylum. It is also the case, however, that when you have been definitively refused your residence permit or have been definitively refused an extension, you have to leave in accordance with the time limit for leaving, which you are then informed of. If you do not, it is important to stress that you are staying illegally in Denmark, and then you have no right to work or receive, for example. social benefits. It is then the task of the police to clarify whether or not the family concerned actually contributes to the exit. If it is the case that the family does not participate in the departure, the Immigration Authority will require the family to stay at an exit centre. In other words, we already have rules on compulsory residence if a family is no longer legally resident in this country and does not leave voluntarily, and therefore I do not see any immediate need to change the rules on that point at the moment. Having said that, I would like to say that it is also clear that with the increased possibilities of including and also rejecting the extension of a residence permit, it gives us reason to be aware of whether the progress towards and, for that matter, also after a final decision takes account of these matters in the future. So I would say that this is something you have to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154144	The questioner. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154146	Thank you. There is no reason to hide the fact that part of the background to this question is the case that has been raised from Nyborg, where the extension of the residence permit has been refused. The family has been denied the extension of their residence permit, and then asylum has been sought, the children have applied for asylum. Because they have done so, there is then the possibility that they may then stay in the municipality, and one must assume that there are some who then pay their rent because they are not allowed to work because they are not allowed to receive public services from the municipality. In this situation, would the Minister think that there is a need to say that they should stay at a centre, like an exit centre or an asylum centre, and also think that there is a need to stress that the teaching should not take place out in a municipal school they are allowed to receive education, but the teaching should take place at an exit centre or an asylum centre and should be about how to prepare them to return to their country of origin • now that the authorities have actually decided in the first place that they should return home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154252	As I mentioned in my introduction, if you participate, there is like one set of rules, and if you do not participate, there is another set of rules, among others. It is also a question of where to live, but you do not have the right to receive social benefits. I have to say that with the new possibilities for involving and also the more involvements that we are going to see, I think that the time has come to try to look through some of these rules to see if they are up to date with the reality that we are now going to live in, where more people get their residence permit withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154339	I would like to sign for the Minister to say that there is a need to look through the rules, and there is a call from the Danish People's Party for the Ministry to get to work on that work, and also other ministries to do that work. After all, it is an interdisciplinary work which needs to be put into effect, because it also deals with education and certainly also with rules and legislation from other ministries. But one thing is that you want to look at the legislation, and another is whether you want to change the legislation. Is it to be understood that today the Minister has an opinion as to whether it is appropriate or inappropriate that, even if you have withdrawn your residence permit or have been refused the extension of the residence permit, you have applied for asylum, you can actually stay in a municipality and you can go to school in a municipality? Is it not more appropriate, in the Minister's view, if it is that one is transferred to a centre and that one can then receive education if it is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154432	In any case, I would say that we must always ensure that our system actually supports the broadcasting regime that we have here in Denmark, and that is why I think we need to look at it, but it is also absolutely correct, as Mr. Martin Henriksen says this isn't just in my ministry. It is in fact inter-ministerial, as Mr. Martin Henriksen also mentions here. I think we should confirm each other that it is absolutely crucial that we also have the opportunities to get these people sent out, which is necessary when people are sent out and can be sent out by Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154517	The questioner for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154519	Thank you. And again, I think it is going in the right direction, but it would be nice if we could get a clear answer from the Minister, and it is good that we can then agree that we need to find legislation or rules that basically support what we have agreed in the Finance Act on the paradigm shift in the return policy and which was adopted here in the Folketing. That's a good thing. However, it might also be nice to get a clear answer as to whether the Minister believes that, for example, teaching, if one considers that there is a need for children to be taught and that is quite fine with the Danish People's Party, then take place at an asylum centre or an exit centre or associated with it and not out in a normal primary school. Because when teaching takes place in a normal primary school, you risk giving the family the impression that their future is in Denmark, despite the fact that the authorities have actually once considered that they should be returned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154612	I do not, in fact, disagree with the fact that in this way we can put a tow in our eyes or do a disservice to some of these children and young people in the original sense of the term, and that is why I think it would be quite good to have the rules looked through. Now it is not all in my area, so there are other ministries that have to go in, but I think there are things we can do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154637	Thank you to the questioner. We have another question for the Minister, and that is Question 6 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that has been raised by Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154649	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154650	Thank you, President. The question is as follows: does the Minister agree with the integrationist Ruud Koopmans, who states in an article in Berlingske that Muslims are more difficult to integrate than other groups, that no Western country has succeeded in integrating Muslims, and that the cause is Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154713	I will not go into judging Ruud Koopman's article and research, but, having said that, there is no doubt at all to me that the number of non-western immigrants, many of whom are Muslims who have come to Denmark, is of great importance to the challenges we face with integration, and I would also like to say that we are not the only Western country that has experienced massive challenges in terms of the integration of people with a non-Western background. For me, it actually also gives itself that we have better opportunities to integrate immigrants who are culturally and educationally similar to the rest of the population. It is, of course, the case that we are not registering the religious ties of citizens, and therefore we cannot say anything conclusively statistical about the link between integration and religion, but, on the other hand, we know a great deal about how the citizens who come from non-western countries generally perform in relation to other groups. At the same time, it is just no secret that some of the people who have come here with a non-Western background are doing worse, for example. In terms of employment, we can see something in the statistics, and many of them are precisely characterized by the fact that they come with a Muslim background. That is why I do not think that there is the least to hide in this, and there is no doubt for a moment that some of the concrete challenges of integration that we have, among other things. is due to deep, profoundly reactionary attitudes in some Muslim environments............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... as a woman has her place in the home and not in society. A great deal more can be said about this, and it can also be seen from the statistics, namely that this non-western immigration costs these 33 billion. kr. a year. So there are also lots of statistics that support these exact words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154937	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313154938	It goes without saying that people coming from the western cultural community are easier to integrate than non-western immigrants. After all, we have been talking about non-western immigration for years now, including in DF, but I just think that it would be helpful for this debate to have a deeper spade. Sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten made some rather unsaved comments where his ignorance of Islam was revealed to be largely without holes. If you take the core problem of Islam then something I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on • I would say that I think there are two basic problems with regard to religion Islam: one is the Sharia trail, and the other is the doctrine of jihad, holy war. After all, the two tracks are extremely important in the Western European debate, and the interesting thing is that even if the question of integration is dealt with very differently, depending on the country concerned, whether it is France, Denmark or England or Germany, it is the same problems, it is the same problems. And I do think that the reason is perhaps not at all our chrome-plated integration plans about how chrome-plated and how good it can be, but that it is actually rooted in some cultural and religious prerequisites, or rather said in a different way, in Islam and the culture that stems from Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155126	Now there are several different ways of saying this, but I think that I said it very clearly in my introduction, namely that we can see statistically that, where it is particularly lagged, non-western immigration is, and we also know that a large part of non-western immigration comes from Muslim countries. So, yes, there's a problem, and I think you might as well say it as it is. Then I also fully agree with Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe in saying that we cannot identify a Western or a European country in which integration has gone well, we cannot actually do that. I also fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Christian Langballe in that there are completely different approaches to how to handle this, but no matter what you have not actually succeeded in doing so. It is, of course, both depressing and proof that it is absolutely essential that we have together tightened up our foreign policy considerably, because things are better now than they were before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155228-2	Thank you. It would also be going too far to say that Muslims cannot be integrated, for some have actually been. But when you look at it objectively, objectively, objectively, I just think it seems as if Islam and Islamic culture are a barrier to integration and, incidentally, also a barrier to development in Muslim countries. I don't think we're gonna do this any better until we call the troll by name, so to speak, and then say what really is the basic problem. After all, it is not people from Thailand who are difficult to integrate, and Chinese people are also relatively easy to enter the labour market, but there is therefore a problem with Muslim immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155321-2	But once again, statistics show that non-western immigration is problematic. It costs us 33 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. The financial bill is obviously difficult to pay • 33 billion. kr. There is a lot of money per year, but there is just a value bill to be paid which, in my opinion, can be almost priceless if you do not get a good grip on this. That is also what we have done together, because numbers mean something, and it is therefore vital that we, for example, should do so. The number of asylum seekers has been reduced very, very drastically.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155402	The questioner with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155403	Well, I'm happy that in relation to, among other things... the demands we make to obtain Danish citizenship, the number from Muslim countries has dramatically decreased to just about 20%, such plus/minus, from up about 60-70 percent. However, in relation to the whole integration debate and this whole issue of non-Western immigration, I think that there is still a fight with Islam that needs to be taken, and we need to do so if things are to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155442	I do not think there is anything else to say but that we have had a good discussion here, and we probably do not entirely disagree on these things. There are different ways of saying things, but it is obvious that non-western immigration costs 33 billion. kr. a year. It is also obvious that a large proportion of the people who come from non-western countries come here with Muslim backgrounds. As Mr. Christian Langballe himself says that it is not the case that no Muslim has integrated and is doing well, because so is it, but it is only immediately verifiable that that is where the biggest problems are and that one has to be honest about that, and if one is not, neither can one solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155529	Thank you to the Minister and to the questioner. Question 7 has been deleted, so we go to Question 8. It's for the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate, and that's what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155542	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155543	Thank you. And the question is: will the Minister explain why the Minister has repeatedly said that he does not want to introduce air fares at national level, as the government will instead work for air fares at European level when last week the government rejected the proposals made by Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands on common European air fares?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155611	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155612	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the question. It is essential that we address the challenge of increasing aviation emissions effectively if we are to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. I therefore support the fact that we in the European Union are discussing possible solutions to the challenge posed by the Netherlands and Belgium. For me, it is important that we find solutions that drive the industry in a more green direction and that do not just make it more expensive for citizens to fly. In order to completely remove emissions from aviation, we need to develop and promote more climate-friendly aviation fuels, which is why I think this is a crucial area of action. And the industry is on board. Most recently both SAS and Copenhagen Airports have reported that they will be climate neutral by 2050. In order to push that development, we in the European Union must target our research and development efforts. However, I also welcome the fact that we in the European Union are examining what other options could facilitate the green conversion of air transport. Air transport is currently included in the EU's quota trading system, which puts a price on CO2 emissions. I have been constantly working to ensure that this system is as effective as possible, and I look forward to continuing to discuss with my colleagues in the European Union how we can further strengthen the quota system. Nor am I opposed to the fact that we in the European Union are discussing the possibility of possibly introducing a European fuel tax. In this context, we will have to examine whether a European fuel tax is necessary to promote an effective green conversion, and it must of course also be ensured that it cannot be bypassed by thinking in countries outside the European Union. Finally, I would like to work towards dealing with emissions from aircraft to and from countries outside the European Union. The UN's set of rules is a good start here, but we must also see if it can be further strengthened. The government is therefore concerned to find the solutions that can deal with emissions from air transport, and I look forward to working on it in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313155806	After all, the Minister gave an interview on 7 February to a dedicated school pupil who had written a chronicle in Politiken, in which the Minister was asked to consider whether the government would do anything to introduce charges on air travel. The Minister had a problem with it and said that it could be difficult to achieve it globally, and then the comment was made that it was initially being worked on at European level. Then we have to note that, since the Minister has been in the European Union and has not supported the proposal from Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to work for a European aviation tax, the Minister has, in that interview, lied to the committed school pupil who sat in the minister's own office and who, like those who wanted adults to take more responsibility. In other words, I find it disappointing that the Minister does not keep his word there, when the Minister said to the school pupil in a way that he is working at European level for taxation to be introduced. I understand that there are young people, that there are schoolchildren who think that adults are doing too little, and I understand very well that young people are going on climate strikes here on Friday because they do not see that there is enough action. I understand from the Minister that there are now a number of government parties who think that we are faced with the need for a climate bill. It is a bit strange when we have just had a major debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, where the whole government and the Danish People's Party said in this way that they do not want to introduce a binding climate law in the short term, but are launching some debate in the autumn. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can confirm that the government is working against aviation charges, both at national and EU level, as part of the climate solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160013	First of all, I am doing everything I can for the greatest credibility, to tell the truth: it is very close to my heart, even as a person, that it is so. And, as I also said in my speech, the government is not opposed to a fuel tax at EU level if it can be properly and sensibly arranged, in a way that avoids aircraft thinking in other countries and then bypassing the tax. And if it can be arranged in such a way that it has a real effect, it is actually something that the government is not opposed to discussing. The initiative taken by a number of countries will be looked at and we will immediately also have a positive attitude towards a European fuel tax. It is far better than a national fuel tax, because a national fuel tax is very restrictive and presents some challenges compared to doing so internationally and doing so in the European Union. And then, of course, we are following closely the negotiations that are taking place in the United Nations with regard to the fact that the United Nations is also stepping in and regulating air traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160117	Well, as the Minister says that the government is not opposed to charges on aviation fuel, I have not yet received an answer as to why the government did not support the proposal from Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to work for a European aviation tax, especially when you see that there are other countries, both Sweden and Germany, which have air fares. And if you look north, Norway outside the EU also has taxes. Why was it that the government did not support the proposal under discussion in the European Union on 5 March?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160153	Now it was a proposal which was not for adoption at the relevant Council meeting, but only for discussion under the item 'Avt'. We will take a closer look at the proposal. We are not opposed to introducing a European fuel tax on aircraft if, as I said just now, it can be properly and sensibly arranged, so that it also has a real effect. In contrast to a passenger tax, which alone will lead to passengers paying a higher price, a fuel tax is a much better tool to ensure that there is indeed a reduction in CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160234	Okay, it should be understood that the government so emphasizes that it is only charges on aviation fuel that you want to go for, and that it is not the case that a charge for the individual passenger could also be an instrument, especially given that, for example, there is a tax on air fuel. are taxes in Sweden? If you live in Malmö and just go to Copenhagen and fly from there, you can save 288 DKK if you have to fly very far. Can the Minister not see that we should be doing it on a two-sided basis so that it was both a tax on aviation fuel and a tax on air travel?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160311	It is our assessment that a tax on fuels will be the best solution. The aim is not just to make it more expensive for individual travellers. It is easy to do this by imposing different taxes. It is just to introduce things in a way, so it is the weakest and those with the poorest opportunities to move around who get an extra charge. The goal of this must be to make sure that this is done, and I believe that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen will agree when I know Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Søren Egge Rasmussen's attitudes in the area of energy and climate change to set charges in a way that also leads to a real reduction in climate impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160347	Thank you. We have finished Question 8 and we are going to Question 9, which is also for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and the questioner is also in this case Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160358	Thank you. The question is: will the Minister confirm that the only thing the government intends to do in terms of minimising CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160421	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the question. As I have pointed out before, it is absolutely crucial that we tackle effectively the challenge of increasing aviation emissions if we are to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. For me, it is important that we find solutions that drive the industry in a more green direction and that do not just make it more expensive for citizens to fly. In order to completely eliminate emissions from aviation, we need to develop and promote more climate-friendly aviation fuels. In order to push this development, we in the European Union must target our research and development efforts, but I am also positive that we in the European Union are looking at other options to promote the green conversion of air transport. Air transport is currently included in the EU's quota trading system, which puts a price on CO2 emissions. Nor am I opposed to the fact that we in the European Union are discussing the possibility of possibly introducing a European fuel tax. Finally, we will continue to work towards dealing with emissions from aircraft to and from countries outside the European Union. The UN's set of rules is a good start here, but, as I said, we must also look at whether it can be further strengthened. The government is therefore concerned to find the solutions that can deal with emissions from air transport, and I look forward to working on this in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160545	Thank you. Finally, it is a little gratifying that, on top of what the government has not supported in the European Union, it is now unfolding that the government can see that there could be more opportunities both for raising air fares and for there to be technological developments that could minimise the harmful climate effects of air traffic. We are in a situation where CONCITO has calculated that the Danes each emit 1 tonne of CO2 So it is a very high climate load that is difficult to solve overnight, and where we would very much like to work on some good solutions and work towards the introduction at European level of taxes which can then be earmarked to ensure that, for example, we are able to make sure that we do not lose sight of this. can come faster and cheaper by train around Europe. In other words, it could be very good to finance a European train fund through charges on aviation fuel, so that we have priority for sustainable European traffic. Because it is grotesque to see how cheap flights can be, both in Europe and outside Europe, when you then know how expensive and difficult it can be to find the right train connection around Europe. Can the Minister see any possibilities in that we could earmark some of these revenues from aviation charges so that we arrived at the idea of promoting a different type of public transport, which is much more sustainable, and that it could give a boost to how to ensure greater mobility in Europe? After all, we have seen countries that have introduced high-speed trains running on routes where they actually compete with air traffic. Can the Minister see that some kind of European railway fund could be part of a good European solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160744	There's a lot of options. I am actually pleased to hear Enhedslisten speak so committed about European cooperation and EU cooperation as a tool in reducing emissions from air traffic. I also see some opportunities for us to strengthen research in order to find new solutions. That is why the government is also prepared to earmark some more of the money we spend on research in the European Union for finding solutions to air transport. And how to make use of any revenue that comes from a fuel tax that we do not yet know and that we do not know the amount of it is perhaps just as early to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160824	Well, Enhedslisten is happy to work together on actions in the European Union, and we can also see that in some cases it is with the government policy we have, among other things. in the field of nature and agriculture, an advantage is that in the EU there is a water framework directive, a nitrates directive, a habitats directive which can help to secure natural values that are difficult under the current government. So I do not think the Minister should be so surprised that we have a positive approach to European cooperation on some points. I would like to know whether the Minister can see that getting some action on minimising the climate load from air transport into a climate law can be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160907	In fact, I would be willing to discuss this, including what opportunities could be national, not with new taxes, but with regard to promoting, for example, the environment. biofuels and also to promote that we may be able to use electricity in air traffic. It would be right and proper if we were to get there, but that requires research and development, and whether there are any measures we can do in this context, even at a more national level, which only includes Denmark, but otherwise we are of the opinion that this should preferably be resolved under the auspices of the United Nations. It's probably a long and sluggish round. After all, there is work here, and there is also an agreement, from 2021, but otherwise at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313160948	Now the first question was in the sense of research and development. And I would really like to hear whether the Minister can see that it would be sensible to get up to the level of research and development that existed in Denmark before the Left Government came here in 2015 so that there would be some more free means for us to find sustainable solutions for our transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161017	Before the questioner becomes too polemical, I would like to say that it was the SR government that the Enhedslisten supported around, which started by taking off and making a proper cut in the money spent on research, and it seems that it supported the Enhedslisten, at least they supported the parliamentary basis of that government. And then it is gratifying that, in cooperation and with the Energy Agreement, which is also part of the Enhedslisten, we are increasing the research money, so that by 2024 at the latest we will reach 1 billion. kr. for energy research.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161044	Thank you to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and thank you to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen for today's efforts. We can then move on to Question 10, and that is to the Minister for Health, and the questioner is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161101	Please read the question when the technique is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161105	Thank you for that President-in-Office. I'm not that tall, so I'm gonna have to adjust a little bit at the microphone level with the technology. The question is this: how does the Minister explain that the government's health reform does not exactly become postcode bingo when it is free for each municipality whether it will be part of the common solutions in health communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161123	Thank you for the question. It is, of course, a question that we also discussed in consultation a few weeks ago, but I would like to repeat my answer. Today there is too much variation in the municipal health services, and this means that depending on where you live in the country there are very, very large differences. And that is not fair to Danish patients because it leads to a postcode bingo or geographical inequality. As a society, we cannot be aware of this, and that is precisely one of the reasons why we have launched a health reform. Therefore, the government wants to establish 21 health communities to ensure coherence between the municipality, hospital, psychiatry, general practice and thus ensure better coordination and coherence in patients' progress. More tasks must also be carried out in the nearest health care system, and the money must, of course, keep up with the tasks. It must ensure the greatest possible coherence and proximity for the individual citizen; in short, the patient must be put first. At the same time, with the reform of health, the government will introduce a national quality plan to improve quality and professionalism in all.This means quality standards, which all municipalities must As part of the work on the quality plan, the government will support that the staff in the municipalities have the right skills to meet the quality plan's requirements for task solving and quality standards, and therefore the government also allocates extraordinary 6 billion. kr. in the proximity fund, which will contribute to the competence promise as well as the capacity promise in the near health care sector. At the same time, we will allow the health communities to test new things because it creates a sparkly innovative healthcare system that can also help to support new solutions, more proximity, more coherence for the individual patient. There we believe that health communities will find solutions that make sense locally, but we have also adjusted so that there will be more economy out there. One of the things we have also adjusted is that the individual municipality cannot block common solutions. And this isn't about the fact that the individual municipality can then be left out in relation to the things that are about the tasks to be performed, or that you can choose to be outside a health community at all. But that means that, for example, if there is one. is three out of four municipalities wishing to solve a task jointly from their cashiers, but that the fourth municipality does not want it, then in the fourth municipality you have to face up to your citizens in relation to why you choose to stand outside. Of course, you cannot be outside a health community or outside the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161359	There is a lot of talk about geographical inequality, at least on the part of the government. And you will also meet all the support that needs to be given by the Socialist side to reducing inequality in Denmark. Many times the conditions are just different. If you now look at the very change that the government has made to its first draft health reform, and what the Minister says in his reply here, namely that there is in fact an opportunity for some municipalities to opt out of certain elements that a health community may decide, then it is just that I am thinking: what can be the reason for being left out? The Minister is actually giving a very clear answer here, namely that it may be the money box that means that you have to be out of something that the health community otherwise seems to be very good, but as individual municipalities may not be able to do with the background of a poor economy. So my question to the Minister today is this: do you not get exactly to make postal code bingo, that is, that some municipalities do not have the same thing as others? It may well be that the Minister says that they have to meet the same quality plan requirements that are being imposed across the country, but if they do not have the economy to follow what the health community is proposing, will this not be a question here of geographical inequality being exactly manifested and marked within a health community of several municipalities? After all, there are health communities which consist of only two municipalities. If you really find out that it would be right to go one way, then you will not get a momentum in relation to things. And the example given by the Minister, namely a health community with four municipalities, where a municipality chooses to stand outside, leaves the citizen to what becomes diversity, and that is what the government has often called postcode bingo.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161603	No, I do not recognize what the Socialist rapporteur is trying to say. Today there are 98 municipalities which organise things differently. We have no quality standards today for the close health services there is such freedom. Local self-government allows you to organize as you like. That is exactly what we are doing up to by drawing up a quality plan for the near and saying that there are offers in the near health care system. There is no point in having such a variety or failing to meet professional standards. That is why there will be a need to meet what needs to be met, and all municipalities will have to live up to that. But there may also be examples of example. in a health community like that on Funen with nine municipalities already have some solutions in Odense, and then they say that you want to move on with some of your solutions. Then we should not block the fact that the other eight municipalities in Funen can jointly take initiatives for the citizens of these municipalities. This is the flexibility that we propose not just to lower the level or not to cooperate in the community, nor to meet the requirements of the quality plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161710	I think that the Minister is speaking with two tongues here, because the Minister says that it may be the money box that is the reason why we do not agree with the initiatives that the health community is proposing. Those initiatives may have exactly been taken to meet quality requirements and to improve patient safety and professionalism. So here is the question of some being separated; some are an A-team and some are a B-team, and it can even stay within the health community's own framework. How are the citizens of such a municipality with a poor economy, with a slumped cash fund compared to the citizens of the other municipalities in relation to having to meet the health community's needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161759	Yes, that is exactly where the government's policy differs from that of the Social Democrats. Because as the status quo is today, which I understand the Socialists really want to maintain, because they do not support the reform of health, then the individual municipalities that have a weak economy can simply sail their own lake. That is, of course, what we are changing by saying that there are both some municipalities that are too small to be able to carry out all the tasks themselves, and there are also some municipalities that are deeply dependent on the fact that in the occupied area, which is situated in relation to the emergency hospitals, some tasks are carried out jointly, otherwise you will not reach a population size that will allow you to make good solutions. That is why we are creating health communities; so that we have more coherence in treatment, more closeness, more coordination across municipalities, hospitals, psychiatry, our own doctor, and so that we do not lose patients and citizens between the chairs, as we unfortunately do today. But there is a difference between what has been organized today. Take e.g. Funen. Because it's also about what you've used your economy for. It's not a question of you getting a worse offer. But Odense Municipality has some offers today, which the other Funen municipalities do not have. Should we then just say that the other municipalities of Funen cannot do it because Odense has sort of done it on its own? Or should we allow health communities to go further in planning? Of course we must be able to do the last thing, and that is what we are discussing today. I understand that the Social Democrats' rapporteur considers this to be problematic. I really think that it is both listening to the wishes that have been expressed about creating further flexibility and innovation, but at the same time it is also clear and clear to say that, of course, there is no escape from the requirements and, of course, we cannot accept that there are municipalities that do not carry out the task in the near health care that they should. That is why we are also giving the proximity fund an extraordinary amount of 6 billion. kr. to provide a better economy in the municipalities as part of the health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313161953	The Government and the Minister know everything we have proposed from the Socialist side. The Minister also knows that we are incredibly agreed that we must have a more close and more coherent healthcare system. But what is being proposed here is that those who are perhaps weakest today on the health side may also be weaker in the future, and that is now being given an opportunity to do so. After all, we want to link things closer together. We want to set up near hospitals where things and functions can be assembled. We set 800 million. kr. of the time to health houses on which the government is building now. But the government also writes that health communities must ensure coherence between hospital, general practice and municipal health services, and here the government then accepts that municipal health services will thus be able to vary very much in the future. That's what we're saying may result in a zip code bingo that the government says it doesn't want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162050	I know that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has no question of having 21 health communities that ensure the coherence of patients, or a quality plan for the close, ensuring professionally binding standards for the health services that citizens meet in the municipalities. That's what the government is doing with the health reform. And there is a need to raise the quality of the health services that you get when you experience rehabilitation, rehabilitation courses. They may be people with mental disorders in our social psychiatric settlements, and they are entitled to make some professional demands on the level and quality they are experiencing today. And that is what we do with the health reform. We are also putting money into it with the extraordinary 6 billion of the proximity fund. kr. to invest in the near health care system. And then I have to say: 10-12 proximity hospitals, which the Socialists have played out with, are not closeness. We have 98 municipalities. And we need to invest massively in the near health care system across Denmark. That is also why we set aside 6 billion. kr. to the proximity fund for, inter alia: modern health houses all over the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162152	Thank you to the Minister for Health, and thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. We move on to Question 11, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health, and the questioner is Mrs Julie Skovsby from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162204	Thank you. Can the Minister guarantee that the Assens, Glamsberg, Salling and Rings ambulances and the paramedic car in Aarup, which the citizens of the local area find very secure, will not be closed down, as has the Minister protected the special emergency preparedness in the minister's own circle at Nordals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162230	After all, we have gradually taken that car by car in here, and it may be that the Socialist questioner has not followed it there. But let me repeat some of what I have said in previous answers, which have dealt with similar questions, also in the written answers I have given, where the guarantee we have given for one car applies to all cars in Denmark, but it is good to be able to say again and again that, with the health reform, the government is putting in place a freeze on our existing emergency response. But not only do we add 10 to 15 additional emergency response units, and we do so because, unfortunately, there are black holes in the coverage today, places where ambulances do not arrive as quickly as they do elsewhere, places where we can see that response times are worse than they are in other parts of the country, and this helps to create geographical inequalities in health, an inequality in health that the government will not accept. Therefore, it is not just a question of ensuring that the health reform freezes the existing tools, so that the equipment placed in place is not moved in the coming years, so that there is no deterioration in coverage, but also of ensuring an even better emergency response in Denmark and ensuring that where some of the areas today experience that this task has not been done well enough, it is lifted better in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162353	Thank you for the Minister's reply. Yes, I have followed the debate, and I also hear that freezing is a new word in this context. After all, the debate comes from the article entitled "Ellen Trane Nørby is peacemaker car in new health reform."It is an article from 19 February, which can be read at jv.dk under Sønderborg, and in this the minister says that the emergency car at Nordals creates security in an area that many would otherwise call an outermost area, and the preparedness we know today will also continue after the health reform; this applies to the emergency car as well as emergency preparedness in the rest of Denmark. But I can understand the fact that there is a freeze. So why is that not what has been written in its reform? Why do we not write: we guarantee that the tools available today will also continue to be there afterwards? I would like an answer to that question. Then I would also like an answer to another question: one on the health care of the future. As a Social Democrat, I do not want us to dedemocracy our health decisions about what the emergency response of the future should look like. Nor do I want to see the more administrative links that the government is setting up. So when the decisions of the future are to be taken in this area, I would like to ask: how will the citizens get into dialogue with the officials who are going to sit and make decisions? When there is insecurity about what it should look like, how do you ensure that there is a democratic dialogue beforehand?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162557	All due respect to the questioner and her fellow party members, and we are also where we will be in the parliamentary election campaign at the latest in a few months' time, which is why it may be appropriate to just stop listening to the answers that are being given. Let me repeat it again, because it is such a part of the issue that the rapporteur is following up. The health reform will only come into force in 2021, and that is why we have said from the government that, in this way, we assume that there will be no deterioration, that is, a freeze or a standstill period. We have used a few different words, and I have repeated them both around Hjørring and around Skærbæk and the President is laughing a little, because I think the President has been sitting in the chair while we have been Denmark around on emergency services and the same guarantee applies to all emergency services in Denmark. However, we cannot guarantee that the regional councils will not weaken it until the reform of health comes into force. Unfortunately, we have seen the regional councils do this in the past, that is to say the emergency response in Denmark, and that is why the wordings are as they are in the health reform. But the government doesn't just freeze. We also put on top of this: 10 to 15 additional emergency response units, so that we strengthen emergency response in Denmark, and citizens are entitled to do so in order to have better security throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162717	Now the President is neutral. He's smiling at his colleagues at the most. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162724	I can confirm that the President also smiled when I asked the question so that both sides would be smiled. That is perhaps what the article expresses when there is also such a fine picture of the minister, where it says that it is therefore promised that it will not affect the emergency car at Nordals. But should future decisions really be made by officials rather than by politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162810	No, they should not, and perhaps that is also where Mrs Julie Skovsby has forgotten to read the paper and just repeats the same thing that the Socialists have now asked about down here several times, car by car, Denmark around, and therefore I would like to repeat some of what I have said before. Firstly, we are freezing the existing tools in order to ensure that there is no deterioration. We also put on top: 10 to 15 additional emergency services, be it ambulances and medical cars, which can help to make sure that we get rid of the black holes that are in the coverage in Denmark today. Then we say that politicians are national. Mrs. Julie Skovsby and the colleagues in this room must be on the front line to ensure that there are the same levels of service in emergency preparedness in Denmark, because we do not think it is reasonable to do so, for example in Denmark. Region Nordjylland is only 91 per cent. of the ambulances arriving within 15 minutes, while in the Central Jutland Region it is 96 per cent, i.e. geographical differences, which we believe national politicians must be on target to overcome. So no, it's not civil servants. These are political decisions. They should just not be regionally based, but they should be based on the fact that the whole of Denmark and its citizens must experience the same security when it comes to emergency preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162924	The decisions today have been taken by people with local knowledge and, above all, in local dialogue with the people it concerns. If we have the decisions we have in the region of Southern Denmark, then it is because there is a democratic dialogue ahead of us. That's what you want to shut down. Does the Minister really believe that political decisions can be made in spreadsheets?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313162951	We are not going to destroy democracy. We will thus strengthen the close health democracy in the 21 health communities where all municipalities, via the mayor, the health committee chairman, will be directly represented. Also in relation to the dialogue, there will be citizens' panels that will be patient involvement committees. Patients will even get a representative right into the board, i.e. in the heart chamber of health management, so we put patients first. So no, we're not going to dedemocracy our health care. But there are some decisions where we think there are too many geographical differences today, for example. in the emergency response, where we believe that national politicians should be on target to ensure that service levels are the same across the country, so that there are not as black holes as there are in the coverage in several places in the country today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163037	Thank you to the Minister for Health and thank you to Mrs Skovsby. There are no more options in question 11. So we move on to question 12, which is also to the Minister for Health, and in this case the questioner is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163055	Thank you for that, President. The question is this: does the Minister agree with the then political rapporteur of the Left, Ellen Trane Nørby, who in 2011 warned the then Prime Minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, against abolishing the regions on the grounds that if you look at Norway, which in the year 2000 laid down what corresponds to the Danish regions, then the administration has become more expensive, and this has not demonstrably created a better health service?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163123	Thank you for the question. After having been around Denmark car for car and hospital for hospital with the Social Democrats in the last few weeks, we have now reached the point where the Social Democrats have gone into the archives. It's nice, too, and then we can sort of talk from it. If you now take the statements I made back in 2011, it might be that you should take the context with which they were taken, compared to what I said back in 2011. For there I also said in the same article and also in other articles that, from the point of view of the Left, we were open to looking at a new structure if it was for the benefit of patients. Then it can be said that if the Socialists had brought that part, then of course it was not that interesting to look at. In addition, if we are to speak in substance, we must say that at that time we were not at the time, nor are we now on such a maintenance or lay-down car, as the Socialists are. They were also opposed to the abandonment of the counties and to the creation of the regions. Our focus has all the way through been the patients, slightly opposed to the Social Democrats, who seem to be more quick to look at the structure than at how we develop and strengthen the Danish healthcare system. If we now stick to the content and substance, the government does not, of course, with the reform of health, set up major structural upheavals such as those made in Norway at the beginning of the 00s. We maintain the same geography with five health administrations, and if you look at our proposals for a health reform, you will also read that this directly affects only 500-800 employees in non-health-related areas. So this is not a huge change like the one we saw in Norway at the time. What we, on the other hand, want mostly to overcome are the major regional differences. It is the fact that patients experience far too great a difference between the offers they receive from region to region, that they experience too little proximity and too little coherence, and also that, in this way, there is a need to move money from administration to health. That is what we are proposing with the reform of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163338	Thank you for that answer. I would say to the Minister that wise people must always be listened to, and the then rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, was unlikely to be forward-looking and wise when she spoke to Ritzau back in August 2011, when she said that if you look at Norway, which in the year 2000 laid down what corresponds to the Danish regions, then the administration has become more expensive, and that has not been shown to create a better health service. • What the political rapporteur on the Left referred to was the experience that the number of staff in the administration of health care almost doubled when this reform was carried out in Norway. We have, of course, now, at the latest yesterday in consultation, but as in other times since the reform was put forward, both by the Social Democrats, but also by health economists and by journalists, tried to get the government to put forward the calculation which would make it possible to release as much money from administration as the government is proposing. In other words, we have comparable experiences from Norway, where the administration ended up being twice as expensive, and then we have a government that says that it can make improvements to the health services for billions that are released from administration. One is something that has happened in the real world. The second is something that has happened on paper and on the drawing board in the form of the government's proposal, and which I suppose there is not a single outside the government's own ranks. I also asked the Minister yesterday that has been able to nod to as something that was realistic and realistic. On the contrary, health economists have called it magic wand economy and said that it resembles a number. The government will not present the calculations behind which make it possible to free this incredibly large amount of money from administration. So what we have to deal with is some experience from Norway that does not show that a lot of funds could be released. On the contrary, administrative expenditure doubled. And then we have a government that says it won't happen at all. There I might think that the Minister for Health should listen to himself back in August 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163545	Let us deal with the substance, but unfortunately I do not think the Socialists are interested in it; that has not been the case so far. What I referred to back in August 2011 was that if you looked at Norway, which in the year 2000 laid down what corresponds to a regional structure, then there was an increase in administration towards 2007. In Norway, some of the changes have been made subsequently, but this is not the same thing we are proposing with the health reform in Denmark. That is why the comparison made by Mrs Astrid Krag has been taken completely out of context. It is a bit like saying: the moon is made of green cheese, and so is the government's health reform. I think we should raise the level of debate a little and then deal with what the government is proposing. We are proposing a health reform in which we maintain a regional anchoring of our health services, a health reform that directly affects between 500 and 800 employees, not a major change such as that made in Norway, which I criticised in 2011 and which, as such, can also be criticised today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163651	After all, we are back in the discussion that we have had on several occasions: that of maintaining the administrative structure. We maintain five regional links; we just take out the elected representatives, because we would rather have those who cannot be democratically accountable, who do not have a hinterland; we would rather have some professionals in there and sit down. However, the structure is maintained and further administrative links are built up both further into the system and centrally. Well, you get five terms instead of the three we have today. How can it debureaucratize? How can it free up the administrative resources as the government wants? We still have no answer to that, but it could be that it came here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163728	Yes, both the Minister for Finance and myself have answered that several times, and I would also like to reply to it again. With the reform of health, the government is proposing to simplify our health services and the structure we know today. We do this by moving from three elected levels to two elected levels and by creating more proximity in our health care, so that more treatments come closer, because there are too many patients today who drive unnecessarily far and have to go to a hospital to get a relatively simple treatment or consultation or sampling. We change that and that exercise frees up 1.5 billion. kr. Towards 2025, which we put into the proximity fund. It is therefore money that goes from administration that we spend on health; to building new health houses; to deploy extra emergency medical cars and ambulances across the country to basically strengthen our health care. Because we want to move money from bureaucracy to treatments. And that is what health reform is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163819	Thank you. Now we have this special situation where we have two questioners who help each other, and the questioner is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy. So he's taking over the next two questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163829	Thank you for your welcome, President. The Minister's answer was entirely expected. I have sat in my office and prepared myself for the Minister to say that this is torn out of context, it is torn out of context, and there is no substance. I had prepared that the Minister would not go to confession, although the statement was very, very clear and unambiguous also in the telegram that Ritzau wrote in August 2011. Therefore, I will try again to get the Minister to answer whether the Minister still thinks, as the Minister said, in the light of what was the current situation in Norway, in August 2011. If the Minister still has that position, why is the Minister, as Minister for Health, standing in a completely different place today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313163927	In 2011, I referred to the situation they had in Norway from 2000 to 2007, where they built up a larger structure and got more administration. That is, I suppose, the reason why Norway has also changed its structure. It has not changed from what I said in 2011 to what I am saying today. But that is not what the government is proposing in the health reform either. That is why I am saying that this link is completely distorted by the Socialists. I am happy to relate to what the government is proposing with the health reform. We are proposing a more close health service, a more coherent health service and a health service which is still based on five geographical units as we know them in Denmark today. But it is also a health service in which we create 21 health communities as a binding framework for the cooperation that needs to be improved, between what is happening in hospitals, in psychiatry, with our own doctor and in the municipality, because we are today losing patients. Patients and especially the weakest of them are simply lost. That is why we need to have more coherence, and that is what we are investing in with the proximity fund and the 6 billion. kr., so that we strengthen health care in Denmark. This is something other than the discussion about Norway from 2000 to 2007.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164043	There is, and I must say this to those who have had to see Question Time in this Chamber, no political disagreement whatsoever about the need to have a more coherent and close health care system. We've been working on that for a very, very long time, and the government has been an extremely bad captain on the bridge to get us turned towards it. A lot of economic agreements and financial laws have been wasted on this because you've been a really bad captain on the bridge. I would just like to say that Professor Jørgen Grønnegård and Professor Peter Bjerre Mortensen in an article in Politiken on 31 January have completely turned their attention to what happened in Norway and what the government here in Denmark is now proposing, and they have highlighted exactly the same parallelism that we have asked the Minister about here today. That is what the Minister spoke so clearly about in August 2011. And there are many other Left politicians who speak a very clear language, just as the Health Minister did in 2011. That is, for example, the case. Britta Schall Holberg. Today we can only say that a whole series of leading Leftmen stand on the same view as the Health Minister stood on in 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164158	It is very funny that the Socialist questioner can say that it is fighting the Socialists for while the Social Democrats left the negotiations almost before they started and announced that they are opposed to most of the health reform. I think that is a pity, because I think that, if we are to strengthen the Danish health service, it includes a seriousness, including a seriousness, even if the elections are approaching within the next few months and must be held by 17 June at the latest. Therefore, I just have to say to those who claim that there should have been no development in the near health care sector, that Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen is wrong. But there is a need to strengthen coherence further, and that is what we are doing with the health reform, with the proximity fund of the 6 billion. kr., with the 21 health communities and with the massive build-up in the near health care system as the health reform is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164243	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Then the main questioner gets the opportunity for one last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164249	I am surprised that the Minister says that it is the Socialists who have left the health negotiations. If that's the case, I think an invitation can be withdrawn again, and then we can take that thread up. The Minister says that we go from three to two elected levels, but the reality is that we go from three to five levels in total, but you just threw the elected representatives out of one of them. The truth is that this is a big experiment that will centralize a lot of things in our health care and where there is no money needed. That is what is so worrying here, and that is what the political rapporteur from the Left pointed out at the time, namely that we cannot be sure of releasing these administrative resources, because in Norway the number of staff in the administration of health care was doubled. I guess it's over 2 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Minister for his excellent report. So where a reform of this kind has been attempted, the opposite happened, and the government has still not wanted to put forward the figures that would make it possible for this to happen and, unfortunately, they cannot do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164356	We are going to create more proximity to the reform of health, and that is what is needed, because too many patients today drive unnecessarily far, because there has been too much centralisation of our health services under the direction of the regions, but that will change with the reform of health and the construction of the 21 health communities. It is about the proximity fund with the 6 billion. kr., where we can exceptionally invest in modern health houses and medical houses all over the country, so that we can move more treatments away from the hospitals and into the near health care, closer to where the patients live, because they need that. In the health reform that the government is putting forward, we will also be saving on the administration. Every year, the regions spend 2.5 billion. kr. In other words, we are not talking about health administration here at all, but we are talking about 2.5 billion. kr. in administration in non-health-related areas. That is where we will move 1.5 billion towards 2025. kr. and use them on health instead, because the government is aiming for less administration and more treatments and stronger health in our healthcare system, and that is what health reform is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164504	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag, and thank you to the Minister for Health. Flemming Møller Mortensen for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 13 on the agenda, and then we get a new minister on the line, namely the tax minister. The questioner in this case is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164522	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that the Municipality of Assen should be obliged to repay 50 million? kr. in a case which dates back to 2001 and therefore does not comply with the general limitation periods, while the municipality is already not or has been a party to the proceedings itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164541	No, I don't think that's fair. But it is not true that the rules have not been complied with. The rules that affect the Municipality of Assen are the rules that apply and, moreover, have been valid for many years. It is the case that when there is a tax case pending around corporation tax, where the municipality gets a share of the corporation tax, and that case is dragging on, and that makes complicated tax cases across countries... May I ask for some quiet? It's very hard to concentrate. Thank you very much. When a tax case goes beyond a long period of time, in this case 18 years, it hits the municipality, in this case in the form of a post-clearance recovery. Is 18 years reasonable to go back so long? In fact, I do not think it is, and I understand that the Assens Municipality and the Assens Municipal Council are upset about it. That is why I also had a meeting this morning with the mayor and the municipal director and talked about whether we can find a solution to it. We can look at this in the tax administration, but I think that in the specific case of Assen's municipality, it is more over in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior that you have to look at whether you can find a solution. I've given the mayor he's a good Leftman, by the way, an undertaking that I'll talk to my good colleague, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, om. However, to answer the question, I certainly do not think it is right that this post-regulation should affect the municipality of Assen. But the rules are as they are and they are respected in the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164736	Thank you. I do not doubt that the formal rules of this kind have been complied with. But what lies in it is that compared to a small municipality like Assens is 50 million. kr. or even 25, which it is likely to be after an equalisation, a post that is difficult to handle. If you now look at the case itself and the course of action in it, then what now lies is an agreement between the tax authorities and the company for the period 2001-2011. It then gives the said refund of approx. 50 million kr. There is still a run for 2012-2017, where you can say that it can go one way or it can go the other way. Could one imagine that one really started by saying: Well, now let's finish that tax case? It's not even because this is a single tax case that has now been completed. No, it's actually divided into several elements. What if they were to say: well, we wait and take the other half with us? You can say that if you don't do it and stick to the fact that Assen's municipality has to pay this money, and then they get money back in the coming years, then they will be in a very, very difficult situation, which will then be adjusted accordingly. Then you could start by waiting, it might be that the bill got smaller. All other things being equal, I am convinced that we can agree that this is a special matter. I know there's no precedent for this. So, for me, it also requires that we find special solutions for this. But could you imagine that model in the first place?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164859	I understand the frustration in the municipality. When Assens gets hit by this, it's no different from all sorts of other people. But when it hurts the municipality of Assen, it is because you have a poor liquidity and you do not live up to your service framework. On average, the municipalities have small 50 billion. kr. In the municipality we find ourselves in, the money box is bulging. So for the City of Copenhagen that would not be a problem, and that is also the situation for a large number of other municipalities. But it is a problem in Assens, and of course a solution must be found to that. If the tax administration can do this without changing the legislation, we are positive about it. But I think the best solution is over at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs to solve this problem. I would like to discuss this with my good colleague.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313164945	Thank you. When the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is mentioned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that an answer has actually been sent to the Municipality of Assen from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, where it says that it is stated in the Equalisation Act, § 36 paragraph. 1, where a grant or contribution has been notified under this law, the municipal council shall not be entitled to change the grant or contribution if errors can subsequently be identified in the basis of the calculation. What we want to say immediately is that these are some amounts that actually go back to before the municipality's existence. One can say that the first years of this is actually about the old Aarup Municipality • a municipality that doesn't exist anymore. So since it is so old that you cannot go in and look at the compensation that really belongs to this money, should you not sit down to say that we have to find a special solution to make this work properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165037	I understand that point of view very well, but it is not my concern as tax minister. In this tax matter, it is a special problem for the municipality of Assen, and I would like to help because I understand the problems. The question is whether we should change the rules in general, because it is a problem for one municipality. I'm a little more sceptical about that. One might choose to say, as it is in the personal field, that in the field of company law one is re-regulating no more than two years ago, but overall I think the municipalities would actually lose out on it. Because when SKAT makes a post-regulation, it is typical of getting more money in the box, so it will benefit the state and not the municipalities. Having said that, however, I agree that a solution must be found for the municipality of Assen. I'm just not sure I can deliver it as tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165122	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165124	No, and I'm in on that, and I'm prepared for it too. When I asked this question, I asked whether it was one or the other minister who had the resort and was then referred to the tax minister. But what I hear from the Minister for Taxation is also that we will have a dialogue with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and see if it is not possible to find a solution to this, and I will be delighted to hear more about that and wait for further information on what is being found there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165151	As I have said, I have given this undertaking to the mayor when he was at my office this morning, a good and constructive meeting, and of course I would also like to give that undertaking to the questioner, and if it is possible to resolve it here in the tax system without amendment of the law, we would like to look at it. If that is not possible, it is over with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and fortunately I run into him often, and he is a reasonable person. That is why I believe that we can find a sensible solution for the municipality of Assen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165224	Thank you. Then paragraph 13 has been exhausted, and thank you to the Minister for Taxation and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14, which has been withdrawn, so we go to Question 15, which is to the tax minister, and the questioner is Mr. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165246	The question is this: since the Minister has stated that the agreed reductions in taxes and duties in the years up to 2025 are a minimum amount for tax reductions, how much more does the Left feel that taxes should be reduced, should government be reclaimed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165305	I don't know how to answer that question. I am, of course, in favour of what has been quoted and that is quite right. I am the tax minister of a government that has a desire to reduce the structural tax burden. We have done this by lightening the tax for well over 20 billion. kr. in this parliamentary term. Some of it then moves into the next parliamentary term, approx. 9 billion kr. It is a minimum and how much more will depend on who sits in that government, who supports that government, what the government will be. However, I would say that it would be very surprising if, as Minister of Taxation, I did not want to further reduce the structural tax burden. I think that is my task with the basis of government. On the other hand, I can't predict what happens after a parliamentary election. And that's where the wording comes from... a minimum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165400	But this must also be taken as an indication that it is the tax minister's view that during a new term of office the government should recover the government's power will go to further reduce taxes and duties. What is currently in government policy is, after all, a reserve on these approx. 14 billion kr. And then some money is exempt instead of lowering taxes. I assume that these are the ones the tax minister is thinking about when he does such an interview as the one he has given to PolicyWatch and from which the wording that it is a minimum amount comes. So the tax minister might be able to lift the veil more about how many of these billions he really thinks should go to put taxes and taxes further down.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165505	Well, I've explained what's in the concept of a minimum. That's the 9 billion. kr., we have agreed, and this will be done automatically if the Social Democrats do not roll free phones, tax cuts to the ordinary HKs back. We have not received an answer to that. And that's something you might be afraid of. Will there be more? Well, I imagine there might be taxes that need to be reduced. Well, half of a pack of three-colored ice cream are taxes and charges. Perhaps the tax on ice should be relaxed. There's a whole range of things you could do. What it is all depends on what happens after a parliamentary election. So, although the questioner would like an answer, I cannot give it today, but just say that the 9 billion. kr. is a minimum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165548	I can assure the Minister for Taxation that what we have said we stand by, for example. the relief around the free phone, which will primarily go to top tax payers, we will not implement. Apart from that, there are no changes to the personal tax. But this is a question of the policy of the Left and of the attitude of the government. And this 14 billion has been set aside. kr. to reduce taxes and taxes, and we have to understand that instead of spending them on welfare policy, this is where we have to get in and find money to reduce taxes and taxes. And the tax minister confirms that with his answer today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165625	No, you can't put it that way. Once we have lowered the tax, it is to make Denmark richer. It was, moreover, the tax policy pursued by the former Social Democratic Government that was to lower taxes on labour, make Denmark richer and increase labour supply. And when that prosperity is created as a result of among others. tax relief, export abroad, that Denmark is competitive, then there is money for welfare. Therefore, it is not a question of whether tax relief and welfare are affordable. If you think like that, you are old-fashioned, and it is not really very socialist either. And that is not how I think as liberal tax minister. There is both the affordability of lowering taxes and ensuring the future of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165703	We're going to the co-questioner now, and that's Mrs. Lea Wermelin. She has the next two questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165711	It is always interesting to hear a liberal wiser on what good social democratic policy is, but as a Social Democrat I can tell the Minister that we believe that there should be money for welfare first, and that is what is the whole problem of government policy, namely that there is no money for welfare. And I do not meet anyone where I meet voters who say that they want tax relief, on the contrary, they want us to invest in our day care institutions, in our elderly care, in our schools and other things. That is why it is also interesting to hear a little more concrete what the Minister thinks about these tax cuts. Will the Minister work to ensure that the tax is further relieved? Is that what the Minister goes to work for after an election? I think the Danes are entitled to know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165803	In other words, there are plenty of taxes that we have jointly facilitated the Socialists have also voted in favour of. We have the world's highest electricity tax, which is an obstacle to the green transition. We are discussing facilitating the tax on surplus heat at the moment, something that the Socialists also support. Then there is car taxation, where it has to be said that it has been socio-economically sensible to reduce car taxation. That is how there are a lot of areas where it makes sense for our society to turn down the tax burden a little. We're in the top three countries in the world with the highest tax burden. That is why I am just saying that in relation to what the government has got through, that is, the 9 billion. It may well be that in some areas you want to go a little further. If it is in millions or billions, I should not be able to say anything about it, but it would be surprising if I meant something else. I would just like to say that it is true that you meet some voters who would rather have welfare, but our job as politicians is to tell them where the money comes from, and the money does not come from, by hiring more people in the public sector. The money comes by being competitive, by selling goods abroad, by increasing social cake, and that is why we also have to wear that hat once in a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165915	We would really like to discuss how to make Denmark richer, but we would also just like to put our policy forward clearly, and that is that we want to prioritise welfare. We see that public employees are running too fast and that more hands are needed, but no more tax cuts. That is why we are asking the Minister today, and that is a very little concrete answer in reality. Is it millions, is it billions, is it taxes, is it taxes? What does the Minister really think when he says that there is this minimum amount? I mean, what's the minister going to the polls for?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313165944	Well, I'm just describing reality, and so the Socialists are trying to politicize and make me say that the government has some huge tax plan. We don't. I say, and I stand by this, that we have adopted tax cuts for ordinary hardworking Danes for 9 billion. kr., which will not be implemented until the next parliamentary term. Are we going to do more in the area of taxation? Yeah. And I'll also bet you I'll take a bet with the caller that when the bourgeois government regains government power and we do some of those things, the Socialists will also vote in favour, not for everything, but for something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170021	Thank you to Mrs Lea Wermelin. Then we go back to the main questioner who has the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170026	If you have to try very briefly to round it: the Minister of Taxation confirms that you would like to have more reductions in taxes and charges to some extent go beyond what could have been spent on improving different welfare areas. Then I have to say that if you follow the press coverage of yesterday's major interview, it will simply be difficult to find out exactly what the tax minister thinks. There is a big difference between what is being said here and what was said yesterday and I do not understand that modesty. Yesterday, the tax burden had to be reduced to 40%, which was to be eliminated by EUR 80-100 billion. kr. in taxes and taxes, and today it is a little bit like this: perhaps, yes, we will look at it a little bit. What does the government really mean? It is intended to reduce taxes, is that not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170112	Well, we would like to further lower the electricity tax, and I am sure that there are also parties in the government that would like to further reduce car taxation, and there are lots of taxes that socio-economically make good sense to put down, but we need to find some funding for it, and we also need to be able to afford a well-developed welfare society. However, unlike the Social Democrats, who want to pursue a tax policy where Denmark becomes poorer, we may become a little more equal, but we become poorer. The government wants to make the social cake bigger, because then, as Kampmann, old Social Democratic Prime Minister, said, the worker's share will also increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170148	Thank you. That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the There is the main questioner, Mrs Lea Wermelin, and her colleague from the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, is a co-questioner, and the question is to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170209	Does the Minister, as a Leftman, disagree today with his own previous proposal to reduce the top tax in the comprehensive plan of August 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170218	I'm not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170225	That was a good concrete answer, because now we have had the discussion about what kind of taxes the Minister would like to put down, and here we will have a clear answer: if it is up to the tax minister, then the choice is to lower the top tax. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170243	No, because that's not what I was asked. The question was: Does the Minister, as a Leftman, disagree today with his own previous proposal to reduce the top tax in the Health Plan of August 2016? I do not disagree with that, I think it was a good plan, but it has not come to anything, and there is no support for it in the Danish Parliament, and therefore the Left does not go for election to lower the top tax by as much as a bent 25-ear. I might as well say that. There may be other parties in the government that will do that, but that is not the policy of the Left. But, of course, we stand by what we have presented, and we also stand by the fact that it has not happened. I guess my speaking time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170318	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170320	But there is a difference between whether you cannot get anything through because there is no majority for it now or whether you want to get it through. Is this something that the Minister, as a Leftman, is working for, that is, that we should lower the top tax? It is, in fact, a very specific issue, which is based on the overall plan, but which is about whether it is the Minister's view that the top tax should be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170342	Then the minister gets 30 seconds more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170344	After all, the 2016 comprehensive plan, which was the overall plan of the Left Government, has not materialised. There has been a new government, and the overall plan is not government policy. The government has proposed lowering the top tax, but we have not made it through, and I can say here as a Leftman and not as tax minister that the Left does not go to the polls to further lower the top tax. We don't. We are going to the election at the same time as we went to the election at the last time, namely that ordinary hard-working Danes should be allowed to keep just a little more of what they earn and that it should be a little cheaper to be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170424	We have to move on now, and it is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen who is the co-author. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170430	Thank you. It is just to be absolutely sure that we will have an answer that is then clear. The minister thinks it would be a good idea to lower the top tax. In the past, as part of the overall plan, the Minister has given his name to the idea of lowering the top tax. The Minister still believes that the top tax should be reduced, but because there is no prospect of a majority, one does not go to the polls on that is correctly understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170456	This is how the whole length of clogs is correctly understood, that is to say, in the way that we have put forward an overall plan, and it was an overall plan where it was an element. There was no support for the plan. The government I am part of has also tried to lighten top tax in other ways, and there has been no support for that either. The analysis in my party is that there is no prospect of changing the top tax, even if the socio-economic approach would be a good idea. We'll take that down. We believe that we are going to have an election campaign where it is about credibility and the things we promise. At least we in the Left will not help to promise to lighten a top tax when we can see that the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party and a number of other parties will not participate in it. And we can also look into a period in which we do not have as much room for manoeuvre as in the past and where we want there to be money to ensure the future of our welfare society, and I think that is also made clear by my Prime Minister. So the top tax thing is not something on which the Left as a party is going to vote. Then there are other parties in the government and they see tax policy differently, and that is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170601	Okay, so the minister goes in the sign of credibility for election on something other than what the minister really dreams could come true. That's fair enough. But the Minister's other government colleagues actually say that they are going to the polls to continue to enforce this policy. So the other parties in the government say very clearly that they want to lower the top tax. In fact, the Minister personally believes the same thing, and the Left Party in its entirety believes that the top tax should be lowered, but that is not what you are going to vote for. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170636	It must be understood that we are not going to vote on lowering the top tax, among other things. in view of the fact that the party represented by the author has done a great deal in relation to the top tax and has, of course, ensured that 275 000 top tax payers in the coming years will no longer have to pay top tax. In fact, it can be said that the party that has eased the top tax for the last eight years is the author's party, it is the Social Democratic Party. I think we should stand by that and it is a good policy in that it makes good sense in terms of socio-economic terms. But no, the Left does not go to the polls to further lighten the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170714	Then we finish with the main questioner, Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170716	Thank you. Now the Minister said that the last choice was not to lower the top tax and that it was the same one would do about this election. But what happened last time after the election? It was that you wrote into your government base that you wanted to lower the top tax. Can the Minister not confirm that? And is that what we should expect this time? Because then I'd like to take that bet or maybe actually make another with the minister. If the blue bloc regains government power, will the Minister be a minister in a government whose ambition is to lower the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170751	I understand the annoyance of the Social Democrats, because you go outside these walls on Facebook and elsewhere and you want to draw a picture that my party, the Left, is such a party that does not want to secure our welfare society for the future, but spend all the money on tax cuts for the richest. But it's not my party's policy. It hasn't been, and it never will be. And, of course, it is a pity for the Socialists that this scaremongering cannot be carried on, but basically one should only be pleased that this is the way it is. The fact that there are other parties who want and think otherwise and have done so and will be elected on other occasions is very fine. Then the voters will have to take a position when they stand in the ballot boxes and have to tick their ticks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170834	Thank you to Mrs Lea Wermelin and to Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen and to the Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of It's also for the tax minister, and there are also two questioners. The main questioner is Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party, and the co-questioner is Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170848	Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170849	Thank you. The question is: Is it still, as stated in the Health Plan for a stronger Denmark• Government policy to lower the top tax rate if a majority can be reached for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313170904	Well, the government has presented a tax reform or an initiative to ease the tax. It contained it is absolutely right • proposals to ease the top tax. We negotiated this with the Danish People's Party and there was no support for lowering the top tax. Instead, there was support for giving an ordinary hard-working Dane an ordinary LO's or HK's who really deserved to be rewarded for going to work, a tax relief. We have done so together with the Danish People's Party. The questioner's party voted against incomprehensible! So the money that was set aside to lighten the top tax, we've spent on lightening the tax elsewhere, so we can't use it again. You can only spend the money once. What is in this government base, of course, we stand by. But there is no prospect that there is a large amount of money to lighten taxes before there is a parliamentary election. Nor is there any prospect of there being support in the Folketing to spend that sum of money on lightening the top tax. So I find that very difficult to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171006	The Minister for Taxation says that what is in the government base is, of course, one stands by. Is it true that there is also an ambition to lower the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171021	Well, the government has a government basis, and so did the previous government. Something you get through with, something you don't get through with. I am proud of the tax policy that I stand for as Minister for Taxation, and it is a tax policy that makes ordinary hardworking Danes, for example. The HK, who sits in the box in the Fact Arh, the HK may not be in the box, but outside the office has received a tax relief. And it is tax cuts that are being rolled out in the coming years, and the top tax is not relieved with a bent 25-ear. It was, however, in the time of the Socialist-led government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171058	But it's touching that the tax minister is so busy talking about people sitting in the box in Netto. What I am asking is that what is in the government base is that you want to lower the top tax. And then I ask, is that still the intention of the tax minister? And then you can't answer that you've lowered the tax on somebody else. The question is this: do you want to lower the top tax, as stated in the government base that the tax minister says he stands by?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171125	I would like to make the admission to the questioner that I find it very difficult to see for myself that the government should come through with that part of the government base before there is a parliamentary election, all the time that the money that was available to reduce the tax has been decided on something else. So formally, it is still the government's ambition to deliver on the government base, but I do not see either in the Ministry of Finance or in the Prime Minister's Office or in my own ministry that such is the secret negotiation of a large, secret tax reform. So I guess we're not gonna get through that, I'm gonna have to be honest and admit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171155	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171156	Okay, well, then maybe we got a little closer to it now, and that's kind of just what we're quite simply asking. Is it the government's view that the top tax should be lowered? We do not support the government in this and we think it is a really bad idea, but we cannot really get the tax minister to stand by what is in the government base and what is actually what is being worked for in the government. But we would really like a clear and concrete answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171229	After all, we have worked to reduce the top tax; I have done so as the tax minister, and we have had plenty of negotiations on that. The Socialists would not do that, despite the fact that they relaxed the top tax quite dramatically. The biggest top tax relief in recent times is that of the author's party back in 2012. You wouldn't go any further. The Danish People's Party would not be a part of this either. The money the government had set aside for tax reform, among other things. For a lowering of the top tax, we have chosen to spend on providing ordinary hardworking Danes, among others. A cashier, a big tax relief. I stand by that, and everyone in the government is happy that we have come through with it. Are we getting through with the rest of our government base? Do we have money for this before a parliamentary election? No. So formally speaking, what is in the government's constitution is the government's policy. Is it realistic that we can deliver on it and are we working for it? No, 'cause I don't think that's gonna be possible before we make a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171324	It is a little out of hand where you are very concerned about talking about tax cuts other than those that you actually wrote into your government base. And I understand, because it was a really bad case, and there are not very many Danes who agree with the government that top tax relief should be granted. But the overall plan called the government "Holy Plan" for a stronger Denmark. Is it the tax minister's view that Denmark would become stronger if top tax incentives were implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171353	So, socio-economically, it is very, very sensible to change the top tax, because it makes the Danes work more and we get richer. From such a reasonable point of view, it can also be said that the top tax is a tax for people who are very industrious because they are often some who work more, among other things. the many members of Danish Metal who are hit by the top tax because they work for many hours. But that doesn't change the fact that the money the government had set aside for it has been spent on something else... we can't spend it again... and we don't have money. At the moment we are discussing spending money on health and a number of other welfare areas. So that part of the government base I think I have to say that we will probably not get through with that, but I do not think that is a surprise to anyone, either in this Chamber or outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171438	Sir. Jens Joel to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171440	Well, then we can see that the government had set aside some money to lighten the top tax. Fortunately, some other parties were given a different priority on them. Now that money is not there anymore. Can I then just have the tax minister say whether the money that had been put down by the tax minister, as the tax minister calls it, came from the room, and whether it would have been possible to invest them in some of the things we need out there, namely more day care providers, better treatment in hospitals or something? Because it seems as if the tax minister is very busy saying that the government had set aside money for it, and then no one would have paid for it. But would it be possible to regain such room for manoeuvre if we were willing to give it priority and reduce welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171528	Well, you can only spend money once. That is also why the Socialists have launched this whole debate. Because I think it is regrettable in the Social Democratic Party that my party, the Left, has said: we are not going to vote for the top tax. You're sorry, because the scaremonger's gonna crumble. That's what you should be happy about. But you can only spend money once, and the money that was in this parliamentary term has been spent on lowering the tax for ordinary hard-working Danes, and we haven't made it through to lighten the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171557	Thank you to the tax minister. Thank you, sir. Jens Joel, and thank you to Mrs Lea Wermelin. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 18 to the tax The main questioner is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party, and the questioner is Mr. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party. And it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen who's starting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171618	Thank you. Does the Minister disagree with the Conservatives' desire to raise the top tax limit significantly, or does he just think it is difficult to find a majority for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171626	Conservatives have said that they want to do something about the top tax limit. In fact, I also believe that the Conservative Party chairman, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, has said that he is inspired by the tax policy pursued by Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the Social Democratic Prime Minister, and by the tax reform that was made back in 2012, which increased the limit on how many people have to pay top tax. I can say that this is not my party's policy. We're three parties in the government. What is my party's policy, of course, we have explained in the past. My excellent colleague, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, who is the Left's tax rapporteur, has said that the Left is not going to vote to lighten the top tax. I am the tax minister for three parties, and what I stand for is what is in the government base, and that is the tax policy we have pursued. The tax policy we have pursued has not led us to change what is to be paid in top tax or who is to pay top tax. However, we in the government are delighted about this, and I believe that the Conservatives are also pleased that the social democratic government that sat before us has relaxed the top tax limit and has made a plan for phasing it in so that, towards the coming years, far fewer people will have to pay top tax. I think that's good for society. I think the Conservatives are happy about that too. They will then go further than that. It is not the same as the policy of the government, nor is it the policy of the Left. And it's fine that the parties in the government go to elections on something different.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171803-2	It's a nice spaciousness. It just seems that it is the other parties who are allowed to say what they actually mean and that the minister's party is, most of all, laying down where you think you can actually make it a reality. But it must then be a discussion within the government. I did a little bit of a bit about something the Minister said about where the money comes from and what it is that makes the country richer. I cannot help thinking that when the Minister, as the Minister for Taxation, was in charge of tax reform during this parliamentary term, we did not go for the places where the employment or savings potential was greatest. On the other hand, what has financed it, among other things. I think it is a good thing that we should be making savings on education, which is one of the things we must make a living on. So does the Minister actually consider that the Minister's tax policy is to intervene where the money is best spent and gives the best effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171854	You can always discuss where the money comes from and how you have created a room for manoeuvre. But I think it's hard to make those crosses. Polemically, I could also say that the money for the lightening of the electricity tax voted for by the Socialists, or for the relief of the PSO tax, which the Socialists have also voted for, has gone from education money, and why have the Socialists agreed to it? However, I do not really think that this is a fair discussion or comparison. There's been some room for manoeuvre. We have spent a lot of money on welfare, and we have also spent money on lightening taxes not at the top, but for ordinary hardworking Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313171935-2	Now it was just the Minister himself who raised the discussion about where it is that the money works best and where it is that tax relief can make Denmark a richer place, and then I would just arrest it to finance it by taking money from what we have to live on in the future, namely education, and I could also mention our children. As a child rapporteur, I have spent the whole week discussing the fact that our day institutions are at least in bad shape in some places, because everyday life is not connected and because there are not enough evolving moments for our children. And here we are discussing top tax without being able to get a real, honest answer as to whether that is actually what the minister wants to do with this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172012	I thought we were discussing the tax policy of the Conservatives, and I would actually recommend the questioner if you would like to know what the Conservatives think to ask the Conservatives, either some of the Conservative ministers or in general here in the Chamber. I am happy to interpret the tax policy of the Conservatives, I have done so, but I actually think they are doing better on their own. The tax policy that I represent is that of the government, that is what it says in the government base, and that is what we have implemented, and that is not a relief to top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172040	We need the co-questioner, sir. Jesper Petersen, on the podium. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172044	I am glad that the Minister for Taxation says again in the end that the tax policy he stands for is the one that is in the government base. The answer given earlier by the Minister for Finance was also that what is in the government's constitution is still an expression of government policy. And that is, of course, a significant reduction in the top tax. It is said that the top tax should play a significantly smaller role. It could, for example. be doing what the Minister of Justice has proposed, with 200,000 fewer people paying top tax. This reminds me of what the government itself has proposed in the past. So that's what the tax minister actually ends up standing by here. But yet he will not really do so when we ask him if it is actually his own position, so now we put the majority voting aside and everything else and just ask quite frankly: does the Minister of Taxation really agree politically that it would be a good idea if he could get a majority for it and do as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen suggests, or is it simply a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172154	After all, I represent the entire government, and that is why I do not only represent my own position. I understand that the questioner is asking, because I have also been on the opposite side, and that could be very fine, but of course I will have to be loyal to the government of which I am a part, and also to my own party. I can reveal again a huge revelation that there are plenty of things in government policy that I do not entirely agree with. This also applies to my own party's policy, but I am a democrat and I support the decisions taken by the government and I support the decisions taken by my own party in relation to our party democracy. And I go out and defend it and fight for it because it produces far better political results than if you only represent yourself and sit and are non-attached in the rear row. But that also means that you cannot always express what you personally think is not at least not as tax minister. I can say, both as a tax minister and as a person, that I am happy and proud of the tax policy that this government has pursued, which leads to her or the person sitting in the box in Fact being allowed to keep more of her own money, and that he is well off.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172302	There is no link between what the Minister of Taxation has replied now and what he has answered just now in an earlier reply. There the tax minister says that it is good what is in the government base. He also believes, as a Leftman, that what was proposed when it was proposed that the top tax should be significantly reduced was a good idea. The tax minister just said that a few minutes ago. Now the tax minister says that he as a minister must defend government policy, but as a person it is not his position. It simply does not agree with what has happened in the last few minutes, and I do not give one for what the tax minister now claims to be his position. In the run-up to the last election, it was also said that there were no elections to lower the top tax, and that choice was badly over before it was proposed anyway. I don't trust it. Of course it is still the policy of the Left. You've meant it all the time. Now you don't have the guts to say it because there will be elections in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172353	Now we're looking at mr. Jesper Petersen's final statement is the annoyance of the Social Democrats that one cannot wage the scaremongering one has intended. Frankly, I think that the Socialists should spend their time presenting their own policy rather than miscondicting the tax policy of the government or government parties or the Left. Finally, I can say that both I personally am so Left and, as the tax minister, the fiscal policy we have pursued. It is, after all, a tax policy in which we have eased the top tax somewhat less than the previous Socialist Government. But we're happy with the reliefs you got through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172433	Then Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen will have the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172435	Thank you. It is a great quality to be able to be honest in politics. That is why I often admire the tax minister, because I actually think the Minister is often able to do so. I also understand that it can be difficult to wear more hats, both as a minister and as a private Liberal, and as a Leftman, who has actually meant something in a previous government and is now with some others. But I still think that the voters deserve a more honest answer: if you vote for the Minister and on the Left, what is the Left going to work for?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172515	Well, the Left's tax rapporteur has said that the Left is not going to vote to lighten the top tax, so it is the Left's tax policy. I stand here as the tax minister and represent what is in the government base. However, as I said, I would like to reveal that, although the government has tried to lower the top tax, we have not made it through, and I hardly think we will do it before a parliamentary election. On the other hand, we have come through with a large number of other things that I find all parties in the government happy to have reduced the tax on working quite significantly to the delight of ordinary hardworking Danes, many of whom are also social democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172548	Thank you. Then we got through Question No. 18. We shall now move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 19 to the tax minister. The main questioner is Mrs Lea Wermelin from the Social Democratic Party, and the co-questioner is Mr Wermelin. Jens Joel, also from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172603	Thank you. If the Minister, as a Leftman, fails to reduce the top tax in a future parliamentary term, should he still have the power of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172612	Now I'm not prime minister. Of course, you never know what can happen, but I don't think I'll be after a parliamentary election. The Left Prime Minister's candidate is Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and that is why it is also the Prime Minister who wants to create a government base and an election programme and find out who to be in government with, and that is where you want to clarify such a question. So I cannot answer that, at least not truthfully, in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172643	But the Minister can answer on his own behalf. That's what we're trying to get a little smarter on. For the last time, there was no election for top tax relief. Nevertheless, they would be implemented. This time, the minister says they're going to the polls exactly the same as the last time. Will top tax concessions be made after elections next time if government power is given? That is a very fair answer, and that is what I am calling for. After all, it is not because the Minister will have problems with the Liberal Alliance or with the Conservatives, because they have reported clearly and said that they still want top tax relief. That's why it's falling back on the left. If you go back to government and the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives come and say they want top tax relief, would the Left say: no, it is a really bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172732	So, I would say to the questioner that the question was not put to the private person Karsten Lauritzen, but, as it says, to the tax minister, which is why I do not represent myself. Yes, of course I do, but I represent the government. If you ask the government, you get an answer to what is government policy, and it would also be strange if I replied otherwise. Then it could be interpreted as government policy, when it was really my own personal attitude. So if you want to know what I mean personally, you should not ask a question down here during Question Time. I can say that I am at the heart of the fiscal policy we have pursued and which is in the government's constitution, but what happens after election is beyond my control.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172810	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172811	At the same time, however, the Minister of Taxation is trying to stand in this Chamber and say: don't worry out there, we said well enough before the last election that we did not want top tax relief; we introduced it into the government base afterwards, and now we say that we are going to the polls at the same time as last time. And yet you want people to believe that not even this time, you should have government power, you will write it into the government basis. So it's no wonder we ask. That's because the history has shown that you didn't actually do what the tax minister is now saying you're gonna do about this election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172840	Well, it's such a political polemic. I also believe that the voters out there, the citizens, are super tired of it, and I think we should generally behave a little better in the dialogue we have with each other. No one is more guilty of this than others, including my own party. But I could put a counter question and ask: can Mrs Lea Wermelin guarantee that the Socialists will not implement the alternative proposal for a levy on meat and all sorts of other things? Well, no one knows what happens after a parliamentary election. The parties are going to elections on something. The Social Democrats are going to elections on something. The Left is going to elections on something. And there you have to believe that what we are going to vote on is also what we are going to fight for after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172919	Sir. Jens Joel as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172920	Okay, but very briefly, because I kind of agree with the tax minister: the Left does not go to the polls and does not say that you want to lower the top tax, but the tax minister also says that it may well happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313172944	I didn't say anything about that, but I don't know what's gonna happen. I am not the one who has to write the government basis, in any scenario I cannot imagine that after a parliamentary election. Hopefully it will be my President, the Prime Minister, whom I fight for as Prime Minister after a parliamentary election. That is why I could go on to predict what can happen and what cannot happen, but I will be too good for that, because I am not master of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173009	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173010	But that's a real politician's answer. There is no election for top tax concessions, but the tax minister cannot say what will happen after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173026	Well, that's just the objective truth. I don't know what's gonna happen after a parliamentary election. That's the way it is. Do I imagine there will be a major tax reform? I do not do that at first, but it may be that if our room for manoeuvre is suddenly much larger than what you expected, then there is afford for both a lot of welfare and a lot of tax relief. All sorts of things can happen. What I can say is that what the Left is going to vote on is one can count on, and what we went to the polls at the last time we have actually delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173057	Then we'll get back to the main questioner. Mrs. Lea Wermelin, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173058	But that is simply not true. The Minister stands here and gets upset and talks about politicianlingo, and what do I know, yet he says that it cannot be ruled out that the Left will support top tax relief. It's pretty simple. In other words, the Minister now asked what the Social Democrats think about setting a levy on meat. That is not the policy of social democracy. We can say that quite clearly. What is the problem with the tax minister and the policy of the Left is that we cannot get a clear answer as to whether the Left will help rule out the possibility of top tax relief if government is to be regained.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173130	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173131	However, Mrs Lea Wermelin's question illustrates precisely the point, because the tax policy of the Left is quite clear and it is interpreted by the Left's tax rapporteur. The left does not go to the polls to lighten the top tax in any way whatsoever. It is the left election platform in the field of taxation. So does it make it possible for me to issue a guarantee of what happens after a parliamentary election? No, I cannot, just like Mrs Lea Wermelin, rule out the possibility that the meat tax of the alternative will become a reality if Mrs Mette Frederiksen wins a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173206	The question is over. Then we go to question 20 to the tax minister by Mr. Jens Joel, and here's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173213	Jens Joel for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173214	It reads: Will the Minister confirm that he believes that it is a matter of duty for a bourgeois government to lower the tax burden, as stated to PolicyWatch on 6 February 2019, and that such a political duty will also apply, should the Left regain government power?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173231	I can confirm that I stand by what I said to PolicyWatch. It says in the government base that we want to reduce the structural tax burden. We have done so, and that is why we have moved from a first place in the world in terms of taxation to a second place now. Perhaps we are moving down to a third place, helped by the tax cuts which are being phased in towards 2025 and which have been proposed and adopted by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Jens Joel's party, the Social Democratic Party, back in 2012. So I stand by the tax policy we are pursuing, and I also stand by what I have said to PolicyWatch.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173304	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173305	The case has actually been updated by an interview yesterday in which the tax minister has been quoted as wishing the tax burden to fall to 40%. Can't the tax minister just start by confirming that it's in dollars and cents somewhere between 80 and 100 billion? kr., which the tax minister thus wants to drag less into tax revenue?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173329	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173329-2	I think, sir. Jens Joel owes it to me to quote me correctly. I think I said I couldn't imagine a society with a tax burden below 40%. It would be a completely different society. But those statements are ungrateful. In Denmark, tax is paid on transfer income. If we changed that, the government doesn't plan on it, but if we did, we'd go down and get a place that's very close to 40 percent. in tax pressure. So what I am airing in the Stock Exchange is an expression of my ambition, an ambition as a tax minister, to go further in reducing the structural tax burden. But you can do that in many ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173407	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173408	So the tax minister does not recognise that it would mean that there were 80-100 billion. kr. less in tax revenue?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173416	I mean, if you, for example... said that as a transfer income recipient you would not have to pay tax. It's a bit a run-around economy. Then there would be fewer tax revenues, the structural tax burden would be lower. But the people who no longer have to pay taxes will have the same amount of money available. So you can do it in many ways to lower our structural tax burden. It can also be done by taking room for manoeuvre and lowering the tax on it. But that requires a room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173453	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173455	Okay, I don't know if I'm the only one who's confused about the minister who's here today, even when you've read the article in which the minister speaks. Because if it was just a question of a little number forgery and how to settle one thing and the other, why is it a target for the tax minister? It must be because the tax minister says again to the Stock Exchange: I would actually like to work to reduce the tax burden in Denmark. It may be hoped that such ordinary voters do not read with them. But it's gonna cost 80 to 100 billion. kr. And why is it that you don't stand by it? It would then suit the Minister, I think, to be completely honest about it, and if that is what you are working for, then let us just bring it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173540	I am asked by the Stock Exchange whether I want to further reduce the structural tax burden, and I say that as a tax minister I would like to do so. Moreover, in the coming year it will be well helped by the sensible tax policy of the Socialists when the last government was in power. Then I'm asked, what's your dream? What can you imagine? Then I say "And, of course, I stand by that I find it hard to imagine a tax burden under these 40 percent, because it will require a whole different society. Is that the same as my goal? No, it's not. My aim is to further reduce the structural tax burden as we can afford it as a society. We have just spent a lot of money on reducing taxes on working, and we have also spent a lot of money and a lot of room for manoeuvre on lowering the electricity tax, because it is an obstacle to the green transition, supported at least in relation to the last thing about lowering the electricity tax by the Social Democratic Party. There you should go ahead and spend more money on it. Moreover, the electricity tax has a heavy end down, and that would be very sensible. It will also help to reduce the structural tax burden. But that does not, of course, bring it down to 40%, and that is not my aim either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173643	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173644	Then I think that the Minister should make us wiser: what is the goal? Because if the minister stands here and says that he is asked what he dreams of, and then he allows himself to think a little freely and says that he dreams that the tax burden must be down around 40%. kr. And I think there are a lot of Danes sitting there thinking, "Okay, where will that money be found?" Do we need to cut welfare once again with a bourgeois government? The Minister owes it to him to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173714-2	Actually, I don't think I owe it to you to be honest. You can read the Stock Exchange interview and then you will see that this is a rather different interpretation in a context than that presented by Mrs Lea Wermelin here in Parliament. So I actually don't think I owe an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173733	Then it's mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173735	The tax minister doesn't think he owes an answer to what he means. Well, the tax minister says that you can lower the tax burden just by moving the numbers around and making such a little new spending mechanism and something like that, and that it doesn't really matter out there at all. It must be assumed that when the tax minister, as a liberal minister, says that he wants to reduce the tax burden, it is because he wants to have more money in the public purses and fewer in the public purses. Now that the stock exchange writes that it is in the order of 80-100 billion. kr., then, the tax minister owes an answer to whether it is actually true that this is what needs to be taken out of the community's treasury to make the tax minister's vision a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173817	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173817-2	But when I did not want to answer the question, it is because the Socialists do not want a real conversation. The questioner does not want that. The questioner wants me to say something and cut it together in some facebook video that the Socialists can use online to contribute to some scaremongering campaign about my party and about the government, and I just don't want to contribute to that. In fact, I think the author's party should talk about its own policy rather than trying to get things out of the politics of the government and my party. We'll tell you for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173850	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel, but we're also grateful to the tax minister. The question is closed. We move on to a question to the Minister for Education from Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173858	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173901	Thank you. Compare the article "Sparekniv threatens Mothers: Close to giving VUC deathblows from nordjyske.dk on 27 February 2019 does the Minister believe that it is realistic that there will continue to be a VUC department in Nykøbing Mors if the government's re-priority contribution continues?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313173925	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that it is Vuc's local board which, on the basis of a local priority, decides whether local procurement should be terminated or not. Vucs therefore have a great deal of freedom to make economic priorities and adapt to the fact that there are activities that make profits, while other activities generate deficits. The re-prioritisation contribution shall not be carried out by: the definition that local departments must close, but I recognise that it can be a difficult task to achieve efficiency, and I also recognise that it can be relatively harder to maintain locally anchored supply in sparsely populated areas where the search for training is lower. This is true, for example. On Thy-Mor's HF and VUC. Vucs, which cover a large sparsely populated area, are compensated financially by a regional training grant, which is paid in recognition of the relatively more cost-effective maintenance of supply in the outermost regions. Although Thy-Mor's HF and VUC are one of the smallest vuc's in the country, it is one of the most receiving in regional training grants, a total of 2.8 million. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If I are to take the place of the local board when it discusses whether a tender should be maintained, I would venture to claim that the decision is very much about whether there is a sufficient basis for pupils to maintain a local tender. Here we know that we will see changes in the student base for the vuc in the coming years. This is due in particular to the agreement made by a broad majority in the Folketing in the preparatory area, which means that that part of the Vuc's activity from August 2019 will be transferred to the new preparatory initial training. The parties who sat in the negotiating room were fully aware that the establishment of the fugitive would have consequences for the vuc and that this could have particular consequences in the outermost regions where the student base is already low. For the same reason, we set aside a pool of 60 million. kr. to adjustments to prices which, as a result of the Fgu Agreement, would be at risk of being in need and of maintaining supply in rural areas. The circle of agreements has now established the criteria for allocating these funds and the application process has begun. Thus Thy-Mor's HF and VUC will also be able to apply for participation in these funds in order to create a sustainable supply in Nykøbing Mors.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174142	Thank you to the Minister, and then it's sir. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174146	Thank you. I find it difficult to find out whether the Minister thinks it realistic that there will continue to be a vuc department in Nykøbing Mors on the basis of the re-prioritisation contribution. This is not clear from the reply given by the Minister, because it is quite true what the rector at the Vuc centre says that with the re-priority contribution maintained by the government this year, but also in the years to come, it will be very difficult to run a department which may not be the large search for because it is in a sparsely populated part of Denmark that supply must be maintained. That is why it is fitting as a boxing glove for a black eye when the government maintains a re-priority contribution that constantly cuts the possibility of maintaining the supply of Mors. I am very concerned about how it puts the local population in relation to educational provision, in relation to new ways of working and living, moreover, if such an important player as Vuc is no longer in Nykøbing. The Minister is right about everything relating to the fgu and the search. It's handled with that pool, so that's why we're back on the re-priority contribution. And my question is: does the Minister really think it is realistic to maintain this offer for Mors? The principal does not think so if the re-priority contribution continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174333	Thank you. I know that the Social Democrats would like to believe that the re-prioritisation contribution may be the only factor that affects the choice of continuing vuc, especially in the outskirts. Nor am I saying that the re-prioritisation contribution is not part of the overall pool of influences that there is for an educational institution, but it is hardly the factor that has the crucial importance when we have made a fgu agreement with open eyes, also with the social democracy, which has a much greater impact on the vuc's business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174422	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174424	Does the Minister believe that the re-priority contribution makes it easier or harder to maintain a vuc offer in Nykøbing Mors?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174436	I believe that the student base, that is, the presence of local citizens, that there is a student base, is a much greater factor, and I believe that the fgu agreement is a much bigger and more important factor in driving a vuc, even in the outskirts. We were well aware of this when we made the fgu agreement, and everyone knew it was in the room and who made that deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174504	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174506	I simply cannot understand why it is so difficult for the Minister to recognise that the re-priority contribution will, of course, make it more difficult to maintain a vuc offer on Mors. Of course, the re-prioritisation contribution makes it harder for you to cut 2%. Every year. At any rate, I think that if the Minister does not have other solutions for the citizens of Mors, then perhaps she should be able to get there, that she would just acknowledge it today. That is why I am just asking at the end: will the Minister recognise that the re-priority contribution makes it harder to maintain the vuc offer on Mors?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174542	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174543	I recognise that it is a difficult task to be the head of a public organisation, which must be made more efficient and which applies exactly the same to private organisations which must be more efficient. It is always a challenge to be a leader and to be more efficient, but it is also part of the task that will be faced as a leader, both in the private and in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174607	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup and the Minister of Education. Then Question No 22 has been deleted, and so we are going to the last question today, which is to the Minister for Education and Research, and that is what Mrs Mette Reissmann has been asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174621	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174622	Yes, I am just reading out my question: what are the consequences of the government's savings in nursing training for the quality of training?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174635	Thank you for the question. It is an important priority for the government and for me, as Minister for Education and Research, that we have good higher education of high quality. Nurse education is a very important education. Good nurses make up the backbone of our health care system. At the same time, it is an education which requires considerable investment, as is also reflected in the higher education licensing system, where nursing training triggers a tariff per year. student year work of just under DKK 70,000, which is just as much as for example. the master's training or the master's training. Having said that, it is important to point out that it is the educational institutions which are responsible for providing high-quality training within the current financial framework. This is among other things. reflected in the grant system for higher education by the fact that the institutions receive a fixed basic grant which supports their ability to prioritize the means of education to the greatest possible benefit. In the same way, the training institutions are also responsible for implementing the re-prioritised contribution they have been subject to since 2016. The re-prioritisation contribution encourages training institutions to fulfil their tasks more effectively and at the same time has freed up funds, inter alia: to strengthen Danish police and cancer treatment in our hospitals. The re-priority contribution shall cover each educational institution as a whole. The importance of the re-priority contribution for nursing training therefore depends on the specific priorities of the individual training institution. Having said that, it is clear that the financial framework plays a role in higher education, including for nursing education. And I recognise that it is a challenge for the institutions to adapt costs to the financial framework while maintaining a high quality of education and training. It is my impression that the educational institutions have taken responsibility for themselves and are working constructively to streamline their tasks, so that in future there will also be skilled nurses for the Danish health service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174825	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313174826	Thank you. After all, the Minister is aware of the content of the answer to the question that I was sent through the committee, in other words, about the annual costs of our nursing courses, calculated in kroner and pennies per year. number of students per year; years. Here you can read that in the years 2018-2021 there is a decrease of more than 10%. in grants per year; students. This is equivalent to "to be concrete" that there are DKK 7.576. Frequently less per year students per year; Years to do good with. The grant is a correct increase, but so is the number of students, and if it is the case that it is presented, then it is clearly going in the wrong direction as far as the money is concerned. It is good that we have several students who want to study for a nurse. It's necessary. I also recognise and agree with the Minister that reading to nurse and being a nurse is the backbone of our health care. It is important that our core welfare programmes are also supported financially, so that Danish young people actually continue to want to move into the studies. Some in the government have an ambition to train 2,000 more The thing is that money doesn't come with it. The fat is long gone from the body of the institutions that train our future nurses. The future nursing students will only get less money to get training for, and without the necessary amount of education and good learning, it will therefore be difficult for them to carry out the many complex tasks that await in the health care sector of the future. So that's why, sir. Minister: When saving more than 10%. per students from 2018-2021 and at the same time wishing to increase admission, does the Minister really believe that it will not be felt in the quality of our nursing education?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175015	Then we move on to the answer, which must last 30 seconds, 1⁄2 minutes. It's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175020	Well, as I say, I acknowledge that it naturally creates more challenges, that there is less money to do it for, but I just experience out there when I talk to the managers of nursing education, and when I keep up with how they work out there, that despite the fact that there is a little less money to train nurses for, they are also working very constructively to make a better education. They do this by using digital learning means; they do so by asking for more, what to say, proximity to practice in the training; they do so by asking for, for example, access to the Health Platform so that they can train future nurses even better. So I actually experience that they are well running. So I have no basis to say that it equals a lower quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175057	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175058	It is then with your arm wrung on your back, I can almost understand that they are going to answer the Minister as they do. The students themselves say that they are not properly dressed in the programme to meet reality. They do not have enough lessons, they do not have enough practical instruction, there is too low study intensity, there is too little guidance, and young nurse students get practical shock when they come out and meet reality. It is important that professional staff are trained with a sense of health care, so that we get the right people in the right places. Does the Minister agree that, while the number of students has to be increased, savings are being made on nursing training, there is in fact a great risk that quality will fall while the drop-out is increasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175137	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175138	We have actually succeeded in recording 1,300 more nurses under this government than under the previous government, and we have a plan to increase the number further by 2,000. So this is a matter of priority. So we get to spend even more money in crowns and ears training nurses. At the same time, however, we also say that, for every nurse we train, we can make it a slightly lower rate than in the past. What I see out there is just that they work constructively with it. They will then continue to work with study intensity and digital learning means, regardless of what the starting point was.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175217	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175218	At the same time, we can only see that the dropout is increasing. Although the Minister points out that the success of the students will also have to be increased, health professionals are disillusioned during their studies because of the savings that exist. However, I am pleased that the Minister thinks that we should strengthen the backbone of health care. And now that we agree on the need to focus on quality, we cannot also agree that we should have a better education system, so that savings of 2% are made. are dumped in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175245	I'm one hundred percent in agreement. That's what we've been saying. We have said that by the end of 2021 we will stop taking money out of education as a whole. So we are in complete agreement on that. It has to stop. This can't go on. So for once, we're one hundred percent in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175303	For example, I would like to thank Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Minister for Education and Research. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190313175312	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 14 March 2019 at 10:00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
