ParlaMint-DK_20190326130043	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326130047	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326130053	Thank you, Madam President. Today, the government and the Danish People's Party have concluded an agreement on the future of health care. It is an agreement that will address the challenges that are already pressing and will increasingly put pressure on our health services and our skilled staff in the coming years, if we just stand by. Too few warm hands, too many patients falling down between two chairs, too much pressured hospitals, too long response times, too few ambulances is what is real and we have to deal with it, and it is a reality that is getting worse if we do not do something, and you can do that in two ways. You can try to find the popular position, express it in a couple of sentences, laws 1,000 nurses, even though in the second half of 2018 there were 960 unsuccessful recruitments • or new near hospitals, ten of the kind, where knee surgery and other good things need to be done, which we have gathered with benefit, without explaining what to do, or you can choose to go seriously, take time to make a thoroughly worked plan, which has several layers, because reality has several layers and reality is sent in colors and not in black and white. So that is what the government has done, and I welcome and thank you for the fact that the Danish People's Party has today helped take responsibility with a health agreement that brings health care closer to citizens • security very close to • so that more patients can be treated closer to their own home in a secure environment by competent staff. This applies, among other things, to: the number of people suffering from chronic diseases for diabetes will almost double over the next 10 years, because the number will increase by 30-40 per cent. over the next 10 years. That is why this agreement. Several general practitioners, including: by increasing the dimensioning of the main training courses, more nurses by providing the opportunity to absorb 2,000 more this year and the next 3 years in order to hire them all, if they like, more ambulances, more medical cars, 20 additional emergency services around the country and, of course, particularly targeted those areas where there is a need to improve response times. You have to feel safe all over Denmark. A strengthened psychiatry with investments in psychiatric houses, more beds and more doctors, better coordination between general practice, municipality and hospital, so that the elderly medical patient or mentally ill person is not just discharged to nothing. That is the basic philosophy of the agreement here. Much needs to be done locally, and other things need to be lifted up national standards for IT systems, stronger patient rights, which are unique in Denmark, but which we must ensure are applied uniformly, so that it does not depend on the postal number which treatment you receive. That, then, is what means that we are closing down the regional councils, but that is also what we are doing, among other things. means that we have the muscle power to allocate 8.5 billion. kr. In a proximity fund, an extraordinary boost in the Danish health service, you can say, to improve, optimize, the main engine of health care, and then, year by year, as we usually do, you have to decide how much gasoline needs to be filled. Part of this 8.5 billion. kr. After all, 21 new health communities are being set up, which will be the framework for strong cooperation where patients live, and 21 patient and family councils are being set up for each health community where citizens can be the local voice on behalf of all of us. I hope that when such a normal reaction to the spinal cord and the slogans developed before you know the content are delivered are over, then you will look into this and reconsider your positions and help put the patient first and foremost. For health policy is not a game, and responsible solutions cannot be formulated on the back of a napkin or expressed in a single slogan. This is literally about life and death. We can all get sick, and our strong community must be recognized by the fact that we have a safe healthcare system. It has been greatly improved year by year since we introduced the free elections back in 2001 and ended with an old idea that it was more important to combat private hospitals than waiting lists. Since then, progress has only been made, but we are not in the end. The citizens of Denmark need us. We owe it to them to deliver serious and thorough answers, we owe it to them to put the patient first. We shall do so with the agreement that has been reached this morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326130549	Thank you. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326130609	Thank you. I would also very much like to speak about health policy today, and, of course, for us as Social Democrats, there are some things that are more important than others when we talk about health policy and our patients. It is time for the nurse to be able to look the patient in the eye, provide the care and care needed; time for the doctor to be there and to be present in all parts of Denmark • we lack catastrophic practitioners; time for the social and health assistant to be allowed to use his professional skills. Time is the crucial thing, closeness the next. It does not matter how far it is to the nearest hospital; it does not matter whether you have access to a general practitioner. And, of course, the economy is also crucial, because it is our responsibility to ensure that there is an economy to run a health service. The question is, of course, whether what we see today from the government responds to the three challenges, and I do not think that it does so sufficiently. But let us try to dive into some of the concrete things that the Prime Minister also calls for. Today, it is the Danes who decide where we have hospitals in the country, because it is we who, as voters and Danes, decide who sits on the regional councils, and thus whether or not we have a local hospital. If I understand the government correctly, in future it will be officials and boards who will decide how many hospitals we will have in Denmark and where they will be located. I am concerned that there is not only a good hospital in Odense, but that there is also one in Nyborg. I'm preoccupied with the fact that there's a hospital in Tønder. I am concerned that there is not only a good hospital in Aalborg, but also in Frederikshavn, Silkeborg and elsewhere. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister specifically: who will decide in future whether there is a hospital in Nyborg or Tønder or Frederikshavn or at Amager? Now the Prime Minister has four options.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326130819	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326130820	Thank you. It was a long, long play. I am a little surprised that Mrs Mette Frederiksen did not mention Svendborg Hospital. At the time, then, it was decided that this should be guaranteed as an emergency hospital. And, yes, what happened to it? What happened to it anyway? It was elected politicians like Mrs Mette Frederiksen and others from the party who said: vote for us, because then there is an emergency hospital in Svendborg. Where'd it go? We have the structure we have. Hospitals have been shut down out there. What you can say about this agreement is that, as far as the 21 emergency hospitals are concerned, I am sorry to use the expression, because it is not really my style set out and poured into concrete. Because the entire policy-making process is being created around the 21 emergency hospitals. And then the intention of this whole plan we're putting forward is to make sure that the offers get close. So there is no intention to close anything. If somebody wants to move around in the future, say that we're doing knee surgery at this electric clinic in that hospital, and now we're moving knee surgery to another hospital, then it's going to happen in a way where these health communities are involved in the decision-making process. So these are health communities where mayors sit, where committee chairmen sit, where citizens and patients sit. It will be lifted up in a health service where, for the first time in the history of the world, patients are directly present at the table at which decisions are made. And then everything will have to be done with respect for the development plan agreed in here at Christiansborg. So, in the end, Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself will be involved in sanctioning such a decision here. Perhaps that is very good, because the last Social Democratic election was to promise something on the hospital structure, it was not implemented in practice. There was no emergency hospital in Svendborg, even if it had been promised. Now we are making sure that we have a set of rules that will give you a theoretical opportunity next time at least to keep the promises on which we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131028-2	In fact, I only think that it is a man who lives in inner Copenhagen who talks about health in Denmark in that way: then you move some knee operations. It's not like that when you live in Thy and at Mother's. It's not like that when you live in South Jutland. It's not like that for Læsø, for North Jutland. It is not like that out there, where you are deeply dependent on whether there is a locally functioning hospital. That answer may reveal much more than the incredibly many pages on which the drama is presented today. Because it doesn't matter if there's an entire hospital. It doesn't matter where the specials are. It doesn't matter how to run the health care system. The last time the Prime Minister embarked on a major structural reform, what was the consequence? Centralisation, centralisation, centralisation. When I look down on the paper now, what will be the consequence? Centralisation, centralisation, centralisation. We could do so much together, make a broad deal, put the patient, time, care, near the center. The government has chosen not to do so. Let us return to my question: does this mean that the question of whether or not there is still a hospital in Nyborg is a decision taken here at Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131139	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131140	I do not know what the world looks like from North Zealand, where Mrs Mette Frederiksen has her daily life. I know what the world looks like from within my heart, which has beaten the health care system throughout my political career. And you can stand and caricate the changes we have made in the last 20 years; there has never been any indication of what we should have done differently. Well, what kind of hospitals do we need to reopen? What are the places where women were mistreated for breast cancer, which we must hurry to get reopened quickly so that they can fail again? Well, I just don't understand. I'm completely on target for the changes we've made, where we've collected the specialties. We're building 18 new supersickhouses...... the largest billion investment in new buildings since the medieval churches. That is what makes us in Denmark survive cancer better than we did, that we survive heart disease better than we did. I'm totally on target for it. And then you can call it centralization. You can call it what you want. But I am also on the goal that, if we are to stick to it, we need to move the tasks closer. Then you can choose to call it centralization, but how do 35 new state-of-the-art health houses to be built around Denmark become centralisation? How will 20 additional ambulance units, emergency units • four of them in North Jutland, an extra four in North Jutland for centralisation? How do 120 new medical practices to be built around the country turn into centralisation? I simply do not understand that. It is well understood, moreover, that in future health care has its origins in a development plan which the Minister of Health sets out according to the usual parliamentary tradition. And yes, it will give the Folketing a say, including on possible future structural changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131321	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131322	Well, I would say that we have gradually become accustomed to the fact that when it comes to social democracy policy, the Prime Minister is in a relatively bad mood. I am a little surprised that he is also in a bad mood over his own health policy. Well, that's amazing, isn't it? I thought that if nothing else, just today would be a day of joy for the Prime Minister. But maybe it reveals that you know what this is all about. After all, I am not standing here today saying that everything is bad in health care. A lot works well. I would argue that the reason why it works well in many places is our employees. We can't take that credit and that profit at all. It is our nurses who run faster than they can; it is our doctors who are working overtime; it is the social and health assistant who, although she has been on the labour market for many years, keeps coming in every day to provide her patients with the very best she can. But you can't just stand here and take credit for what works well. You also have to take responsibility for what doesn't work. And there is a lack of time in our health services; and it is a problem that you cannot get a GP on Lolland; and it is a problem if it gets too far. Because it is not only the specialist that is crucial when we talk about health policy that is also nearby. This is new to me, and I am not sure what the Prime Minister is saying either, but does it mean that it will be statutory after this health reform, which hospitals are in Denmark? Now the Prime Minister suddenly talks about participation. I ask on behalf of those who live in Nyborg, Tønder, Frederikshavn: Who decides if there is a local hospital? Is it passed by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131449	May I not say first that my mood is brilliant. Mette Frederiksen Yes, you can feel that). And then I have this parentheses sometimes, where it might be less brilliant, but otherwise it's basically brilliant. When I react in this way and I myself will define it as commitment it is because I simply think, and now I say it in Danish that it is poor that the only thing you can offer is such headlines as 1,000 more nurses, 10 near hospitals and forced printing of some doctors. I assume full responsibility, and I also have to take responsibility for the period 2011-2015, because otherwise it will disappear from history; it is part of the history of Denmark that would have disappeared. It's removed from the paintings down in the group room, it's removed from the rhetoric down here in the Parliament Hall. What happened? How many more doctors were trained? What was it that was met at the nurses' schools during that period, what actually happened there? We want to be judged by what we are doing and what we are doing is that we have increased the appropriations for health care by 6 billion. kr. Since the last parliamentary elections, a boost beyond what Mrs Mette Frederiksen went to the polls on the ▪ we have taken responsibility for it, along with a clever staff, and I agree 100% that it is they who have delivered the goods out there in order to make the health care better, and now there is a need to move it closer, and we have a concrete plan for that. Then you want to create such a scare-mongering that this plan to invest in 35 new health houses and everything else leads to hospital closures, but I can say that it should not, because the intention is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131623	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131630	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory comments. And thank you for working together on a health reform that will make one of the world's best health care systems even better in the future. For us in the Danish People's Party, it has been crucial that we create security for patients, for citizens, and we do so by creating greater proximity; we do so by providing more emergency preparedness; we do so by doing things that also cost a little more money. And that's why this proximity fund, with which the government had operated, is 6 billion. kr., suddenly grown to 8.5 billion. kr., for that we have money for the things we want. This is more closeness, more emergency preparedness, and so on. It is also based on the fact that there are enough staff. And it is quite true, as has just been said, that it is the talented health workers that we have everywhere in Denmark who really provide the security that is essential for the Danes. There must also be sufficient staff in the future, which is why some of what has been important to us is that we actually train more doctors with this agreement, and that together we will be training 118, it is well, more doctors per year compared to 12, it was shown, from 2011 to 2015 it is of course completely randomly chosen dates. So you just have to recognise that more doctors are being trained with what is happening in these years, among other things. at the request of the Danish People's Party, and we should be happy about that. And then some can invite in if they're upset about what they got done earlier, and then enjoy what we're doing now. What about the nurses? Yes, if you have 960 vacant posts in the second half of 2018, we can only hire more nurses if we also train more nurses. And what's in this deal? There is in it that we have to train 2,000 more nurses. That is actually very good, because then we can both fill the posts that are today vacant and then we can hire some more nurses. And if something is essential for health professionals not to run so fast and not to become so stressed that they cannot be in our hospitals, but will have to find other jobs in order to manage their lives and their families at all, and what else they have to do, then it is, of course, that we hire some more colleagues for those who are already there, that we also know that we recognise their professional skills and skills and that we really raise and respect that work by hiring some more colleagues for them. Well, time's up. Isn't the Prime Minister really very fond of all the achievements that the Danish People's Party has got into this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326131852	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Yes, I certainly think that the agreement has been better than what we proposed ourselves. It is a good thing that the proximity fund we had financed is worth 6 billion. kr., we have now been able to lift up to 8.5 billion. kr., among others. By taking it, you might say, financial gain from the immigration policy that we are pursuing because the number of asylum seekers is falling. We have also been more skilled at getting people on self-reliance than you were before, and it is clear that it is the results that trudge backwards if someone suddenly comes and says: we just have to set up the benefits and keep people in passivity. So, the fact that we have been able to strengthen the proximity fund, I am very, very pleased with it. I am also very pleased that some of the critical voices that have been heard not only from the Danish People's Party, but also from their own ranks and in the community, which is about where you as a citizen go, if you want to engage in the operation of health care, we have been able to pull in. I think it's quite unique, and I look forward to seeing it unfolded, that we have 21 patient and family councils where people, because they have a commitment to this, can run and be elected not because they are DFs or Social Democrats or Left or Conservatives, not on long lists, but as people. It may be someone who himself may have had experiences in connection with a relative who has been in a complicated process. I have stories like that myself. I remember back when I lost my mother in 2002. I then had my way of trying to pull it into the health service because I was Minister for Health, but I can easily imagine people who are in a situation like the one I've been in and who say: I want to raise my hand; I want to participate; I want to engage in it with some good advice on how to improve this. It will be unique and will engage hundreds of people directly around the operation of our close health care. And that wasn't in our first play. So there are a lot of places where this agreement is much stronger than it was intended for the first time. So much for the participation of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132059	That is quite right when you look at the financing of this proximity fund, which has grown from 6 to 8.5 billion. kr. that the 1.5 billion. kr. Then comes as a result of the fact that we are pursuing an alien policy that frees resources in the future. Some of the money we release can then be spent on strengthening our health care. Of course, as chairman of the Danish People's Party, I think that is very good. And we will continue along that path as well. Therefore for a very different subject, but yet with this as the hook, what we saw unfold on Friday here at Christiansborg Palace Square in the form of Hizb ut-Tahrir and their demonstration of power, one might call it. I think there were a lot of Danes who saw what was going on on Friday and with horror and abhorrence see that in our country there is a demonstration like that which we saw, where we do not understand a flap of what is being said, because it is going on in Arabic, where women and men must be separated, because women must not be with the men, and where one knows that one is dealing with an organization which has called for the killing of Jews, called for holy war, called for one not to take part in elections, and called for Sharia in Denmark. What is the Prime Minister's comment that it is actually a reality picture from Denmark anno 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132225	I simply do not like to look at that, to put it bluntly. I think it is in every way awful that people who are in Denmark • some of them born in Denmark • take such a deep distance from our whole social model and the way we have decorated with each other that they demonstrate with fanatical messages like what we saw. I don't like it. Then the next question could be: what will I do about it? I'll say what I mean. In other words, we also have a constitutional freedom of assembly and, as I have been informed, we are talking about a notified demonstration. So this is something that we must fight with the power of the word. I am now talking about the specific event that took place last Friday. This also applies to another small side event that took place, which I also did not like, with Koran burning and other things. I don't like it. I think it is awful, but I also have to respect the fact that we live in a legal society with a constitutional freedom of expression. So I strongly reject it from the point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132339	But if we just grab Hizb ut-Tahrir, it is an organisation which, after all, exceeds some significant limits. It is not just an organisation that asks for the right to make a demonstration, because it is true that it can be done in Denmark; it is an organisation that has called for the killing of Jews, as I say, it is an organisation that has previously called for holy war, it is an organisation that has called for not participating in Danish elections that want Sharia to be introduced in different ways in Denmark. I guess the thing is when you have the right to act as a union in this country with the rights you then gain under our constitution as a union. After all, we have a constitutional clause, i.e. Article 78. 2, which states that associations acting by or seeking to achieve their objectives by violence must be prohibited. We've had our hands on Loyal to Familia, which is such a biker faction, and we've done something about it. So the question is whether it is not time to look again at whether Hizb ut-Tahrir should be allowed to act as an association in this country at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132443	That's a good question. I firmly believe that Hizb ut-Tahrir must be banned if there is a basis for this, but as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also describes, it is regulated by the Constitution, how it should happen. And I think we should be glad that we have a constitution. These are people who really don't think we should have it and that we shouldn't have any democracy at all. It also has the attention of the Minister for Justice and has had it all the way through, and if I am reasonably well-informed, there has in fact been a reporting mechanism in my own last government that has ensured that the Attorney General has been able to keep up with this. So far, it has not been the assessment that there has been a solid enough basis to stand on to ban this organization, but that is something that we are following. Now a reference is made to Loyal to Familia, and it is a rather unique step that is being taken here, as we shall also see tested by judgment, and which can also have an impact on how case law is in relation to this. But let no one be in any doubt that we do not like this type of organisation, and if we do not respect the country's basic values expressed by our constitution, and if we act by violence, then we must be banned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132558	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132606	Thank you. Now, of course, we are about to go to the parliamentary elections, apparently not today, as we had hoped, but soon, after all. The fact, together with a number of bad cases of hidden party support, has caused the subject of the Danish rules to get up in the debate again, and a great deal has been discussed about openness about the cash flows in politics. Because there is actually quite a lot of money involved in Danish politics. They are used on ads and buses and everything else during such an election campaign, and they come from somewhere. It seems to me that it is absolutely fundamental in a democracy that voters have the opportunity to see where that money comes from and have the opportunity to take it into account when going down and ticking. Of course it is interesting to know that, if there have been a lot of parties sitting and giving bank packages for billions, then those parties also get party support from Danske Bank. It is a piece of information which means that you do not just mark your mark, but you mark a qualified cross. And I guess that's the epitome of democracy. So the possibility of keeping up with the cash flows seems fundamental to me, and that is also the basis on which we have a legal requirement that if you receive a donation of more than DKK 20,000, you have to publish who that money comes from. I would like to know what the Prime Minister thinks of the specific rule. Is it a good rule that we have that we should publish donations over 20,000 kroner??
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132800	I think the rule is 20,900 kroner. I don't know the rules in my head, because I'm not dealing with that side of political life at all. You can believe that or not, but I don't. I myself am also chairman of a party, but that part of the party's work is not something I am dealing with. However, we in the Danish Parliament have made a set of rules in which we have said that if you donate beyond a certain limit, which was originally 20,000, and which I think is priced, and which is therefore now 20,900 DKK, then whoever is donating must appear. These are the rules, and if they were to be different, I believe that a majority would have adopted them differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326132846	I fully agree with that. If it were to be different, there would of course have been a majority that would have adopted it differently. It may well be that the Prime Minister is not a treasurer in the Left. It wasn't the Left's economy either, I asked, it was the Prime Minister's political attitude to the rules in force, but as I understand it, the Prime Minister thinks it is good that there is openness about donations over DKK 20,900 and who has given them. I must at least understand that the Prime Minister is not going to change the rules, and then you have to think that it is because the Prime Minister thinks they are good. If that is the case, the next question will inevitably be what the Prime Minister thinks of the trick of the Prime Minister's party colleague, Mrs Britt Bager. Mrs Britt Bager has received 100 000 kroner. from the same donor, but has not given up who it is, so has kept the person's name hidden by letting donations come in five laps via five different companies. Does the Prime Minister think it right that the political rapporteur in the Left, Britt Bager, should receive five times 20 000 kroner? from the same donor without giving up who it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133005	You can't get anything from the same donor beyond these limits without having to publish it. You can't do that, so I can't believe it happened. If so, they must be different firms, i.e. independent legal entities; they cannot be both the same and different legal entities. But it's not really up to me to manage this set of rules. We have good people for that, and the Folketing adopts the rules. If you think that there is something in the rules that is not good enough, you have to come up with a proposal to make them better. I know we have the most open party support rules we have ever had. They are widely adopted in the Folketing. Yes, I think it creates the possibility that each 3F department in Nyborg, another 3F department in another Funen city and a third 3F department in a third city can each give some amounts that fall below this limit to some candidate, without it having to be said that 3F has given over 20,000, i.e. if it is independent departments. That's how our society is built. So the same legal entity cannot begin to give money in several rounds and then bypass the rules. But so, I know too little about it, and I think it must be an errand for the Folketing if you think there are some rules that need to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133132	That is not correct. One person can own five different companies and channel money in five laps via five different companies. If they are set up for the occasion or not, the matter is irrelevant. But it can come from the same person who covers himself under five different legal entities. That means, in practice, that you are hiding where the DKK 100,000. comes from because you've been using a fake. We cannot say, as the Prime Minister is doing now, that it is a very good thing that everyone who has donated more than 20 000 kroner should come out openly and that these are good rules, and at the same time we think that what the Left political rapporteur, Mrs Britt Bager, has done is quite fine. 'Cause she's got $100,000. from the same person and have bypassed it with this fake. So the Prime Minister needs to clarify to the crowd what is right to do here. Should there be transparency about who has donated an amount of over 20,000 kroner, or is it okay that there is no transparency about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133239	I think the right thing to do is to follow the laws of the country. I would always recommend that. And when we stand here in a parliament, I think it is right, if you think the laws of the country are wrong, to change them. I don't know how else to answer this question. Because what are the limits you want to get into? If a person is a minority shareholder in a company that gives money to the Alternative and the majority shareholder in another company that also gives money to the Alternative, is that a circumvention of the Rules, or what? I mean, when I use the alternative, it's just to illustrate that it's a political party. If you think there is something there, you have to set a job in motion in order to change the set of rules. You can't blame people for complying with the laws of the country. At least I will not do that as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133329	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133349	After all, we have already discussed here today various agreements that have been concluded in connection with the reform of health. I would just like to start by thanking you for the negotiations the alternative was part of. It was good to be in that negotiating room. It was also right for us to get out of it again. But thank you for that anyway. What I want to discuss is a completely different agreement, which has also been concluded very recently. This is the major infrastructure agreement concluded by the government and the Danish People's Party, which is a great deal, both economically and also in relation to the physical image that the agreement puts on Denmark and the Danish landscape. It is always possible to discuss whether these are the right priorities in relation to motorways and roads in general: 450 km of new roads. You can always discuss that. And where those roads lie, it has been a pretty big matter in public whether it has been right to prioritize in this way. But that is not actually my appeal and my question today. It is more that a very, very large agreement has been reached where no calculations have been made in relation to CO2 It is not just the alternative that wonders about it; it is also the Climate Council, it is CONCITO, it is the Organic Council that asks how one can make such a great deal of agreement without any kind of calculations being made on what it means in relation to CO2 Therefore, of course, I want to hear whether it is something the government intends to present and, in general, whether one intends to ensure that all these major, new decisions that are being made actually live up to the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133552	Thank you. I agree that this is a very big deal and it is good. It binds Denmark together. After all, we invest about half in roads and the other half in lanes, such in large round figures and, by the way, with an ambition that the black asphalt should turn green. This happens quite specifically by getting environmentally friendly asphalt on, which has lower friction, so the cars drive longer on the liter, but the more so by getting green cars on the roads. And there we have set the objective here, that from 2030 we shall phase out new registration of diesel and petrol cars. So you can't just take the standard of the day and say how it sits over time. Having said that, it is true that climate and environmental impact are elements of the socio-economic analyses for several of the projects, but it is quite true that you cannot just add it up and get a total calculation. It would require the recalibrate of this model of international traffic, and as it is enlightened to me, it is not a very simple matter. It is not the same as that it is inviolable, but it is not a very simple matter and it is not a quick matter either. And that's probably why there aren't these assessments now. As far as I am concerned, I must say politically that I think it is absolutely essential that we now take care to ensure that the transport that takes place on the roads we build is climate-friendly and environmentally friendly transport rather than that we fall into the view that we should not build roads. After all, things must be balanced, and we also need Denmark to be linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133728	But what you are left with, of course, when you hear what the Prime Minister says, is that one is word, another is action. Last Question Time I referred to Morten Løkkegaard, who is the leading candidate for the Left for the European Parliament elections, and who went out and said: the environment and climate must be a crucial parameter when we make decisions. And then you make a huge infrastructure decision without a single calculation being made in relation to the climate footprint and CO2 Well, I think this is loud to heaven, but we're gonna have to do that in the election campaign. Then we need to find out what is word and what is action. My second question is also whether we are now fulfilling our ambitions, and that is where we have signed up to what is called the 2000 EU Water Framework Directive, which we had nine years to implement. It has now been 20 years and we have not implemented it. And then Denmark asks for a delay to 2027, I think it is. So again: words and actions. What does the Prime Minister think of that dilemma?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326133848	Thank you. I have to arrest the fact that there should not have been a single calculation. So, if I remember what I said one minute ago, it was that climate and environmental impact are elements of the socio-economic analyses for several of the projects, and the environmental conditions are then elucidated in the vvm statement. But it is true that it is not added up. There is no overall calculation, and I fully agree with that. Well, I think words and actions should go together. That's why you have to keep what you promise, and you don't have to promise more than you can keep. That is where we need to find a balance and we sometimes find ourselves in balance. I come from an EU summit where I made a great deal of trying to get the whole College to say: should we not embrace the objective of climate neutrality by 2050? I didn't do that, did I? So that's the reality I find myself in, too. I cannot without the preparation of the details of what is being asked about, but the European Union is set up as a political cooperation and a legal framework, and it is usually the case that we in Denmark live up to things. And if there are circumstances that make us unable to do so, then there is also an opportunity to say that we cannot do so with the deadline we have agreed, and then we must adjust the deadline. But I just want to say that if you look at Denmark from the outside, i.e. also measured up to 27 other EU countries, then the ordinary picture of Denmark is not a picture where we do not deliver on what we promise. Well, it's not a picture I recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134025	Last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134026	In fact, I had just hoped that the Prime Minister had said: yes, that is not good enough; we have a joint responsibility here, and that is just not good enough. There was a demand that we should have implemented this in 2009. Now we're going to write 2019. Then we got it moved to 2021, and now we're asking for it to be postponed to 2027. It is about our water and streams, about the protection of lakes and all the life around them. So I had actually just hoped that the Prime Minister had said: No, of course it is not good enough; we must do better, period. Something that both the Prime Minister and I experienced last Friday about demonstrations, which have also been mentioned here, was another kind of demonstration: the climate demonstration down at the Palace Square. And I am sure that the Prime Minister was just as happy in the heart and in the head and almost everywhere you can be happy when he went down there and saw children and young people demonstrate and climate strike to save our planet and all the life that is on the planet on which we all live. At any rate, I was impressed by this, and I am quite sure that the Prime Minister was also impressed. So my question from the members of the Alternative is: when you experience children and young people who go out and manifest themselves in the way they did on Friday, does this mean that the government will actually pursue a climate policy that 1:1 meets what climate science says we have to live up to?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134158	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134159	I can confirm that it made a great impression on me in many dimensions, both the commitment, but also the fear of some, with whom I think we also have a joint responsibility to work a little. Because, of course, you have to take all this seriously. That's what young people do, they're deeply involved. But fear must not get out of hand, because we have tasks that can be handled if we want to. Then I also went home with me that we have a shared responsibility for telling what we are actually doing. I mean, when young people come to me at the age of 12 and ask why I do not remove the taxes on electric cars, because it could sort of solve everything, then it is nice to be able to tell them that we have done so. So this has many dimensions, but first of all I'm going home with me, that there's a huge commitment, and you have to take that seriously. That is why our ambition is also to make our contribution at home and abroad to achieving the Paris objective. I guess then, in fact, and now, unfortunately, the lamp lights up, so we're gonna have to take it another day... that the fight out is gonna be harder than this one at home. I have just come from an EU summit where you might think that the European Union as a frontrunner, even until the Paris Summit, would have said: we are going to grab the objective and commit to it. It didn't happen, so there's a huge job.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134327	Thank you. The question is closed. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134335	It's not the last question hour, I'll tell the PM. There's one again in 14 days, but of course it could be the last one. It's a little up to the Prime Minister, of course. If you are tired of it, you can do what may seem natural, namely strike. At any rate, if you listen to the debate today, I think you can sense, even if we do not have an election date, that we have an election campaign going on. And congratulations to the government on the election document that has been made together with the Danish People's Party in the field of health, which is characterised by the fact that it is, in other words, an election document, something that will become a reality on the other side of a parliamentary election if the present majority continues. That is why I was just baffling at the Prime Minister's wording at the beginning that health policy is not a game. I really think that was wise words which might have been usefully taken into account earlier in the process. Because I believe that there are a great many patients, relatives and staff out there today who feel that they have been caught exactly in a political game where, at the eleventh hour, they have chosen to make this agreement with the narrowest possible majority and then it is all up in the air. No one knows what health care management is like and will be like in the future. The government has had four years, but if it comes out with this for the eleventh hour, it can be said. I think that everyone, regardless of who you are and how you go about it, would like patients to do well and would like to give the staff proper conditions and provide good health care throughout the country. That's not what we disagree about. What we disagree about is whether the state is better at securing it than you are locally, as we know it today. What is the problem now is that the uncertainty is for everyone. In other words, what has united patient organisations and staff groups is that they have rejected a great deal of structural reform, because what we agree on is that there are some patient groups for which we need to do better. But the general health system is actually excellent. But even what is not about the election, there is uncertainty. That is why my question is: what is it that makes you so far into the parliamentary term and where you have been working on this and have not suddenly invented interest in the health service? I admit that I give the answer to some of the most vulnerable citizens, those in the specialized social area, that we cannot unfortunately answer that, you can have a hearing, and then we will talk about it again in August? I guess it's to use the PM's own words to make politics on the back of a napkin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134555	No, it's not. First of all, I'd like to arrest the fact that this was supposed to be a very, very big structural reform. It's not. In other words, there are some 137 000 people working in regionalised health care or something in that region, and I believe that there are 500 to 800 people who are affected by this either because they are doing tasks that no longer need to be solved or because they are doing tasks that need to be solved elsewhere. So to draw that picture that now throws up all the dice, and that no one knows where they land again, is a wrong picture. This reform on the whole health section is also based on initiatives that have been taken during this parliamentary term and have been prepared during this parliamentary term in different committees and other areas. And it is then assembled in this agreement where the opposition's response is: 1,000 nurses, military service for the doctors. Yes, that is true, but it is true that democracy is designed in such a way that if this is to become something first, then we have to regain the power of government. When I say first of all, it is because history, after all, is rich in examples of things that have been opposed but which are still being introduced. In other words, we could mention the municipal reform, the abandonment of the counties, which the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party remained outside, and which was then hugged and evaluated to be a success. One could mention the pre-retirement reform, which was chosen to remove and which was subsequently proposed by the Commission itself. So there are, after all, historical examples that you have been against something when you were in opposition and that you have embraced it afterwards. Well, you can hope so. I hope that we will not have the opportunity to demonstrate it, because that would require us to lose the elections, but in that respect I would hope that there will be the same movement here, namely that we get to grips with things and think that there really is a perspective. Then I would like to say about the social area that what drives these changes and the health communities and the regions is health policy. And then it is true that there are some highly specialised social institutions where we think, precisely so as not just to gamble with things, that we need to learn something more about this before we finally decide whether it should be anchored in direct state operational responsibility in the form of a self-serving institution, or whether it can be anchored without loss of knowledge in the municipal structure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134817	I just think that when people listen, including to the Prime Minister today and also in other answers, there is no doubt about what it is. It's an election campaign. That's what you hear. Earlier election campaigns and pre-retirement, and I don't know what they're gonna do. But I'm just saying about this particular area, that this is an area that has tried it before, that is, the specialized social area. I guess it's about 1,000 kids and 3,500 adults with tough challenges, autism, severe brain damage. What I don't understand is that they're gonna be throwing ball at this time. Why hasn't the government prepared it properly and created a certainty? You could have had broad agreements about the things that were about the patients here. We also offered it along the way. But for the Prime Minister and the Danish People's Party it has been crucial that this became an election campaign theme about the survival of the regions. What I just regret and lament today is that those who have to live in insecurity, including those children and adults who are not at all enough to decide on a parliamentary election, but who are, of course, very worried today and who also express it, among other things. in the case of disabled persons' organisations. They express their greatest concern about what this uncertainty is going to lead to by the loss of knowledge and inferior service the tracks scare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326134935	I do not know what these are precisely too broad an agreement that could have been reached. Could we have reached a broad agreement with the Radical Left to maintain the government's policy on foreigners in the strict form and say no to increases in benefits, which will ensure that we get a billion dollars into the proximity fund? Could we have reached an agreement with the Radical Left to finance the close health services with 35 new health houses, 20 additional emergency services and 21 strong health communities by removing the regions in the form we know them now? No, I guess we couldn't. It is good to go for broad agreements, but they must also be good. We usually make broad agreements. We have made 156 agreements in this parliamentary term. The 137 of them are made over the middle. So it's not like we insist that we do everything ourselves. But sometimes you also have to do what you think is right. That is what we did when the Radical Left and the Social Democrats left us and we made the whole reform that has led us to have the regions and to have the specialization in hospitals and to have the boost in treatment, which is now apparently everything's paradise that must not be tampered with. We did that because we thought it was right. Politics also consists of doing what you think is right sometimes. That's what we're doing here. Fortunately, we live in a democracy. If you think it should be different from what we have proposed, then you choose some others. So I would say about the specialized social area that it is precisely an expression of not making people play ball and taking the time to have this examined before making the final decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135105	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135107	I guess that's what leaves people in amazement. This is a super well-prepared reform where, unfortunately, there was no opportunity to examine what is the right solution to ensure the efforts of the 3,500 adults and the 1,000 children with perhaps the greatest needs of all! But there's been plenty of time. After all, it is not because the government has not allowed time to pass and now the Prime Minister himself is bringing in foreign policy. 759 million kr. one could find out was exactly what one needed on a island of exile in Stege Bay, handshaking legislation etc. It's not like the government hasn't been able to figure out how to spend money or something like that. It's just a question of what interests it. When you ask about the most vulnerable groups in Danish society, what is the Prime Minister pulling out? It is something about foreign policy and the radical Left's disagreement with the government about it. And yes, I am happy to say that I do not think that refugees should be taken out of our nursing homes, where they now care for the elderly, and send them home to satisfy the Danish People's Party's appetite for politics. I do not think that 759 million. kr. to a island of exile in Stege Bay is the right way to spend the money. However, I do not think all that is known to leave the most vulnerable citizens in this society without a solution just because it is an election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135219	But we do not leave anyone in uncertainty. We have the structure we now have with regions which will not be closed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and we have plenty of time. That is because we take politics seriously. After all, the government has put forward a proposal for which we must then have a majority. And Mr. Morten Østergaard, no matter how delicious he wants to make himself, doesn't really offer the many things when it gets serious. It is also precisely in the light of the decentralization of the highly specialised area that took place with the municipal reform that we are saying that we cannot just make a simple solution to that. We cannot just say that this is all out to the municipalities or everything up to the state. We need to go further in order to secure them precisely, as Mr. Morten Østergaard ▪ I agree with that in many contexts, calling society's most vulnerable people. What is in focus for us is to ensure that there is no despecialisation. That is also why this agreement provides for a greater degree of national coordination. Anyway, sir. Morten Østergaard can sign up under the tabs and help put this into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135335	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135340	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard for focusing on the specialized social area, because that is absolutely crucial, even in the health agreement that the government has today, which abolishes the regions and centralises our health care. Of course, I and the SF disagree deeply with that. However, I do not want to spend the Question Time today discussing structure or centralisation, but instead I would like to ask the crucial prerequisite for strong and well-functioning hospitals, namely the provision of more resources in the years to come. The health agreement is heavily underfunded, and the money that is expected is largely birds on the roof because it comes from the savings that are hoped to be made home by dismantling the regions. The Ministry of Finance has stated on several occasions that it is necessary to cover the demographic development we have up to 2025 and to add 11 billion to health alone. kr. kr. The government has far from delivered that. In view of the fact that the government's tax concessions since 2015 will have cost the Treasury approx. 18 billion kr. By 2025, it should be an affordable task for the government. So my question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: can the Prime Minister confirm that the health agreement does not add 11 billion? kr. more to health in 2025, and thus resources per year. patient falls yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135516	No, I cannot confirm that, because there is a question that is asked other than what we are giving an answer to. The health reform, the health agreement, is about providing extraordinary resources that have not been taken from the scope, but which are extraordinary in terms of the room for manoeuvre we have, and now I use a simplistic image, but it is to try to make me understand, so I myself understand what I am saying: to give the engine, that is, the engine that drives our health care, an overtaking. That is what we are now spending 8.5 billion. kr. to. Then it will be the case that even if we have the world's hottest and most trimmed engine that runs longer on the liter than any other engine before in the history of the world, we still have to put on gas so that it can move at all. That's why it's going to be the case that next to this 8,5 billion boost. kr., which is exceptional, of which 4 billion will be invested. kr. in health centres, ambulance services, new medical practices, and 4.5 billion. kr., which is fixed, permanent money, is invested in our staff in order to lift them up to be able to cope with this task relocation, which in the long term lies in this plan will be needed year by year to add extra money to health care, also to deal with demographic pressure, but it's just not addressed in this plan, because that's not the purpose of it. If you look at the history, you will see that the governments I have led have also had the willingness to pay against the governments, or was it just one that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr himself sat in. In other words, we added EUR 0.5 billion from the country in 2015 to increase the funding for health care. kr. more than what was contained in the proposal on which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr himself went to the polls.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135703	I thought it would be difficult for the Prime Minister to answer simply yes or no, and I heard it was. I thought it was a very simple question. For the Ministry of Finance says very clearly that if you are to cover demographic development, because fortunately we also hopefully both you and I live longer, because the Danes do that in general, and because we have more children, it takes 11 billion. kr. more than what the government has put up for now, for health in 2025 • 11 billion. kr.! Now I'm not talking about getting any more, but just about the same level of service as now. I think that a lot of staff in the hospital, health care, and a lot of patients find it difficult to see how to actually do it for the money that is today, how to treat more patients for less money in the future. So I would really like to ask on behalf of all the health workers: now that the government and the Danish People's Party's Health Agreement do not deliver the necessary 11 billion. Will the Prime Minister then guarantee that it will not be the employees who will in future pay the price by having to run even faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135817	It's like it doesn't matter what I answer, because the answers aren't taken down. I think it is a deliberate misunderstanding; I think it is. It can't be that hard to understand. We are just trying to take the picture again: there is an engine that we are investing 8.5 billion. kr. extra in. If it's going to run, it's going to need gas, and we're thinking that we're going to have to buy petrol from the gas station to the gas station, and that's finance laws and financial agreements. And yes, if you do not add extra operating money to the health service in the coming years, no matter how well the Danish health service is arranged, it will not be coherent, and therefore there will be more money for the Danish health care system than that provided for in the agreement. There will also be more money than if someone else did, because what is crucial here is that we invest extraordinaryly in addition to what is to be put into operation in the coming years. Because of demography, we invest exceptionally 8.5 billion. kr. in 35 new health centres, in 20 additional emergency care centres, in making an uplift to medical school, in increasing the standards in our nursing schools by 2,000 etc. etc., and then we will decide in the future how more money is to be spent. That is what we have done historically. That is one of the reasons why health care has today had a real growth rate of 40% since I became Minister of Health for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326135950	It's funny how the PM would like to talk about cars and engines. We then go along with the gas business, but we know that the public sector is not working if there are no more employees out there. But the government hasn't put that up in this plan. It's such a confession case. That is why I would like to turn to another issue, in fact another one, in my last question. It is about the agreement that the government has also made with the Danish People's Party to deprive the regions of environmental responsibility. Specifically, it is about moving the task with the many toxic causes, the major soil pollution cases, away from the regions and into the state. Two statements have been found, with which I fully agree in substance, from the Prime Minister's party colleague Stephanie Lohse, who is also chairman of the Danish Regions. The President says: an engineer, a geologist, an excavator will not be cheaper by the state solving the task. And she continues: if the agreement becomes a reality, it will result in more centralisation and less democracy in the environment. The agreement will mean that the tasks are moved far away from the thousands of citizens living on a contaminated site, close to a gravel pit or concerned about local drinking water. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister agree with his party colleague and chairman of the Danish Regions, Stephanie Lohse?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140111	Thank you. Well, I'm a little sad to have to answer that and just let go of the other, because if there's a confession in what I said before, it's all about: yes, there's a need for more staff; yes, there's a need for more money. Re-select me and you'll see it in practice, because that's the way it's been historic. We work completely like the government of which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr himself was a member. We make financial laws every year, and every year we increase the appropriations for health care, and we intend to continue to do so. I'm sure some people will be sorry to hear this, but we've been better at it than those who were before us. Because when Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister, they said they were going to spend a given amount, and there we said: we are spending 0.5 billion. kr. More! Then I would say that I do not find it very surprising that Stephanie Lohse, who is chairman of the Danish Regions, takes the basic view of the interest organisation in this discussion that has taken place. She'd be a bad foreman if she didn't. The Grindsted plant is where it is. Harboøre Tange is where it is. It's not gonna be moved with this reform. What's going to happen to this reform is that we're going to invest more in cleaning up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140225	Thank you, and the question is closed. In order to give the last questioner a little more calm, we will only call the vote now. So there's a little break in 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140718	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: Karina Due (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 149 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the extension of the pepper spray scheme). Peter Kofod (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 150 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on state supervision of lawyers in the country). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Pernille Schnoor, the Alternative, and Julius Graakjær Grantzau, the Alternative, have informed me that they want to take the query no. F 23 on the impact of advertising on children and young people to the Minister for Health back. The question has now been dropped. From the Prime Minister, I have received letters stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 15 March 2019, it was decided that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 20 March 2019, the announcements will be printed in www.folkingstidende.dk (cf. Below) According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 15 March 2019 provides that 1 and 2 of the Law on the Maritime and Fisheries Fund, cf. Legislative Decree No. 19 of 4 January 2017, as amended by § 38 of Law No. 1518 of 18 December 2018, to lay down criteria for the assessment, prioritization and submission of applications for grants for municipal watercourse restoration projects as well as for the watercourse content of these applications, shall be transferred from the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality to the Minister for the Environment and Food per year. 25 March 2019. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen According to my recommendation, it is by Royal Resolution of 20 March 2019 that Legislative Decree no. Article 33 (1) and (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. 6, and § 70 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (vi)) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) ( 4 and 6 of the Emergency Response Act, cf. Legislative Decree No. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 144 of 28 February 2018, to lay down provisions on waste, animal husbandry, pests and other conditions when necessary to prevent and counter pollution and unsanitary conditions, as well as on fire protection at campsites, shall be transferred from the Minister for the Environment I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140852	The items listed as No. 5 and 6 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140906	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140912	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, KF and 1 (by mistake)), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326140955	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141000	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141035	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141039	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 86 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 20 (EL, ALT and RV). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141125	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141131	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141213	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141218	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141300	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141307	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141349	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141355	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141447	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141451	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 9 (EL). The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141545	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141611	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141646	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141653	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (RV and SF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4-8, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141809	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141817	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141849	Amendments have been tabled. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326141854	Thank you, President. After all, the bill is about people on transfer income, apart from pensioners, now having to be forced to save up for their own pension. The amount they usually pay to the pool will in future be paid to their pension instead. It is, of course, better than if the stake pool theft had continued. But, frankly, it is too poor for people who already have very little to live for to have to pay their own pension savings in this way, and then they will even find it offset in health allowances, heating supplements, old people's cheques and housing benefits. It should of course be all taxpayers who contributed through the tax ticket to sweeten life a little for the large group outside the labour market due to illness, disability or unemployment. And then one should undo them the small increase in income, it would be for them to be allowed to keep for themselves the money that has so far been put into the rate pool, and one should undo them the fact that their transfer income would in future be regulated on an equal footing with wage developments, just as it is now, fortunately, the case for folk pensioners. It would fall in a dry place. But obviously it should not be the case in a Parliament where the same parties who have made this proposal think that it is so generous to be on transfer income that one can also help to reduce taxes on those who are in work, and especially on the high-paid, through an even worse regulation of their transfer income, according to the tax reform of 2012, confirmed by the parties behind this bill. The least that can be done if the proposed system is to be introduced is to make sure that these groups are not disadvantaged than they have been with the pool regulation, but that is not necessarily the case. During the committee's work, we have been confirmed that if wage developments are less than 2.3 percent, the groups concerned will receive benefits, early retirement and cash benefit recipients will have a worse regulation than with the rate-pooling regulation. It is also pointed out in the hearings from the Elders Case, Danske Handicaporganisationer og Landsforeningen LEV. We think that this should be corrected. That is why we have tabled an amendment which corrects it, but even this modest amendment, plus a few other proposals that can make these groups a little better, is rejected by the conciliation parties. I find that sad. So is the Minister's reason for the refusal. If the wage developments on which the Minister is building his entire bill are maintained, then it would be totally cost-neutral to implement our proposal. But now the Minister suddenly argues that if wage developments are lower than predicted, it will cost money. The Minister is, of course, right about that. But tell me, doesn't the Minister believe in his own pay forecast? Or has it been deliberately chosen to produce a wage trend which makes the proposal look nicer than it is, in a reality where wage developments are modest, what it has been in the last 14 years? It would be nice to have an answer from the Minister. It would also be nice to hear from the parties behind this bill: is it on purpose and in cold blood that you choose a regulatory mechanism which means that the groups you say you want to accommodate risk getting less money between your hands than they do with the current rate pool regulation? Unfortunately, there can be no doubt that the parties are doing so with open eyes, because we have drawn attention to the problem both in the financial law negotiations and in the committee procedure. So, unfortunately, if they maintain their position to vote against our amendments, the conclusion must be that it is on purpose and in cold blood.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326142245	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326142250	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2, 3, 6, 18, 25 and 27, tabled by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Twenty-six, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, 5 and 7 members of the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 16 and 28, tabled by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9, Member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 of a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 19, tabled by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12-15, 17 and 20-22, joined by the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 23 of a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 24, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326142643	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326142649	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326142752	Then I think it's gonna be quiet again. At least I'm gonna ask you to calm down now. The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326142820	Thank you. It is true, as the President has just said, that the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, among other things. It's about compensation from the state to victims of crime. After all, this is a subject that we have discussed quite a number of times in this Chamber. As far as social democracy is concerned, it is very clear that when you are the victim of a crime and are entitled to compensation, the matter must be dealt with quickly and it must be dealt with effectively. Unfortunately, it has to be said that when you look at the length of the proceedings at the board which then deals with these claims since the change of government, things have gone very badly. For example, the length of proceedings at the Compensation Board in rape cases has increased by as much as 37 days. That is by no means a good thing, and that is why we have understood that the government is saying a great deal about the fact that it wants to do something about the length of proceedings at the Compensation Board. The Social Democratic Party agrees with this, and so we can also support this bill, which, it must be said, makes it more efficient, more flexible and, hopefully, makes it quicker at the Compensation Board. We hope that this will help, but we do not think that the government has lived up to its fine promises to the victims of crime yet. We hope that the government will bring more if there is to be coherence between what you say and what you do. For the Social Democrats, the fight for better conditions for victims of crime has been a long battle. We have established a victim fund that helps ensure that victims of crime can receive help in everyday life. We have also, as we were in government ourselves, expanded the scope for the victims to be informed if, for example, their perpetrator appears in a major television interview, something that for many people creates great insecurity and which, as a notification, can help to create security for. We have been involved in and have also led to ensure that the victims' version in their case could be more central in legal proceedings, and we have strengthened the Compensation Board. There is no doubt that this is a very important issue. There are far too many who rightly feel that matters are taking too long and have probably had greater expectations of the government when it was about what one might expect the government to do to help victims of crime, and especially when it was about quick and effective proceedings at the Compensation Board. But the Social Democratic Party supports this. This is certainly a step in the right direction. It is a small step and we hope that at some point the government will ensure and also show the victims of crime that there is a connection between words and action in what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143116	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143128	Thank you for that, President. There is no doubt that the length of proceedings in the Compensation Board has been quite unacceptable. Of course, if you have been the victim of an attack, rape or any other form of crime, you should not be dragged through a long process until an action for damages can be settled. The Danish People's Party has been shouting about this for a long time, and we have demanded a faster procedure. That is why we were also pleased that, in connection with the conclusion of the Finance Act, we had the money allocated to some more case officers so that the processing times could be reduced to an acceptable level. The victims of crime deserve more rapid clarification, both so that they can move forward in life, but certainly also for them to feel that they are being taken into account and that the crime committed against them is being taken seriously. So DF will, of course, vote in favour with pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143228	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments here either, so we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143240	Thank you. I am not going to continue the socialist genealogy of all the good things that the Social Democratic Party has done, but to concentrate a little on the proposal we have today. It is therefore a proposal that should make it easier to obtain compensation or, at least, to obtain compensation more quickly from the Compensation Board. As you know, this is about people who have been subject to criminal offences, at least as a starting point, and this is about compensation for personal injury, again as a starting point. It must be reported today within 72 hours. Several speakers, at least the last two, have mentioned the totally unacceptable waiting time that has been left by the Compensation Board. One can imagine that whoever is attacked is unpleasant enough, I have no doubt about that. Then you will have to testify in the court of the city and have everything refreshed a month or a few months later, and it may well be that the matter is appealed to the court of law, and then you can witness there and have it all refreshed again. However, I believe that for many, the waiting period and the extensive correspondence with the Compensation Board have been the worst in order to document claims and the like, including incredibly many small things. We cannot be familiar with this, and we are doing something about it with this proposal. The waiting time is being reduced and it is being reduced by some very concrete measures. Claims of up to DKK 3,000 Expressed without the usual conditions. As far as digital self-service is concerned, even before the criminal proceedings are settled, you will be able to get your claim through with the Compensation Board. Because there may be more defendants. Finally, the deadline for making further demands is also changed after the mention has taken its decision. These are all excellent things. I also hope that this will be followed up by a perhaps slightly altered procedure culture at the Compensation Board. I believe that every lawyer in the Kingdom of Denmark can sign that it has had the character of a find five error competition when people have filed their reviews there, and every time there is the answer to a question, the matter has come back in the back of the pile. At least I've felt that way. So I hope that formalism will also come to an end now, and this is a very, very good step on the road. Finally, I would like to make a recommendation to the Minister of Justice. A great deal of the work the police are doing here today, I am thinking of the compensation case... should be able to take care of the caregiver's courage in this case, the public, without the police being involved. It could be in situations where convicted persons, for example, have dropped some plate after a caretaker. Colossal amounts of police hours are spent on that situation, and when it is done it is because a few years ago, in a note in an annual report, the Compensation Board wrote that they assumed that public employees police reported these conditions. As I have said, it has provided enormous work for the police for no purpose in the world, everyone knows the outcome of the case, for the judge has continued to be sentenced, so beyond a whole lot of money and time waste it does not lead to anything. So I hope that, as a continuation of this subject, the Minister will also look at what I have just mentioned, namely the practice that became a consequence of what was created by the Compensation Board in an annual report. Summa summarum is the proposal we have here, a very good step in the right direction, and it will help with processing time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143624	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143638	As a society, we owe a helping hand to the people who are exposed to a crime, and a number of conditions, including the length of proceedings in the Compensation Board, have not worked well enough. The draft law we are discussing is based on an analysis work which resulted in a number of recommendations, and we can see that the consultation responses in relation to the draft law are almost all positive, and therefore Enhedslisten also goes to the ongoing committee work with a positive attitude. We certainly believe that this proposal is a step in the right direction, albeit a very small step. I could actually end here, but when I am still standing up here, I cannot help expressing a quiet wonder that these steps have not already been taken long ago. Because when you hear the public debate, there is no limit to how much a majority of parties in this House take the side of the victims. Or perhaps it is really not so much about the consideration of the victims, but more about abusing the suffering of the victims to infinity aggress for higher penalties. In the Enhedslist, we are very concerned about the victims, not only those who, unfortunately, have already become victims, but also those who are at risk of doing so in the future. Exactly why we cannot sing the song that all problems can be solved with more and more punishment. Any punishment that takes the victims seriously must have a dual purpose, on the one hand, to enforce the sense of justice so that we do not develop a society of vigilanteness and, on the other, to ensure the rehabilitation of the perpetrator. If we fail to do so, new victims have really been opened up, and our purpose is to help ensure that they are safe, and we think it should be for everyone that there will be the least possible victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143859	Too long processing times in the Compensation Board is the last thing that victims need. I think that is very difficult to disagree with. And the processing times have been too long, and that is what we have a responsibility to lift. To this end, an external analysis has been carried out of the entire victim compensation area, which was completed last year, and the recommendations which came out of the work and which require legal treatment are what we are dealing with here. The previous speaker wondered a little why this had not happened in the past, when we have been talking about standing on the side of the victims for so long now, and one may of course wonder for a long time, but I also think that one can be pleased that it is now happening. So now talk about standing on the side of the victims is being replaced by the act of standing on the side of the victims. At least I welcome that and the Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143951	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326143958	There seems to be widespread agreement that this is a sensible legislative proposal, and that is what we believe in the alternative. There are a few details we will look at in the committee work. It may be how to find the information from the Compensation Board; it may be that one should try more to produce what was possible, the applicable, the expected compensation amounts, rather than having to obtain data. I do not really see this as the big problem, because I think that the solution that has been made seems reasonable, but at least that is something I have taken note of in the hearings. Then I think it is gratifying and a sign of trust and also something that can create confidence in the whole system that, if it were to be the case that an amount had been paid out later, when the whole matter was finished, it was not quite as it should be, then it could be repaid, so that there could then be a requirement for it to be repaid. I think it is a fine gesture that, instead of dragging it all off, it is said that the few times when there is going to be a problem where something that should not have been paid out has been paid out, you make sure that, instead of leaving it all to the detriment, it is repaid. I think that is generally an excellent practice which we should use as many places as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144110	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144116	Thank you. We in the Radicals support what all the other rapporteurs have said before me, namely that it means something that the processing times are not too long. In fact, as the rapporteur on the left described very well, it can be very violent to be in the process. And that's why I think it's good that the government is taking these steps. I think it sounds like sensible steps to achieve the goal. That is why we too, on behalf of the Radicals, would like to endorse the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144148	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144155	With good reason, we often focus on how to punish criminals, but all too often we fail the victims. I have seen that Helle Hald, an aid lawyer and spokesperson for the Association Help Violence Victims, to Danmarks Radio has said: "For a lot of people their lives are put on hold because they are maintained in the position that they are the victims of a crime, because the case is not closed yet and they are in a waiting position. It's extremely stressful, she says. Against this background, it is obvious that improvements are needed. But I have now also attached myself to the responses from the Danish Women's Society and Help Victims of Violence, who note that it must also be taken into account that not all applicants will be able to use a digital self-service solution and that therefore there may be a need to be represented by an agent or an aid lawyer. We would like that to be taken into account as well. With it, the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144257	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144303	Thank you. In Denmark, we pay compensation to victims of criminal offences. An allowance cannot change what has happened. As a victim, we still have to deal with the possible psychological and physical repercussions that a criminal offence may have, but to some extent the compensation constitutes a Band-Aid on the wound. It helps with the sense of justice. We in Conservatives and the government have fought for the focus on the victim rather than the criminal. We must help the victim before we help the criminal, and here is a replacement an element that can improve the conditions of a victim. Unfortunately, it has been the case for some time that the waiting period for the award of compensation in the Compensation Board has been very unsatisfactory. We want to do something about that. That is why we are proposing to introduce a special process for claims up to a certain amount. We will have better opportunities for information sharing between the various bodies, and we will allow the Compensation Board to take decisions in cases where a final judgment has not yet been delivered. The proposals follow some of the recommendations that were concluded in an external analysis of the victim replacement area. With the bill, we do not reach the goal immediately, but it is sensible steps in terms of improving the conditions of the victims and providing them with as good and smooth a way through the system as possible. That is why we support the draft law in Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144441	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144450	Thank you for that and thank you for receiving the bill here. I'm really glad about that. After all, as everyone has said, the length of the proceedings in the Compensation Board has for a long time been completely unsatisfactory. I think we can all agree that under no circumstances can we be familiar with the victims involved. We hear some horrible examples where victims have been subjected to extremely serious attacks, which have turned their lives completely upside down, and where they have to fight a long and tough fight to get their compensation. It is not just a question of money, but just as much and perhaps even more a question of being able to put the matter behind us and move forward, and that is simply not fair; it can be done better, and it is absolutely essential that these matters be dealt with as quickly as possible so that we can move on with our lives as a victim. This is also why an external analysis of the victim replacement area was carried out in 2018. The analysis was completed in October 2018 and contains a large number of recommendations on how to reduce the processing time in the Compensation Board for the benefit of the victims. A number of the recommendations are already in the process of implementing. With the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, some of the recommendations that require a change of law are being implemented. This means, among other things, that as a victim with a claim of up to DKK 3,500. compensation is awarded after a faster process. Access to eAccess and the possibility of obtaining an opinion on permanent but or loss of earning capacity from persons other than the Social Security Fund must also facilitate the processing of claims before the Compensation Board. The same applies to the possibility of introducing rules on the use of a digital case portal, which the Danish Civil Service Agency has already started preparing for use in 2020. In addition, the bill also contains proposals which allow the Compensation Board to decide on compensation and compensation to a greater extent, even if the criminal proceedings against the perpetrator have not been settled by final judgment if the consideration given to the victim is in favour of it. The bill is not alone. At the same time, a number of other initiatives have been launched which do not require amendment of the law and, according to the analysis in these more management-based initiatives, the great potential for reducing the processing time lies. The draft law must therefore be seen as part of a larger package, which, overall, must make up for the long processing times. But things haven't been done with it. We are still working on how to ensure the victims a good and fast way through the system as quickly as possible. With those comments, I would like to thank you for your speeches and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144733	We thank the Minister for Justice. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144756	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144808	Thank you for that, President. As the President has rightly said, it is a matter of amending the law on the administration of justice, it is a matter of judgments in default in which expulsion has been sought, and it is also a matter of using telecommunications in court hearings. This proposal is also about processing times, just like the proposal we have just been through this time before the courts, and there is no doubt that something needs to be done about that. This also applies, of course, to the victims here, following on from what we also discussed earlier. The proposal has two main elements of content. Firstly, it provides a better opportunity for telecommunications in the courtroom and in court proceedings, so that the possibilities available to the defender are equated with the opportunities available to the prosecutor in the future when it comes to using videoconferencing, for example. Secondly, it is made possible if, for example, one is a travelling criminal and cannot find out that when one is summoned to appear before a Danish court, one can get a expulsion judgment by what is called a judgment in default. It supports the Social Democratic Party; it is a very good proposal which, I hope, can also help to make justice more effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144926	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326144935	Thank you for that, President. Today, criminal foreigners cannot be sentenced to expulsion without being present in court. Try to think: If you had such a judgment hanging over your head, and you could actually just drive home to the country you are now coming from, who the hell would stay in Denmark and wait for your trial? That means that criminals from other countries will not get their verdict. Then the police must try to find the person who may or may not be in Denmark, and in the courtroom judges and lawyers are sitting ready for no good in the world. All that and all the expenses, and then there can be no judgment, it goes without saying that it is completely untenable. Fortunately, this is being changed now with L 174, where it will then also be possible to carry out legal proceedings using video in many more cases than it is today. We are happy about this in the Danish People's Party, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145045	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145052	Thank you. Today it is the case that it is a requirement for the conduct of criminal proceedings, claiming expulsion, that the foreigner concerned is present in court, otherwise the case cannot be carried out with an application for expulsion. This means, as Mrs Karina Due also said, that many foreigners can take the matter on board, and not least that it is a huge waste of resources, judges, secretaries, judges, defenders, prosecutors, perhaps even witnesses sitting in vain and waiting, and then you can come back another day. The purpose of this proposal is, as one part, to extend the possibility of carrying out criminal proceedings claiming expulsion so that they can be carried out in situations where the defendant has the prospect of a sentence of up to 6 months in prison or 1 year if he has consented to a judgment in default. This is an excellent proposal which we in the Left can only support. The second part of the proposal concerns the possibility of videoconferencing. We already have it today, so that the defender can meet by video, but with this proposal the prosecutor can also meet by video, and this also applies to the intervention lawyer who is going to be involved in situations where telephone intercepts and the like have to be made. That too is an excellent way. In this connection, I would also like to stress that it is the judge who has the decision and, if he is concerned that the prosecutor also meets on video and therefore not as usual present and promotes the case in court, then the judge can of course decide otherwise, namely that the prosecutor should be present. However, as the proposal stands, the Left can fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145245	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145248	It is simply out of curiosity, in relation to whether the rapporteur of the Left can at all consider that in the extremes of theory there can be a problem of legal certainty in judging people who are not present?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145310	Yes, I should be a villain if I said no to that question; of course, in the extreme, there may be a risk to it, Mr. Søren Søndergaard is absolutely right. This is the case with all the rules: we can all find examples where they should not have been applied. As an absolute rule, however, I see no problem in this and, as far as I know, there is also the possibility of appealing against this type of case to the Court of Justice. Finally, I would like to say that the judge examines all the case files in any case, and I think he is trying to balance that risk, and if he thinks there seems to be a hint of a risk, he will probably give a ruling that he should be made anyway. But I have to give Mr. Søren Søndergaard right: Theoretically, there may be examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145405	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145406	Yes, because I suppose there is some reason why we have had the rule that people cannot be judged without them being present. I guess it's not just because all our predecessors have been huge idiots, it's probably because they've had a reason to think it was important for the sake of legal certainty. When I ask, of course, it is also in order to clarify whether this is a general procedure that we are opening up to, because then it can be done very quickly if the person to be judged does not have to be present in the courtroom in the future. Then we can really get the machine going and really get people convicted in all areas and not just in expulsion cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145446	Yeah, that's right. That principle, sir. Søren Søndergaard referred to applies to civil cases, so if you do not show up, you will be convicted, but that is right in relation to criminal proceedings. No, I do not consider this to be a slippery slope, and I would just like to say that, although it may be harsh enough, it is only in cases where you can be sentenced up to six months in prison. However, I would stress once again that the judge has the final decision and I do not see the necessary risk to put his heels on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145513	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145524	After all, the proposal before us has two main elements: increased use of video transmission in court hearings so that the parties do not have to be present in the same room and increased access to pass judgment in expulsion proceedings. Attendance in a hearing via a video link, as the Court of Justice points out in its hearing answer, is not the same as being physically present in the courtroom. Both hearings conducted through a video connection and increased access to judgments in default therefore risk weakening legal certainty. It is obvious that there are and may be problems with the effectiveness of the judicial system, especially if legal certainty is to be respected. There is no doubt that legal certainty is something slow that slows things down and prevents it from happening very quickly. The question is, of course, whether we are prepared to pay that price in the form of less legal certainty in order to increase efficiency. In the Enhedslisten, we have addressed the concerns about the increased use of video transmission, which in the hearings comes mainly from the courts and the judges, and the concerns about the absence of judgments, particularly from lawyers and the Court of Justice. We are therefore going into committee work with a certain amount of scepticism, and we will look carefully into and consider in the committee's work whether the risk of restricting legal certainty is a price that is worth paying for the system to be made more efficient. We will not say in advance that there are no situations where this might be so, but we will not just say in advance that it should be so. It's just a trade-off. Then, in a written question to the Minister, we will ask for a number of figures on the number of hearings in expulsion cases where the proceedings have had to be postponed because the defendant has not appeared unless, of course, the Minister is sitting there and has them on the table there, because then we can get them right away. Otherwise, however, we will put the question in writing in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145813	I think that was a nice nuanced approach by Enhedslisten, and it is thus nuances that I can easily follow. What, however, is at the heart of this case for me and for the Liberal Alliance is that it is not okay that you can train an expulsion case just by failing to attend hearings. And it is not at all okay for the victims of the acts of foreign criminals that there will be no consequences for their perpetrator, because you cannot judge in an exile case if the perpetrator simply does not show up at the hearing. So basically, this is about, on the one hand, ensuring confidence in the judicial system, and, on the other hand, on the other hand, in particular, about justice for the victims of criminal acts. That seems to me to be two legitimate objectives which, overall, allow the Liberal Alliance to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326145926	There are two essential elements in the draft law. One is very sceptical about in the alternative, and the other is more accommodating. There it is in relation to the use of video. Video is such a bit of an age-old expression now, so there are all kinds of forms. And now you shouldn't get nervous when I start mentioning virtual reality and putting on glasses and then sitting in a completely different place and actually being in dialogue with each other, where you can feel each other in space, but that's actually what's happening right now. There will be so great opportunities to have a dialogue with each other and have a spaciousness and authenticity in that video room, so we are not going to look in a direction where we can at least ensure that such a solution will be in order. We are just not quite sure that it is, precisely because of the consultation answers that Enhedslisten's rapporteur also put forward. So let's see if that's fair and reasonable. Some answers have already been received from the Ministry on this, so let's see if this is a proper solution. However, I would say from the point of view of the alternative that we are in favour of finding a solution in this area forward-looking, because what can be delivered in this area today is unsatisfactory in relation to what the judges think is right. And it may well be that it can be resolved in the future. So there we are relatively positive. In relation to the second, with the absence of a judgment and the absence of a judgment, we must first acknowledge that it is totally unacceptable that one should not appear. Well, we cannot live with that, and therefore we can understand that we want to do something about it. On the other hand, it is a violent move, we think in the alternative, that we must accept that a judgment is handed down without the person being present. So what do we do there? That is precisely where I think it is relevant to the question of how many it is actually about. Is it a lot of cases that make us have to change it for everyone? It's kind of the reverse of what I said before. So, does it happen once or twice that some abuse the system? We'll have to look into that. But we are at least critical of that element.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150139	Thank you. The starting point for us in the Radical Left is that criminal foreigners should be expelled and that we should use the technology that has now been developed to make things smarter. At the same time, however, I am also thinking of some of the same things as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned. There are some concerns about this bill. Firstly, there is the very concern about the legal certainty of not being present, and secondly, there is both the technical and safety aspects that may be involved in using video, but also the soundness of whether it is the right method to use. And I really think that the Ministry of Justice has made every effort to respond to the answers to the hearings; we also heard in a reply from the rapporteur of the Left here today that a great deal is being done to maintain that it is, of course, a decision of the courts, whether or not it is reasonable to do so. This is certainly very important for us in the Radical Left. So maybe you can convince us that we're gonna be part of this bill. In any case, we will go into committee with an open mind and ask some questions and then see if we cannot be comfortable enough to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150304	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150312	It is clearly provocative when the defendants do not appear before their trial. I am thinking of the years I myself was a judge, where it could be incredibly provocative when the whole choir was ready, and we only lacked the defendant. Then it had to go over again, and then you had to see if you could get the people back together again. There are also some defendants who rent games to postpone a verdict, says Mikael Sjöberg, President of the Court of Justice. So it could be tempting to make a short process in such situations. However, when SF cannot support the bill, it is due to a number of objections from associations and persons associated with the legal system. After all, the lawyer's council notes that the assessment of the expulsion question may often depend on information held by only the defendant, for example. relating to links with residents, possible travel to the home Member State, language skills and contacts with family members of the home Member State. We can also read that the National Association of Defence Attorneys writes that the bill does not relate to a lack of assessment of the alien's personal circumstances. We can also see here that the National Association of Defence Attorneys again writes that they are wondering that, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, the bill is not linked to legal uncertainty. I have to say that I think that the Association for Legal Affairs has several good objections. They state that judgments given in default are, on the basis of the principle of a fair trial and that their application must therefore be of the nature of the exception and must be well founded. And some of the last thing they write in the hearing answer of the Legal Affairs Association is about what the extent of this is. They state that the proposed extension of the right to apply judgments in default is based on an unsubstantiated claim that a great deal of resources are being wasted by the fact that hearings must be cancelled and postponed because a defendant who is alleged to be expelled does not appear. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights recommends that before the draft law, or at least during the parliamentary procedure, figures should be given on how often such hearings are cancelled and on the costs which could be saved by the proposed system. Those things need to be weighed against each other, and in SF's accounts that leads to us not being able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150543	There is fairly broad political agreement that criminal foreigners should be expelled. This government has implemented a number of restrictions which have increased the number of expulsions, and that is very positive. Some of the challenge is also about having these cases dealt with more effectively. Right now, a case must be postponed if the defendant does not appear in person in the event of an application for expulsion. This means that some can try to delay matters consciously and that the absence rate is high. It's bad for the sense of justice when criminals speculate not to show up. Therefore, with this bill, we will make it easier for the courts to decide without the defendant being present. We propose that it be made easier to use modern video communications technology. Thus the judgment can be pronounced at a distance. But we are also simply suggesting that it be possible to pass judgment even if the defendant has not been completely removed from the trial. It is simply not fair that our courts should use so many unnecessary resources to run cases and court hearings where the defendant does not appear. We're not gonna put up with that. That is why we are changing the framework. We in Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326150718	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs for the predominantly positive reception of the bill, which is, of course, intended to ensure that criminal proceedings pass quickly through the justice system in the interests of the victims and to ensure the confidence of citizens in the judicial system. The draft law proposes that foreigners who commit crime should be able to be expelled by judgment even if they have not stayed from the hearing. In addition, the bill contains amendments to enable hearings to be held by means of videos in more situations than at present. The background to the part of the draft law on expulsion proceedings is that criminal foreigners can today delay criminal proceedings by failing to attend the hearing. That is because criminal proceedings in respect of which expulsion is sought cannot be carried out without the defendant being present in court. The criminal proceedings must therefore be suspended if the accused does not appear before the court, thereby avoiding the punishment and expulsion with the corresponding entry ban which he or she has the prospect of being sentenced to. It is offensive to the sense of justice that criminal foreigners can thus put stones in the way of justice. The effectiveness of the criminal proceedings chain is strained by the fact that the judge, the prosecutor and the defender have to appear in court again and again to find that the defendant has not appeared. It's a waste of their time, and it's a waste of our tax dollars. It is a general problem, especially with travelling criminals, who are often only here for a short time and disappear before their case is dealt with in court. That is why the draft law proposes to enable criminal proceedings to be brought even in cases of expulsion, even if the defendant is not present. This means that the courts will be able to rule on expulsion even if the person to be expelled has not appeared unless the court considers that the presence of the person concerned is necessary. The amendment applies to all cases where, in addition to expulsion, foreigners are subject to a maximum sentence of six months in prison. The amendment also applies to cases where the prosecution has demanded a maximum sentence of one year in prison and expulsion and where the alien has agreed that the case may be brought without his or her presence. The bill does not change when foreigners convicted of criminal offences may be expelled. Nor does the bill change the fact that the courts, when deciding on expulsion, must ensure that expulsion is not contrary to Denmark's international obligations, for example. European Commission on Human Rights. The second part of the bill makes it possible to carry out hearings using video in more situations than today. Technological developments have given new opportunities to communicate digitally. Videoconferences today usually have such quality that in many respects they are experienced as being equal to physical meetings. We must make use of this in our legal system. We can save a lot of resources by holding hearings using video. The draft law therefore proposes to spread the possibility of using video court meetings. Specifically, the proposal implies that the conditions under which a prosecutor may attend video court meetings will be the same as those applicable to the defender. This means that a prosecutor may attend a hearing by video if the accused does not take part in the hearing and the court considers that it is justified. In addition, it is clarified that lawyers appointed in proceedings relating, inter alia, to: interference in the confidentiality of communications in the same way that a defender may attend court hearings via video, if the court considers it justified. Overall, the draft law is an important step towards a more effective judicial system in which criminal proceedings can be dealt with more quickly and where we use resources in a more efficient and appropriate way and where we ensure that criminal aliens cannot evade punishment and expulsion by leaving the courts. With these comments, I would like to thank you for the debate and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151109	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151112	Maybe two. I just want to ask the Justice Minister a question. Now the Minister for Justice also says that this is an important step, and that must mean that it is a great deal. Because if we are talking about criminals where there are more serious crimes than those we are talking about here, then they probably come with two cops, one on each side, and are being transported to trial. So it's people who've been out before. And if we take away those who have voluntarily promised that you can run the case without their presence, what are the figures we are talking about? Is it 1,000, or is it 2,000? It's more to get an impression of it. It's kind of hard when you don't really have any number material that can illustrate how big this problem really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151209	I do not have any concrete figures, but I have been informed by the Attorney General that this is a well-known and general issue which affects all the police circles in the country. In particular, it is a problem with the travelling criminals who come and empty our houses or what they do and who stay in Denmark for a short time. It is also important to say here that I find it illogical that we can judge people up to one year in prison in no-show cases, but as soon as we put the issue of expulsion on, we cannot do anything because they do not appear in court. I don't think that's connected. We can give them a judgment in default, but if you claim expulsion, then you cannot. I just think we should make that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151256	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151258	I can easily put myself in the position Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned, for I have also been a judge once sitting waiting for people who had participated in various things and things and who did not show up. So I can easily recognize that. I also recognise that this is something that involves a certain cost, but what is, after all, the reason for making this bill is precisely that it is a particular group, namely the particular group, which is called people who can be expelled but who have a penalty under a certain framework. And that's where I think we just need the number. The Minister does not have it here, but then we get it in committee on a written question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151348	Yeah. And I can say that whether the number is 1 or 500 or 100 is not decisive for me. I simply think that there is something in principle in this. It is crazy that we, as a community governed by the law, accept that we can simply make sure that we do not get a verdict by staying away.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151402	There is also a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151406	There are, of course, arguments for the bill, that is quite clear, but is it not a little cold, Minister of Justice, to come to a first reading without having any sense of what we are talking about? Well, there's a difference, I think there's one case a year, or if there's 1,000 or 10,000. And the Minister could have prepared himself because it is in the consultation answer from among others. The Association for Legal Affairs, which expressly calls for us to get a sense of how much we are talking about today at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151439	That's right. First of all, if I were to follow the Association of Legal Affairs, there could not be much civil justice policy in this country. Secondly, I would just like to say that I am listening when the Attorney General says that this is a general problem in all police circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151453	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151455	Yes, and it hasn't even occurred to the Minister for Justice when the Minister for Justice has heard that remark, just to ask how many this is about? Well, I think most people who get such information, namely that it's a practice you see out there, would do that. Has it not occurred at all to the Minister to ask the other way: I hear what you say: what is the size ratio? It may not have been the Minister's intention, but could it be the Minister's intention to do so now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151518	Now I understand that such a question will be there in a few moments. But basically, it doesn't matter to me how many cases it is. It is the principle that you can just stay away because you can get a deportment sentence that you can say: I don't want it, so I'll just stay away. I think that's crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151535	We thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151546	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151612	The legislative proposal that we are about to deal with now is based on a rather long process, and the result of the long process is that the government has had to throw the towel into the ring, as it has not succeeded in reaching agreement within the conciliation circle. As a result of Article 44 of the Public Procurement Act, the Minister of Justice is required to make legislative proposals on the revision of the Public Procurement Act, including the use of mandatory mailing lists, first through an experimental scheme initiated on 1 January 2015 by relevant actors, and later through the Ombudsman's evaluation of the scheme. After the audit has been postponed several times, the government has not progressed further. Due to the conciliation discussions, in which the Social Democratic Party also participated, the revision of the mailing list clause was postponed in both 2017 and 2018 and, as no agreement has been reached in the conciliation circle to amend the Public Procurement Act, the Minister for Justice has decided that there is currently no basis for making legislative proposals in this respect or to postpone it again. It is a pity that the conciliation circle has not succeeded in reaching agreement, but as long as the conciliation circle does not agree on the right model, the Social Democratic Party supports the government in abolishing the revision of the postal list provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151719	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151724	L 176 is about abolishing the obligation to revise the so-called postal list clause in the Public Procurement Act. But now the conciliation parties have not been able to find a compromise, that is to say a new postal list clause, which means that it does not exist, and then it does not make much sense to have a duty to revise it, that is, when it no longer exists. This is a bit like making rules about free-lived rhino in Denmark. It just doesn't make any sense. That is why, of course, we support the fact that it should be repealed. But having said that, I simply do not understand why a final mailing list system has not been found • how difficult can it be? In other words, there is an expert group that has evaluated the trial scheme in 2017 and has offered up to several bids for a mailing list scheme. And yet no solution has been found. I simply do not understand what it is that you are so afraid of and what it is that must stand in the way of it. In the Danish People's Party we are advocates of openness, and we would very much have liked the conciliation parties to have found a compromise. It hasn't happened, and it's just sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151841	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326151859	Well, sir. President, I do not represent the Left I represent the Left. I think that should be emphasized. After all, I think that the process since the adoption of the excessively restrictive Public Procurement Act in 2013 is taking on the character of a farce. Three parties that helped to reach a settlement on the law in October 2012 have since changed their minds and appointed themselves as a transparency troika. That's good. The three parties, among other things: includes the party chaired by the Minister of Justice that they wish to make decisive changes to, inter alia: the so-called ministerial service rule, which is one of the provisions that makes the Public Service Act much more restrictive than the law in force until 1 January 2014. In other words, if we are to take the parties' reports at face value, there is an overwhelming majority in the Folketing in favour of a relaxation of the law on public access to documents. In fact, as far as I can see, only the Social Democrats and the Left are firmly committed to safeguarding the secrecy and the power that the law has created. Today, we shall then have to decide whether we will completely abolish the revision clause which the Danish Parliament has twice amended and extended. The revision clause concerns a very small corner of the general public law, namely the so-called mailing lists. And even though it could easily be decided to make compulsory mailing lists a permanent arrangement completely independent of the great relaxation of the Public Service Act, for which there is a majority, the Minister of Justice is now proposing that the revision clause be completely abolished. This is done on the grounds of disagreement within the conciliation circle. We find it difficult to see the justification for lifting the revision clause in isolation. It is high time that such a rule was introduced, and Parliament can do so here and now. And then we look forward to having a broad and solid majority in the Danish Parliament at the latest on 17 June, or perhaps at the very latest on 18 June, bypassing the clout parties, the Social Democratic Party and the Left, and that this majority will be freer than today, so that we would be happy to avoid a future government, including a government for which the Enhedslisten is a parliamentary basis, finally to adopt the necessary relaxations in the Public Service Act. Because it is indeed necessary to ensure that the public is given a real opportunity to control ministries and authorities and to know what is really going on in public administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152205	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152211	Here you are in a debate where, as in substance as a representative of the Liberal Alliance, you agree with both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten about something that doesn't happen every day anyway. We have debated the Public Service Act a great deal during this parliamentary term, and for good reason, since the majority of the previous parliamentary term reduced public administration transparency to something which, at least on the basis of the Liberal Alliance, is far too small, there has been a political desire, and it has, as the previous rapporteur also said, increased transparency again. And that is exactly what we have been discussing, both here in Parliament on various occasions and actually also very much in the columns of the newspapers. In the Liberal Alliance we might well have thought of that, I do not think anyone is in any doubt that those discussions would lead to a new agreement on substantial concessions in the Public Service Act, in particular the paragraph which deals with ministerial service. But it went the way it did. We regret that; that is a pity. However, this also means, of course, that the changes in the public law that we have fought for since the restriction of transparency in the previous parliamentary term, we will continue to fight for in the next parliamentary term. There I hope that everyone, both new critics and old critics and the transparency troika, and what else you have, will be in a hood when we have to tackle it after the next elections. I will certainly look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152353	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152402	I note that it is primarily the government-leading parties that have at least been somewhat hesitant from the outside in terms of relaxing this public law, which there is actually quite a consensus that perhaps we should look at and create the openness that we almost all seem to agree that we should have more of. That is why, in the alternative, we have a great responsibility on our shoulders when, hopefully, after the next elections, we are leading the government. That is where we have to see if it becomes a reality. But that is one of the points on which I would like to be one of those who continued after the next elections. Now that is not the case for me. But can we stand at the mark of all our strong visions and values in a party as the alternative when we come in and have to work in power? And I'm aware that it's not a hundred percent certain that we'll be the leaders of the next election. But I think it is striking that we have debates about confidence in democracy, lack of confidence, political joy or politicians, and then we can talk about such a fundamental element as this for so long. Well, we want more openness. But when one sits and has the opportunity to actually do something about it because there is not much action on this point; I think it was Enhedslisten's rapporteur who said that we could almost do it now and here; and this mailing list system does not necessarily belong entirely with the whole public law; one might well go in and choose an element and do something about just that. I mean, I just can't see the good arguments against it unless it is because it's simply incredibly difficult to lead the country if we relax this public law. And it may well be I don't know for good reasons. It just does not look reasonable from the outside, but if that is the case, I think we should have a nuanced debate about why it is that it is almost impossible to be a minister or responsible head of the country if you are looked at even more over your shoulder than you do today. 'Cause I can actually understand that may be really messed up. And sometimes it may also be absolutely necessary for there to be a room where you cannot keep up with outsiders when decisions are made on the security of the country and one and the other. But I think we should have a much more open and much more honest discussion. For it may well be that some of us are standing and looking into the power rooms from outside, simply learning a lesson and understanding what it really is like to sit there. And then we can become more nuanced and be a little more understanding that there is something about this public law that we cannot relax. But I'm not convinced of that yet. So let us have that debate and let us not delay what we can do about it. This element of the Public Service Act, which was probably not even really part of it from 2012, if I read the hearings correctly, we could do something about it now. So in the committee procedure we will at least argue strongly that we should then look at whether we can do anything about it and get an assurance from the Minister that this is actually what we intend to do. We are incomprehensible that we should move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152704	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152712	We need to get the blackout curtains up in this country, which is why I do not have much good to say about the government's work to create more publicity. It has been postponed over and over again, and we are very dissatisfied with that in the Radical Left. After all, the mailing lists are only a small part of the whole public law, which is why we are going to vote against it now. I don't think it's right that you can't even deliver in relation to the mailing lists. But I would also like to say that the important thing, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said, will be that we will have a new government so that, after this election, we will be able to bring together the many forces that are in the Folketing for more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152758	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152800	I could not help reacting to some of what the rapporteur said, namely that we are very unhappy with the efforts of this government to achieve more openness, but that at the same time we are putting our hopes in a new majority and a new government. As far as I know, the government and the majority that the Radical Left is dreaming of following elections is precisely the government which introduced the cover-up that the Radical Left is now harcelating over. That is not really logical, so my question is this: should the majority of the Radical Left dream of introducing more secrecy into the public administration last time, then the Radical Left will make it a cardinal point in the negotiations on the formation of a new government, for example, to abolish. the ministerial service rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152849	It is clear that one of the things that is high on the radical list is that with a new government we also want more publicity and, as Mrs Christina Egelund has said, we are fighting with the Socialists on this point. We do not agree, and that is why I only hope that Mrs Christina Egelund and the Liberal Alliance, together with the Radical Left, will be part of the vast majority after the next elections, which will push through the changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152914	Mrs. Christina Egelund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152916	Of course the Liberal Alliance will join us. We've wanted to be there the whole time. We also fought against it when the Radical Left sat in the government that pulled the cover-up curtains for Slotsholmen, so we will gladly help to subtract them. I would just like to sign for it if the rapporteur really means what they say seriously, namely that it is a cardinal point for the Radical Left, and should you join a new government that has other wishes in this area than the Radical Left, we will look at it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152943	The rapporteur? No, sir. Søren Søndergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326152949	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that I am extremely pleased that the Radical Left has changed its position on this issue. That is what politics and political discussion are all about, and it is very good that we have radicals in the transparency camp. However, in relation to making it a cardinal issue under a future government, I would say that we do not need to do so. We can just go through with it. If we have a majority, we can just go through with it. So it is more a question of whether one will be bound to vote against one's own beliefs in order to get some other things, or whether one simply wants to implement what is majority in favour. That is my question to the radical rapporteur: is it not a commitment that, after a forthcoming parliamentary elections, the Radicals will vote according to their convictions, regardless of what they believe, and that is not a matter of any cardinal point, and thus, together with the other majority in the Folketing, ensure that there is a little more openness in things?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153059	It is true that if we are now to turn it around and look at what is, like, the good that has come out of this situation, which is now that the government has not delivered anything, it is, of course, that we are where we say that after the next elections we must gather all of us who have the majority to change the public law. So, yes, we can just do that. However, what we do not yet know is how the mandates fall after the elections. I hope, then, that the Radical Left will join the government. It would be very good for Denmark if we did this, but it depends on whether we can agree with the Socialists on a future government basis. We'll see about that. It depends on how the mandates fall, and it is the Danes who decide how many of us they want to send in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153136	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153138	I get nervous when the radical rapporteur starts to mix the formation of government into it, because then it is just as likely that the view of the Radicals will be abandoned in order to be allowed to be in government. What I need is a clear response from the Radicals that, in this area, you will vote for your post-election policy no matter what. Then you can go into all the governments you want and you can do everything you want, but you just want to vote for your policy on this point. Then it is clear that the result of the elections depends, of course, on whether it gives a majority. Much seems to be doing so, which is why we need a clear message from the Radical Left that this is not being sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153217	This is very important for the Radical Left, but unlike the Enhedslisten, which, as it were, does not have much experience in negotiating government bases, what you go in and look at is whether you can stand up for it all together. There is what I am saying: the Public Service Act is very important for the Radical Left, but it is also very important for the Radical Left that we have more educators in our day institutions, that we have a better primary school, that we stop savings in education and that we have a green transition with more electric cars and with the set-aside of agricultural land. After all, it is the overall package that will decide whether or not we are in it. So yes, the Public Service Act will be a very important part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153258	Then we thank Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153303	Democracy requires transparency, openness and trust, so let us now turn off the darklight, which still casts shadows away and in this context the question of mailing lists is, after all, just a small possible beam of light. Some of the most central players in this debate are Danish Media and Danish Journalists' Federations, and in their hearing answer they write that they have found with great regret and amazement that the purpose of the draft is to repeal the revision clause in section 44 of the Public Service Act, so that there is no longer a requirement for a revision of Section 16 of the Act, which deals with the possibility of introducing mailing lists. They say, however, that the most critical aspect of the draft law is that it is a clear violation of the intention, with an explicit and separate review period, to ensure a rapid assessment of the mailing list experiment and a position on the future mailing list system. They also write that the consequence of the Ministry's draft bill is, however, much more intrusive than predicted. Then they write that the proposal removes the commitment of the government to whether and to what extent a mandatory mailing list system should be implemented at all. There remains an inactive provision which, despite good intentions to create a long-awaited increase in openness in public administration, now appears to be a worthy intention that has long-standing intentions if any prospects to be fulfilled. The SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153433	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153440	In the Public Procurement Act there is a revision clause requiring the Folketing to rule on section 16, the postal list clause in the Public Procurement Act. The postal list provision concerns the possibility of administratively requiring authorities to keep public mailing lists on their websites, for example. The bill simply repeals the revision clause. In other words, we are not taking a position now that we are landing with the mailing list provision. It won't be touched. It is no secret that it has been difficult to find a compromise between the conciliation parties on the Public Service Act. We hope that, after an election, we can get the ends to meet in the conciliation circle, but until then there is no basis for amending the existing provision. We in Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153536	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153543	I have not been involved in all the long negotiations that have taken place, and that may be an advantage, because then we will have to concentrate on what the proposal is about. The aim is to remove a revision clause, and that is why it has now been postponed twice. The first time was in 2017 and the second time in 2018. Then should we have a 2019 and just postpone it one more time? No, now the Minister of Justice is making a sensible suggestion that it be removed. But that does not prevent us from being able to speak on at any time and perhaps at any time also on this point to agree on a change to the law. That is why I think it is very sensible to remove the revision clause. I also understand that there is a majority in this House who wants this and that majority includes Mrs Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153656	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153659	Thank you and thank you for your speech. But I simply do not understand the logic. It has been said that here is something so important that we put in place a review clause. It's not every day you do it, you can say. Terrorist legislation and all sorts of things have been adopted without any revision provisions. But here you then insert a revision clause and say that we will have to look at that again. Then you try twice to look at it, but you can't come up with anything because you can't agree, and the logic is that then we remove the revision clause. Is that logic? Or is it just an attempt to circumvent what was agreed and promised to the electorate when the law was passed, namely that one would look at it after a certain period of time to carry out a review?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153747	The logic is that you do not need a revision clause to sit down in the conciliation circle and discuss any changes. There is also no need for a revision clause in order to implement those changes. That is why the revision clause only has the effect of forcing, so to speak, an extra round. Now there have been two rounds, and this is the third round, and the Minister of Justice seems reasonable and that makes a majority in Parliament that we should now wait to take another round until there is a chance that we can agree on something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153827	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153829	I think, sir. Bertel Haarder puts it quite precisely. So, the only purpose of this revision provision is to keep the focus on the issue, and the only purpose of removing it is to remove focus from the issue. That is absolutely right. But that is where I am asking about the position of the Left. So the Left does not think that attention should be paid to the issue? And then, on the third occasion, we are approaching 17 June. Then there's a new Parliament. Was it not very reasonable to have a new Parliament test whether they had better ability to meet the wishes of the revision clause than the current government had?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153909	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153912	But there is nothing to prevent a new Parliament from discussing the matter and agreeing on a change. The revision clause does not, of course, have an independent meaning as regards the possibility for the Folketing to make changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153929	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326153937	Thank you for the debate and thank you for your support for the bill. After all, we have discussed public law many times now, but today it is a question of abolishing the obligation to revise the so-called postal list provision in the Public Service Act. It is therefore the provision that administrative rules can be laid down for authorities to publish lists of incoming and outgoing mail on the Authority's website on a regular basis. In this respect, as you know, an experiment has been carried out in the past with four selected authorities with open mailing lists. The pilot scheme was evaluated in July 2017 by a committee of experts. The Committee outlined various models for a possible mailing list system, but stressed that the elections would ultimately have to be political. That is why the revision of the provision on mailing lists has also been postponed for the last two years, with the view that the consideration of mailing lists could just be part of the conciliation discussions on the Public Procurement Act. In those discussions, the government has worked for an overall compromise. However, as you know, the negotiations on the Public Service Act are stranded without a new agreement. In view of this, I do not see that there are grounds for continuing the scheme at this stage, and it is therefore proposed that the review clause in the Public Procurement Act be repealed. Then, after the elections, we will have to look at how we can find each other in relation to the public law. In relation to this draft law, there is enough reason to stress that there is no change in the right to introduce open mailing lists administratively. There will still be room for that. By repealing the revision clause, there is just no longer any requirement to revise the postal list provision. If later, for example. A compulsory mailing list system is therefore still an open political issue which can be addressed after a parliamentary election, as is the case with the Public Service Act. I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may be raised in the course of the committee's work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154149	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154152	Thank you for your review. I think that the Minister could perhaps just try to give a perspective on what makes it impossible to reach an agreement in the circle at such an overall level? Because, as has also been said, it is such a pseudo-debate that we have on the specifics here. So if it is appropriate from the platform here, it could be very interesting to hear where it is there are some facets today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154216	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154218	Thank you. That's not appropriate. Of course, it is appropriate to ask, but it would not be appropriate to answer. Because when we sit in a negotiating room in a conciliation circle in trust of each other and discuss various very concrete models for where, if we were to agree, we should move, regardless that someone has thought that it has been really important to leak most of it to the media there you can just see that I still think it must be so that it is not appropriate for me to stand up here and say that it was so and it was so. I note that there will soon be parliamentary elections, and I wonder if this subject will come up, if not during the elections, then at least afterwards. I have a strong feeling about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154257	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154300	That is quite right and right. I am thinking: could the Minister give his own opinion on, for example, compulsory mailing lists and that they were open?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154312	No, the minister can't. For the Minister speaks on behalf of the government, and the government's position is that we have a comprehensive process of negotiation on the Public Service Act, and when we could not achieve that goal, we do not start to take out any single elements either. That is why I say, as the previous speaker also said, that this does not prevent anyone from discussing it, and I can hear that happening. Regardless of how the Folketing is now composed, we will sit down and discuss this further after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154336	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154349	We're gonna take a deep breath, because we're gonna have to change our seats so you can get up and side up here in the front row, and that's what the minister really is. As we do with questions, the Minister and the rapporteurs are standing in the front row up here. Then I think we have an overview of it and then the debate is open. As the Social Democrat rapporteur is busy chairing the meeting and therefore becomes the last man on the list of speakers, we go directly to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jan Erik Messmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154453	Thank you, sir. President. As rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign the excellent report on Nordic co-operation. Yes, we are in a good position, and from the work of the Nordic Council I feel that there is an understanding throughout the Nordic Region that increased cooperation is the way forward. There are so many things that bind us together in the Nordic countries: the fairly common language, culture, management traditions and simply the way we do things. The Danish People's Party in the Nordic Council is represented in the Nordic Freedom Party, which, in addition to our party, consists of the Swedish Democrats from Sweden and the Sandfins from Finland. These are three parties which are very similar in many respects, including in relation to Nordic co-operation, which we all give very high priority to. At a time when the European Union is very much in the debate, it is worth recalling the value of our cooperation in the Nordic region and the points where we have achieved a great deal there. We find it extremely positive that the government is committed to the Nordic region being the most integrated region in the world. It is a process which must bring us closer to this goal and which must make it easier for the citizens of the Nordic countries to settle and work across borders between our countries. Similarly, we recognise the great amount of work that has already been done in the field of border barriers and which provides for increased mobility. It is mobility that helps to underpin a common Nordic identity; it requires a good and enhanced infrastructure. In the environmental field too, we are well on our way in Nordic co-operation. In the Committee for a Sustainable Nordic Region, we have come a long way with various measures such as the reduction of plastic waste and recycling and durability and sustainable development, so that our countries will also be the world's best for future generations. Here, too, there is a common understanding that each Nordic country cannot stand alone. Finally, I would like to mention the cultural sector as one of the most important aspects, and here there are two dimensions: the Nordic region as an exporter of culture to the whole world on the one hand and our mutual cultural exports to the countries of the North on the other. Nordic crime series have become a concept all over the world, talking about the special Nordic noir genre, and we also love to see each other's productions, which fortunately are also on streaming services such as Netflix and the Nordic public service stations. A major step would be to abolish geoblocking within the Nordic countries, so that we can follow the television programmes on the Internet with each other unhindered. But here is one of the examples where the task of lifting the area unfortunately takes place under the auspices of the European Union, and this helps to curb the political ambitions we may have. When I speak the Nordic Region and the Nordic Council, I must again mention the Nordic Freedom Group. Here we have found common ground when it comes to defending our culture in the Nordic countries. We have brought forward cases such as common hallmarking • a subject we unfortunately did not have much success with • and we have wanted even better joint response cooperation in the Nordic countries. Already during the forest fires last year in Sweden it was a pleasure to note that Danish emergency workers were instrumental in helping with the large extinguishing work. We have also recently put forward proposals for a common authorisation system for osteopaths, which makes good sense in the Nordic region, where Sweden and Finland still lack authorisation systems. In general, health is one of the most important, and we have the same challenges in all the Nordic countries: an unfortunate cocktail of low birth rates and an ageing population. How do we create better conditions for families with children? How do we make it more attractive to have children together? This is an issue that we would very much like to address in the Danish People's Party and Nordic Freedom. The debate on health is also part of the forthcoming 5G network, which we have to take a position on: what uncertainties are there in this? Is it properly illuminated? Can it be dangerous for humans? This is something that I personally believe we have taken a little too lightly. Yes, we still have a lot to work for in Nordic co-operation, but it is also a work that pays off and which makes sense, including for future generations of Nordic citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154941	Thank you, sir. Jan Erik Messmann. This did not give rise to any brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326154955	Thank you to the Minister for Cooperation for a comprehensive and good statement. There is not a word I cannot endorse on behalf of the Left, and I would add that if words could only create what they mention, then with this statement we would have come a very long way in Nordic co-operation. I am afraid, however, that it will take a little hand sweat and a little patience and also a little stubbornness if everything is to be done, and these are the qualities that our Minister for Cooperation fully possesses, so I look forward with confidence to the continued efforts for Nordic co-operation. Of course, I miss something about defence, which has become the most important of all areas of cooperation, but it comes in a separate debate where I understand that it is the defence rapporteurs who take care of it. And I am actually delighted about that, because the defence rapporteurs must very much think Nordic in the future. That is what the Swedes want, and that is what the Finns want. Everything is in favour of intensified Nordic defence cooperation, also bearing in mind the security situation in the Baltic Sea and the Arctic. I am pleased that the statement highlights some of the cross-cutting aspects, and I also agree with what is stated on page 3, that perhaps there are too many strategies, priorities and cross-cutting considerations, and that fewer but clearer objectives are needed, which can then be strengthened. I think these are wise words. There is nothing superfluous, but there is something more important than other things, and that is what needs to be put behind it in particular. I have been thinking of changes in the budgetary procedure as long as I have been involved in Nordic co-operation and there is talk of the introduction of a multiannual budgetary framework, as well as of a rolling budgetary framework, so that decisions are taken every year that go far ahead. It is a very good idea, and we could also use it here in the Danish Parliament. The Left is very pleased with the cooperation ministers' action plan on mobility, which makes work structures more clear and sets priorities in the work. And then it says at the bottom of page 3: "The government will work actively for the implementation of the elements therein. This applies in particular to enhanced cooperation in the implementation of EU legislation, the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, as well as the recognition and cross-border use of electronic identities and digital services. The last one is the most important of all. After all, it is these cross-border barriers that cause too many problems. Whether you want to establish yourself, find a job or have a holiday home in another Nordic country, you encounter the problem of the electronic identity system and digital services. These are very important areas to address. I have recently had a meeting with Danske Torpare in Sweden, who has sent me a long list of what plagues a Dane who has a wasteland or a summer house in Sweden, and you get embarrassed when you read it and ask yourself: Have we not had Nordic cooperation in the last 50 years? Yes, we have, but we have not even solved the problem that it is difficult to get a mobile phone subscription, a bank account, a loan, etc. if you set up in another Nordic country. It is important that we use the complaints from Danske Torpare, i.e. Danish small housemen, in Sweden, as a crowbar for breaking down border barriers, just as the Bornholmn complaints have been useful crowbar for the Border Obstacle Council in which I have the pleasure of sitting. In the Council last year, we have removed 14 border barriers between large and small, and I thank the Minister for giving some examples of what we have removed from the obstacles. I just have to say that not all ministers are doing quite as much as they could in order to remove border barriers on their territory. I have said this in a nice way, and I hope that we will be able to give a little more impetus in the future. It is good that •Hello Norden • has become •Info Norden • and that •Info Norden • will help with questions about Nordic co-operation and support schemes beyond all questions about mobility and border barriers. This has to do with communication, because we have had to tell the truth in the Border Prevention Council that there are several things that we cannot do anything about, but then we can at least properly inform citizens about what the rules are and what to do if you want to work or live or study or set up a business in another Nordic country. The Nordic prime ministers have declared that we need to deploy the next generation mobile phone system, 5G, and that is to follow up on a Nordic-Baltic ministerial statement on the promotion of artificial intelligence. This is a very important matter and, accordingly, also the implementation of the cross-border use of electronic identities that I have just spoken about. In addition, there is EU implementation, which I know the Minister is very well informed and very concerned about. Then I would just like to mention all the reports we have received, where we have not got to the bottom of the implementation. I am thinking of the Stoltenberg report, where there are still points that we have not reached, and I am thinking of the Könberg report on health, where there are still points that we have not achieved. There was also Poul Nielson's report on the labour market and other reports, including: on health, where we have this Arjeplog agreement, which I never think we have made enough of. I simply do not understand why there is no freedom of movement for social and health assistants, especially since we in Denmark lack them. But there is so much work to be done on that. I would just like to end by thanking the Minister for the commitment she has shown and wish her every success in pushing a little to the ministerial colleagues so that they also do what they can to promote Nordic cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326155841	There is a brief comment. It's from sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326155845	Thank you. After all, this report states that Nordic co-operation must complement the development of EU cooperation. Is it not a strange attitude to have to say that here is the European Union, and then we should complement the European Union? It should be the other way round, in my opinion, that the EU should complement Nordic co-operation. I don't think it's just a question of words. I ask because the Nordic countries have different relations with the European Union. There are not two countries that have exactly the same relationship with the European Union. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Would it not be better for us to say that Nordic cooperation should be developed wherever it makes sense and where it is easy and straightforward to do so, regardless of whether the European Union has any rules, and then we should try to adapt the European Union to Nordic co-operation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326155938	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326155940	If I remember correctly, the report states that we need to increase Nordic cooperation within the framework of the European Union, which three and often five of the Nordic countries have joined, because Norway and Iceland are also closely associated with the European Union. But that does not mean that we have to wait for the European Union. We should never wait for the European Union. Because it's easier for five countries to agree than it is for 27. In addition, when the five countries agree with each other, there is a very great chance that the model on which they agree will end up valid throughout the European Union. So, sir. Christian Juhl must not take the view that we have to wait for the European Union. My principle is that we should never wait for the European Union. We have to take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326160042	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326160044	Well, I'm glad to hear that. For I think it is imbued with the fact that we must always take account of the European Union, and the European Union must be the starting point, and the European Union must be what we are dealing with, and then we will see how far we can go. I agree that we must, of course, do what is sensible in the Nordic countries. One final question is: what does the rapporteur of the Left think we have now had to save 9%. in the budget in the Nordic countries, but in the European Union we just keep turning it up all the time? Each time the European Union asks for more money and money is screwed up, we send the money there, whereas in Nordic co-operation for three years we have now had to save 9%. on the operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326160123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326160125	On the first point, I would just like to say that I think it is justified that the Nordic countries should respect the agreements and common legislation that they have agreed to in the European Union. That is what the statement says, and I would also recommend compliance with the common rules, but within them, and in respect of them, goes ahead with a Nordic model which then has a good chance of becoming a European model. As far as the savings are concerned, I cannot disclaim responsibility for the fact that in my time as Minister for Nordic Affairs there was also a Danish desire for savings. This cost us dearly, because the other countries used it to say no to various Danish wishes. But that's the way it is. Fortunately, there has been no further demand for savings, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326160225	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326160236	Thank you. Nordic co-operation is important, and Nordic co-operation lives far too quiet a life among ordinary people in the Nordic countries. I believe that this brings much more added value to citizens and countries than other international organisations, including the European Union and NATO. It is from free movement to environmental action to cooperation on cheaper medicines for media cooperation and, hopefully, also a very, very strong climate cooperation, although it is not very clear here. It is just mentioned on the penultimate and last page with a few sentences. I think that is too defensive, given the importance of climate action. We in the Nordic countries should take the lead and really be lighthouses for the rest of the world because we have the ability to do it, we have the technology for it and we have the experience of sustainability and climate action. That is why we should jointly make an offensive which can also benefit the industry that is going to be involved in developing the part of what is called technology. And we in the Nordic countries have the people who will each make a huge effort to live a sustainable life and take their own initiative where they are now. We also have some companies that have both shown it and in the future can show it. That is why it is too defensive, I would say to the Minister, that there is no more emphasis on climate in the Nordic countries. We have to wait a long time before the European Union joins us, which is why it is important that we take the lead. Each country cannot do it itself, but we can at least do it together in the Nordic countries. The Nordic Council is the cooperation of parliamentarians, and that is of course the most important thing. It's something that goes without saying. Then we have the Nordic Council of Ministers, which makes a statement here. It is not entirely without importance that the Ministers come up with. However, I think it is important that ministers listen more to the Nordic Council. I think that there is a huge gap between the recommendations of the Nordic Council and what the ministers really decide. I would like to say: could you please listen a little more? We have had meetings in the Nordic Council, where the ministers suddenly went in the middle of a conversation with the members of the Nordic Council, because suddenly there was a press conference. That's when it was more important to go to the press than to talk to us. It's not nice to sit back with that feeling. We have in fact also discussed in the Nordic Council whether we should invite ministers or how the hell we should get them to take what we do seriously. This is therefore quite important in order to maintain confidence in what the ministers are doing. The Nordic Council is an important point of reference at a time of break-up in both the EU and NATO. The Minister also writes this in the statement, and I fully agree with that. For both the European Union and NATO have certainly not been in any major crisis than they are at present. That is also what the leaders of the two organisations are saying. That is why it is important that we build up all possible alternatives which can catch what falls and which need to be preserved. We are at a time when Nordic cooperation is becoming much, much more important than it has ever been, because the Nordic countries can play a much, much larger role if we want to and if we want to use the Nordic Region. The Left rapporteur said before that that that if we can go further in the North, we must do so. Yes, but that is precisely the problem with the European Union. They prevent us from going further in a wide range of areas if we want to do something better, especially if it can be called technical barriers to trade. And then it doesn't matter whether it's Sweden or Finland or Denmark that does it. Because then we will be told clearly: no longer than here! After all, the rapporteur himself has experienced this in the climate debate, where they also want petrol and diesel cars to be phased out. The phasing out of petrol and diesel vehicles before it suits the EU is a technical barrier to trade. Electric cars are prevented from entering the Danish market. I was not aware of this when we made our plan, because it also contains the same initiative. After all, it is quite crazy to say that, in the interests of the climate, we will only have electric cars in a few years' time and that the European Union can then say that this is a technical barrier to trade. It's totally crazy, though. We must stand together in the Nordic countries to say that, of course, we must go as far as we possibly can in the area of climate change. Then I would like to say that it is both easier and more democratic to work in the Nordic Council than it is in the European Union and NATO, and we must of course take advantage of that. It also seems that when people finally explain what they are doing in the Nordic Council, they are much more in favour of the way we work. In any case, it is my experience from discussions and lectures on Nordic cooperation that I have been around the country with. Then I will take some examples of where I think we could tighten up. As far as the media are concerned, I think we should have a clear Nordic streaming service carried out so that everyone can watch all Nordic films, and then Mr. Bertel Haarder can see Shame. He has now mentioned this five or six times to successive ministers, and I think we should soon live up to his wishes. And I actually think that the whole North would benefit from it. I believe that we can do better than rely on the multinationals, as we remain with the media policy that is gradually knocking on our door. You could call it Nordflex, and then we could have it within a framework where we could use each other's works. This, of course, requires that we agree that rights can be shared. There's another thing. I saw the other day how little tax Facebook pays all over Europe. It's in promos. They pay virtually no taxes, but they're bothering the entire advertising market with a few other social media. This means that the newspapers are gradually going to go downstairs and home because they have no ads. They're switching to social media that don't pay taxes. It's not a good business for society. There I think we could make a Nordic alternative to, for example. Facebook. That would easily be possible, and I also think that it could be done smarter and better than the Facebook that is today, plus that there is the whole debate about who is in charge of the electronic media. I think it is important that we take it up in the most democratic part of the world, namely the North. Then I'd like you to do something more out of tax, tax havens and money laundering. It is an international effort, but we can do a great deal, because we have, I would say now relatively good tax administrations in the Nordic countries. I also believe that we will have the Danish tax administration trimmed so that we can say that we have good tax administrations. But right now, there's a little trouble. It is important that we tax the big companies, because otherwise others will not pay taxes. Then we've been talking about something that's gone into oblivion. I was here last year in Berlin with the South Schleswig Committee and there we had some meetings, not the Danish Embassy, but the Scandinavian Embassy in Berlin. After all, we have talked about spreading that idea, and so far it has become a toast. I would like to hear from the Minister: when should we take more initiatives around the world so that we have joint embassies? Because it brings added value. It actually also provides an opportunity to be more visible a lot of places. One thing I have often talked about is peace and conflict resolution as an alternative to the crazy armament currently under way. There, through our universities and our researchers, we could try to build a capacity that is much, much greater than we can do individually, so that we can prevent conflicts, prevent climate refugees, prevent many of the causes that are in the world, that people have to flee and thus come into a very, very critical situation, where we will then also pay a very, very high bill. The same applies to development aid. I think there is far too little cooperation. There is a little bit of cooperation in some places, but far too little in relation to the tasks there are. I think we could make much more of the money, and from my point of view we could also spend some more money in such an important area. Then we have the Arctic. It has been mentioned, but I think that parts of the Arctic effort are about business and then, like some of the things, one forgets: the climate, the work for a nuclear-free Arctic, preferably in my opinion a demilitarisation of the Arctic, and then sustainable development, where consideration for those who live and work there is a priority. Last I would like to mention integration, cooperation on refugees, and that in my world view means no internal borders, even to Sweden. We must ensure that refugees and immigrants enter the labour market well. I think we have experience that we can contribute. It has gone well in some areas in Denmark, and we could be better there. But that requires that we have a government that is a tiny bit more open than who must be in the country. Then there's a section here. The written report seems to me to be very defensive. But I read a section on page 5. Now I'm going to try to read out: "A general dimension of the program is also digitization. Based on the cooperation programme, the Business Ministers have launched the work on the "Nordic Smart Government 3.0" on real-time business data for Business-to-Business and for Business-to-Government, as well as the "Smart Mobility and Connectivity" on the movement and/or connection of people, places (rural and urban areas), goods and services, assets, information and data. Excuse my English, but what does this paragraph mean? I just don't understand. Could we not say that if the Folketing is to have a statement, it must be a little more popular and accessible. Then it might be that there were three outside the Chamber who would read it. Another small thing I would have spent some time on is that you require fewer and clear targets, increased optimisation, streamlinedness. However, we do not mention in one word the results we think should be in such a paper. You just refer to it. Why do we not include the objectives we ourselves have in the statement? I'm disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161320	This is how one minute or two more were cheated, but the rapporteur must be spared that. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161327	Thank you for that, and thank you for a dedicated speech. Now the rapporteur sometimes tries to put it up as a contradiction between the European Union and Nordic co-operation, but when it comes to taxation of the large multinational companies such as Google, Facebook, etc., we surely need each other to such an extent. So I think we should be careful not to put it too clearly, as if we have our own interests. However, I should like to turn to another question. This is about what the rapporteur said: we in the Nordic countries should be more active in conflict resolution and conflict prevention. Now it is the case that there will be a seminar after the thematic session in a few weeks' time when conflict resolution will be on the agenda. What is the rapporteur's view of the proposal that the Nordic countries should all go out and engage in this field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161417	I'm really glad. It is CRIC that organises it, and we also receive a report from the Nordic Council on precisely conflict resolution, and it is at the request of the Central Group and from the Nordic Green Left. I think that is very good, because we have a capacity. Norway is making a great deal of progress and has helped to create a peace settlement between the FARC and the Colombian Government and has historically played an important role in periods in Palestine. In this way, we have a capacity that we do not use, because preventing a conflict may cost only 1%. of what it costs if there is a war. What if we'd been smarter in Iraq? What if we'd been smarter in Syria? What if we had used our great intellectual capacity to get in and influence things around with development aid and with wise heads who know what power conditions are in the countries, for example. down in Libya, where things went really wrong. Then we would save incredibly much money from which the poor countries and the poor people could benefit, instead of spending the money on war materials.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161525	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161542	Thank you for your statement. We believe very much in Nordic co-operation, but if we zoom in on the purpose of Nordic co-operation, all the way into the essence of it, then it is for us to see a matter of creating growth and prosperity across the Nordic region, and we must focus on that. It seems that in some fields you have lost some of this central focus. Too many small projects are given priority, without actually contributing significantly to what we believe is the purpose of Nordic co-operation, i.e. the desire for Nordic added value, so to speak. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister has worked to continue the reform trail in the Nordic Council of Ministers so that we can get back to what really adds value to the cooperation and reduce the high administrative costs that the organisation and Nordic co-operation also bring with them. The Crown Jewel in Nordic co-operation has always been the open borders between the Nordic countries, both when it comes to people and goods. This ensures growth and prosperity throughout the region, and although this jewel may have become a bit matt in recent years, it is no less precious. Maybe it's just time to take a little more care of it and polish it a little bit. In this context, I note that mobility is high on the government's agenda for Nordic co-operation, and I certainly think it should do so. It helps to create value for business, to trade with each other across borders, and to citizens who experience greater cohesion when they are able to travel, work, study and so on. in the Nordic neighbouring countries. I look forward to Denmark taking over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers next year and hope and expect that the focus will be on putting even more turbo on the reforms so that we can bring the cooperation back to the core, namely growth and prosperity. Finally, I would like to mention a small plus and a small minus. Plusset is the attention given to the branding value of being Nordic. Christian Juhl has just mentioned this. We can play a great many roles under the aegis of being Nordic, and we must capitalise on that, if you can put it that way, on all sides. This is the question of where the defence went, and now I came into the debate a little late, but I understand that this gives rise to an extraordinary debate. For it is a pity that if we have finally become concrete about sharing radar images and flying into each other's areas in a split second, then we do not get that mentioned here. Now I am also a defence rapporteur, so I will look forward to that debate being fleshed out. So in those words, I would like to thank the government for its statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161908	I was a little shocked by the relatively brief speech of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, I would say. It is one thing to talk about business opportunities, but another thing is that there was not one word about what will in future be the important thing for Danish business and for the business community of other countries: the effort for a better climate. There are both responsibilities and duties to the business community, but there are also immense opportunities if we generate cooperation between the business community in the Nordic countries, because we are the place on the planet that, overall, knows the most about how to solve these problems. This applies both to the part that business and politicians have to do and to the part that individual people have to do in order to solve these problems. What is the reason why the Liberal Alliance completely omits climate considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326161958	Now you should not move around much at the Nordic sessions to discover that there is virtually no area that is not described in relation to the sustainability perspective. There's been a lot of reports in this area, and we're actually pretty good at it in the Nordic countries. I think that if you put a ring around the Nordic countries, we are close to meeting all the targets set for the area because we have the large reservoirs of water in Norway and we have nuclear power. I have certainly seen in one of the reports that we have come a very long way. When I chose to focus on growth and employment... you can choose to pick anything out... it is really from the point of view of bearing in mind that it is also growth and prosperity that allows us to afford the many efforts in the area of sustainability, the environment and the climate. That element is sometimes forgotten, but it also costs to be in the driver's sweater in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162110	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162111	I am of the opinion that if you do not think about the climate, you have no future as a business. If you want to make money, you have to join in, and then you have to adjust your activities to the needs to be taken into account. It cannot help that business lives in a world where we cannot survive as humanity. That is why it is crucial in the future. I would also like to ask both the Liberal Alliance and the Minister when we can get rid of the word 'employment'. As workers, both in Denmark and in other countries, we do not need employment. We can take care of ourselves. It's not about sysseling. It's about work. It's just to make it right. I think it is obscene for ordinary workers to say: we must create employment. No, we've got work to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162204	Thank you. And then we get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162206	I believe that most people do not want to be lectured by Enhedslisten on whether it is a good thing to have a job and all the useful things that result from it. It will be such a very theoretical discussion. I think it is a fundamental thing that people have a job, and it is also fundamental for the development of a society that people are in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162238	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162248	Thank you for that, President. The global policy of the alternative must address the three crises that the alternative is set in the world to resolve. We call them the empathy crisis, the system crisis and the climate crisis. That is why we want to be part of a process of global change. We will contribute positively to a global battle of overexploitation on the resources of the planet, the extreme global inequality, undemocratic conditions and frozen conflicts. The aim of foreign policy is first and foremost to create the necessary conditions for a global sustainable transition, to create the best conditions for creating a dignified standard of living, sustainable development and peaceful conditions for all the inhabitants of the planet. We best strengthen human rights, basic freedoms and political and social inclusion by working through strong communities based on transparency, dialogue and the enforcement of universal human and freedoms. Nordic co-operation is of great value to our democracy in Denmark and in the Nordic countries, of course • the Nordic countries, with which we share cultural community and values in many areas. That is why I believe that Nordic cooperation must be strengthened, while at the same time engaging in the European Union. Cooperation here in the Nordic countries has its very own right, its own basis of existence, and is not just a cooperation that must complement the European Union. When we are democratic, I would like to say that I have only been involved for a very short period of time, but I see great value in being part of the Nordic Council, both as a parliamentarian and as a representative of Denmark. When we work in this way across countries, we have some longer perspectives than we are used to when we work in the parliaments of individual nations. When we deal with proposals, it takes a little longer and we can actually deal with and adopt resolutions that are often implemented afterwards. Perhaps it could be called slow politics, that is, a kind of slow policy, and I really think that is a good thing. The time for reflection between the meetings, when we go home and travel out again, the joy of the meeting with the Nordic colleagues from the other Nordic countries and the inspiration that lies in hearing how they do it in the other Nordic countries can have a value in themselves. I think that is actually a positive process of work for democratic work and for the result that comes to the other end, where we listen more to each other and actually find solutions that will be better from this cooperation and the time and sparring we give each other. That is why, as I said before, I think we can strengthen Nordic cooperation. I think it has also been mentioned earlier in this debate by another rapporteur that we could try to establish closer cooperation between the Council, that is, the Parliamentary Council, and the Council of Ministers, and then, ultimately, the governments and ministers of each country that take what comes from the Nordic Parliamentary Council, and have to implement it in each country. So closer cooperation there would also provide a more strengthened Nordic region. As the government also mentions in the statement, cooperation allows the activities to be continuously adapted to the current political agenda. I have to say that the climate is finally on the agenda, and that is why we would like to see the Nordic Region taking joint responsibility here and taking the lead. I also think that we are doing something already in Nordic co-operation. I welcome the fact that we have implemented the UN's global goals as a permanent part of the way we work. It also provides an opportunity to focus on how we develop in the various areas in which we work, and this is so among other things. The climate too. There has also been some focus on sustainable consumption and forms of production. In fact, consumption is an area in which we in the Nordic countries, at least in some of the Nordic countries, have a very high burden on our ecosystems. Since we are rich countries, we also have a very high level of consumption, and that is something that is important to focus on. The marine environment has also been the focus and focus of this year, and I also think that is very important. So it is both brave and gratifying to focus on some of what is actually our problems, but also to find out how we can do something about it. So we in the Alternative are happy about that. When we talk about sustainable development, we must also support sustainable development for the benefit of the indigenous peoples of the North Atlantic and the unique Arctic nature. We must contribute as much as possible to ensuring responsible and sustainable investment in the Arctic. Furthermore, as long as the Commonwealth exists, it should be a significant foreign policy priority for Denmark to secure the Arctic as a low-voltage area. Today, as other rapporteurs have already said, we are not talking about defence policy, but I would just like to mention my desire for the Nordic region as the premier region when it comes to peace, where prevention and political solutions, and not military solutions, must be at the heart. As several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned, culture and cultural exchanges are also very important in Nordic co-operation. At any rate, this is something that I also see as important and which we in the Alternative would like to give priority to. I think that is also being done, and I would just like to mention, when we are talking about increasing the focus on selected areas today, that culture is really important to bring in. Finally, I would just like to thank you for your statement. In the alternative, we look forward to further cooperation in the Nordic countries, and we hope for enhanced and enhanced cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162938	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326162941	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned, as another rapporteur has also said, that the Nordic Region should take on a role as a peace broker, a conflict-preventor or a conflict-solver in the world. What is the rapporteur's view of the role of the Nordic Region? As far as I understand, I am asking the rapporteur to arrange a hearing or seminar on this issue in a few weeks' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163012	Thank you. It is true that I am hosting this seminar, which was also mentioned before, and it is just as much to learn about how we can do it. So I'm not gonna stand here and say that I have the final answers to the question, but I'm just looking forward to it being focused on and hosting this seminar to hear the results and hear what comes out of it. I just mentioned political solutions and prevention. I think that this is about focus and priorities through civil and diplomatic non-violent methods, yes, focus on conflict resolution, also in local areas around the world, focusing on the underlying causes of the conflicts and prevention in that area, focusing on mediation, also in conflict-filled countries, etc. There I think we have something to offer in the Nordic countries that we could also reach out with in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163117	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I welcome Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163135	Thank you, and I'm sorry for the late arrival. I've just taken over from Mr. Simpson today. Martin Lidegaard, who is usually a Nordic rapporteur, so I would also ask you to understand that it is his contribution to the statement here and his speech that I will pass on. But first of all we would like to thank the Minister for this year's statement by the Radical Left. This is something that the rapporteur is not myself, but the rapporteur is very committed to. We also agree that, as the report shows, there has been a strengthening of Nordic cooperation in several areas, and we welcome this. It is enough and I could hear that it was already part of the debate fair to say that for most other countries in the world the Nordic Region and the Nordic countries appear as lighthouses for democracy, prosperity, stability and also for human rights, which many other regions of the world both could and sometimes want to learn from, not least because it has been a long-standing cooperation. However, what we also want the debate to be about, of course, is that we are honest and say that there is still room for improvements, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, and a new and enhanced energy in Nordic co-operation. I know that the Minister's party colleague, Mr. Bertel Haarder, whom I can also see is present, has, of course, advocated it on several occasions, and it is quite honest to say that people are not always queued up to attend meetings of the Nordic Council. I would also like to be honest and say so on behalf of my own party and that it is not the case that every day there are headlines in the media about new groundbreaking initiatives at the Nordic level, and it is certainly not the Minister's fault, because a great deal is being done, but for several other reasons. Perhaps it is also because the Nordic countries are actually more different than they always come forward and than many imagine when they hear about it from the outside, and also, of course, that we as Nordic countries and we in Denmark are engaged in a number of other places: the European Union, Europe, NATO, international organisations. But at least I'm inspired by some of it, which includes... Mr. Bertel Haarder comes forward with: Can we think the Nordics more offensively? Have we been so solidified that it's always been like that? So from the rapporteur, sir. Martin Lidegaard, I would also like to say that we would like to be involved in a more focused effort in a number of areas. For example: It is obvious to try to engage the Nordic countries more in a common strategy for the Arctic. That's something, sir. Martin Lidegaard has been quite committed to both the major security policy issues, but also when it comes to the balance between people and nature, and how we should look at it. This is, of course, not least true in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, where all parts of the Kingdom community have a clear common interest, but also what I could hear was part of at least the previous rapporteur's speech: how can the Nordic countries take the lead in more binding strategic cooperation to promote the UN's sustainability objectives in a wide range of areas? There the Nordic members of the European Union could perhaps come together to run a common EU plan rather than Africa with all the great experience and considerable resources we have in the field of development aid, or jointly drive the world's most ambitious climate research. These are a few examples where we have a lot in common and also have some goods to draw on and a recognition around the world. One thought that we have discussed in the radical group at least is also: is there more to be done to promote freedom of movement in the North between countries? That is clear; should national border controls last forever, or could we invest in any longer-term infrastructure? Is there still bureaucracy that stands in the way of living and working across borders in the Nordic region at least? I am aware that these are areas in which there is a great deal of work and deep respect for it. We would just like to show our support for this in the Radical Left, but perhaps also signal that we are all taking it on us too. We could do a little more to make our people feel that it was actually something we had priority, that there is something to be gained from standing together from the Nordic side on selected strategic issues, instead of being such a little bit more with dispersal. There is much to be gained, at least for Denmark and for the rest of the Nordic Region, and also for the Nordic members of the European Union, by strengthening that dimension. But in general we have support for the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163733	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163736	Thank you for your speech and the very honest description of the interest in Nordic co-operation in Denmark. Does the rapporteur believe that there is a change in the attitude towards Nordic co-operation in the Danish Parliament and that there is a growing interest in Nordic co-operation as a result of break-up in various global structures?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163802-2	Thank you, and thank you for a good question. Yeah, actually, I'm experiencing that. You always have to be careful when you suddenly experience an interest. I believe, although I do not have so many years of political experience, that such a thing can quickly disappear again; I would say that. But I think there are some lighthouses here with us. Bertel Haarder before the debate is held. In any case, it has simply brought it into the radical group room, and it is also something I have a political hinterland that is quite concerned with. And then I think, as I mentioned, that the key lies very much in doing so through the UN's sustainability objectives, that is to say that we bring these things together. For it has created a broad interest politically, in business and in educational institutions, where there are some special Nordic images that we could take the lead in. I have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163857	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then we turn to the Social Democrat rapporteur, who deceived himself of being the first, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326163925	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the Minister for the statement. Perhaps I do not need to thank you for that, because you are obliged to do so. So perhaps there is more reason to thank you for your cooperation. I think there is reason for that. I think that we in the delegation for the Nordic Council have worked very well with the Minister. I would also like to say that, like others, I think that the statement comes around in a sober and reasonable way about the issues that have been and which we have been debating along the way. It may not splinter with energy and new initiatives, but it is proper and objective. Then you could also ask whether it should splash with energy and action. In other words, I am not necessarily entirely convinced that it should. I think that some of the Nordic co-operation might need us to be careful with all the big toast speeches and then focus something more precisely on those areas where Nordic cooperation provides added value and we can actually move something. I do not know how many of the colleagues have had the opportunity over the last year to be out in the Nordic Association. I myself have had the opportunity to be out there three or four times for debates. They're 100 years old now this year. It's the way in our house that people are still celebrating away in the local newspaper when people are 100 years old. I think that will change, for for fortunately many people are staying. But I think that in some way the Nordic Association actually has a bit of juice and power with a lot of local associations out there in the whole country, which helps to ensure that we have a debate. So I would also just like to congratulate the Association Norden, as is also mentioned in the statement, and I look forward to and look forward to participating in a number of the great and also great events that the Association has. So I would like to thank the Minister for what is in the introduction. I believe that this is the third paragraph where it is proposed that when we are again to hold the presidency of the Nordic Council, we will continue with some of the issues that we have been debating. I really thank you from the heart, because if there is something we have spent time on in the Danish delegation, it is trying to address exactly that in Nordic co-operation. And I have to say that, over the years that I have been participating in it, I have seen how, after each Presidency, we have thrown away the previous Presidency, and then, like the new one, the new one must present something new and decisive, and then what was behind has been allowed to simmer. And there I would like to thank the Minister, and that is heartfelt, for this. It is also because, as far as I remember, the Minister invited the delegation to a meeting where we continued to focus on tourism. I believe that we have an area here that can help make a difference. We are now working hard on a number of organizations to see that they too are now beginning to see the idea and the sense of cooperation. And the truth is, when we come south of the Eider, people can't figure it out with the Nordic countries. They simply cannot find out whether the capital of Denmark is Sweden or what it is. And there is no doubt that here we can create added value in relation to Nordic co-operation. I would also like to say that one of the things we have been good at in committee seems to me, and it is also inspired by Mr. Bertel Haarder, is taking in several ministers. I would like to assure the Minister for Nordic Cooperation that this is not a devaluation. On the contrary, it is an attempt to raise the level of debate on it. The defense is obvious. Health is another area. I can say that when it comes to health, I feel that this is an area that I really hope we, as a delegation and minister, can hold on to, namely that we are also trying to find some of the places where we can move something in the health sector. I'm thinking of small diseases. All the way back to when Mr. Bertel Haarder was Minister for Health, he has discussed this subject. We have a number of diseases that do not fill very much in each country because not many people are affected by them, and that is of course good enough, but it also means that research and knowledge in this area is relatively narrow. But if you worked together on the so-called small diseases, you suddenly had a population that made it possible for you to do research, development and so on. could come a long way. There are places like this. That is why I just started by saying that the bowl speakers are fine, but what I think we should do is to be even more pragmatic and targeted. Then I would also like to sign off on what is written about multiannual budgetary frameworks. Now it's the case that sir... Christian Juhl cannot ask me questions, which is why I would like to say that I agree that we need to focus on the budget. But perhaps I am not so concerned about whether the increase is one or the other. I am perhaps more concerned about how we spend the money, which is in the direction of a billion dollars, in a sensible way. Finally, I am probably a little more concerned that we will follow up on this. I think that when you look at the budget, there is a lot that is as usual. It survives year after year, and we don't really get it stopped along the way. What may be most annoying to me is that we have a billion dollars and that there is only a very small percentage that we have political influence on. This applies to the whole research part. We are actually moving quite a lot in this area, but the political influence on it is simply too small. We have discussed it many times, and I do not see anyone who disagrees with it. I think we just need to be a little more persistent, both as politicians and as ministers. Then I have to say that I should not add anything to that about border barriers. This is an important area. We must continue to focus on this. Mobility, which is also mentioned in the report, helps to create added value for the Nordic countries. And yes, we have victories, but we certainly also have places where it can go even stronger. I shall not say much about the Baltic Sea, because we will have the defence policy dimension. It could also be included here, but I think I will save it until we have the debate on defence policy. However, I would just like to say that the Baltic Sea has somehow become even more important in relation to Nordic co-operation, and that is not least because we now also have some common challenge in relation to Putin, Russia, Kaliningrad, missiles, etc. So it has become a very cash debate. I have to finish by coming around about two things. One is that in the past there was a debate about the European Union. After all, there are a few of us who are also present in this Chamber today who have devoted relatively much energy to this. We have hired a person to sit down in the European Parliament. What's the point of that? For those of us who have suffered European experience, it has certainly not been for everything that is going on in the European Parliament to be dragged home to us. That is not possible at all. But it has been trying to catch some of the debates in Europe where, if we can find a common Nordic foothold, we can make a difference. And those debates actually exist down there. Even if you can say that Norway and Iceland aren't in, there are a lot of these things that they're really interested in. That is why I think we should coordinate this considerably better. And I agree with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen in relation to the global situation. We do not really know how much we promise when we come together in Nordic where we can agree. We cannot do that in all areas, but where we can, we have an amazing power. I will conclude by saying a little about the cultural area, because I still believe that the cultural area is one of the strongest for us. It should not be forgotten that the fire we have in the Nordic context, in the form of Nordic prices, still fills up a great deal. And then I also agreed with Mr. Christian Juhl, who in his speech talked about whether we can do anything in this whole television, series and film area. Sir. Bertel Haarder has often mentioned shame, and I think we all agree that this is an example of how we can bring ourselves closer together. I can't help but notice that as a happy owner of Netflix's access to Netflix, I can go to Netflix and find a headline called Nordic series. And there are a lot of people talking about the commercial part that Netflix is. It's cheap and good and everything else. There's nothing about it. But it turns out, in fact, that because you have chosen to classify it, we have something common there. I think we can reinforce that in many ways. I will conclude by thanking you once again for your statement. It's not tumorous. However, it is proper and factual, and the question is whether this is not exactly what Nordic co-operation needs first and foremost.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326164827	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen. There are no brief comments. Welcome, sir. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326164838	Thank you, sir. President. Nordic is cool. The North is cool. It has a great coolness factor if you ask people from other countries in the world. I fully agree that not only because we won the children's book prize last time but because I am a great supporter of Nordic co-operation, and I would like to see the Nordic countries rediscover a visionary and committed will to develop cooperation far more than is the case now. Although we can see internally differences between countries, it is thought-provoking that the outside world perceives the Nordic Region as a homogeneous region, despite the fact that many years ago the ambition to develop the Nordic Community was dwindled. However, this is probably due to the fact that we have a strong popular foundation based on a wide range of common values such as democracy, the rule of law, equality, welfare, language and culture, to name a few. I believe that at the moment there is a new, strong momentum to take significant steps forward in Nordic co-operation, among others. because greater cooperation can strengthen the position of the Nordic countries in a world that seems to be breaking up since Trump, Putin and Chinese Xi have taken the global stage. Autocratic tendencies within Europe's walls also put further pressure on democracy, just as brexit changes the positions on the chessboard in both Europe and the North Atlantic, not least with regard to the migration of fisheries, which is of great interest to the Nordic countries. Secretary of Defense Claus Hjort Frederiksen's initiatives to create closer cooperation between Nordic countries in defence matters have made it clear that there are important development opportunities for Nordic co-operation, which make good sense to all parties and strengthen the position of the Nordic countries vis-à-vis the outside world.Don't forget to involve the Faroese authorities when it includes Faroese territory, will be my message to the Minister for Defence. The report does not focus on the great visionary arm movements, but several other areas of action are mentioned, and one decisive factor for increased cooperation is, of course, mobility between countries and the reduction of border barriers. Things are moving forward, among other things. Because you have a strong champion in the Parliament's Nestor, sir. Bertel Haarder, who tirelessly works to develop Nordic co-operation. Thank you. There is probably a growing need for cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the countries, and this is also on the radar of Nordic co-operation. I also find it very positive that the Nordic Council has so clearly embraced the United Nations agenda on global objectives and sustainability. It is the most ambitious plan ever that all the countries of the world have jointly signed. And it is urgent to move on to the many targets if they are to be achieved by 2030. I am well aware that the world goals do not enjoy the same respect everywhere, but among young people there is strong support, because they know that their generation will pay the price if we do not strike a balance in the balance between nature and people. The worldwide protest against a lack of commitment to the climate agenda speaks its clear language. Sustainability as a political concept was launched by Gro Harlem Brundtland, and with the World Goals, we have been given the next chance to take the lead and show the way to sustainable social models, whether in terms of energy, climate, management of fish stocks, pollution of the sea or the building of stable rule of law. The Nordic model, which the whole world looks at with great respect, already has a great lead and should take further steps, so that we continue to show some sustainable examples of lighthouses, as other speakers here from the platform have said. Not only will it benefit our part of the world, but it will also be a significant contribution to the whole global process, and it will also benefit the business community in our countries that we are taking the lead in the transition to sustainable production. It is an agenda that is also of great importance to the Nordic nations in the North Atlantic and in the Arctic. We want sustainable development for both nature and people in the area, and we can, with sensible behaviour, create both good living conditions for ourselves who live in the area and contribute significantly to the sustainable production of healthy food from the North Atlantic and the Arctic. On Monday we had a visit to the House by the Arctic Economic Council and had an inspiring discussion about how the business community in the Nordic countries and other Arctic areas see that investment and development must take place in the future. Together with the Council of Ministers, the Arctic Economic Council has prepared the report on Arctic Business Analysis and also proposed a code of conduct for investment in the Arctic, which includes: has a main line which is about bringing value and competence to local communities so that they have a stronger basis on which to build their own welfare in the future. As I understand it, joint initiatives have been agreed over the next few years, and I warmly support this. I hope that the business community in Greenland and the Faroe Islands will take an active role in implementing both policy and other initiatives on this front in the future. The Faroe Islands would like to contribute to Nordic co-operation and have accepted the challenge of standing for part of the activities under the Danish Presidency in the Council of Ministers in 2020, which the government has also proposed. Specifically, the Faroese Home Rule Government has put forward a ticket for the Presidency in areas which include fisheries, farming and agriculture, as well as energy and the environment. The Faroe Islands would like to focus on sustainability and marine environment initiatives, which will address both issues such as pollution, resources and resource management, sustainable catch and farming, and how we can contribute further to the world's food production from the sea. The sea covers two thirds of the world's surface, but by far the largest part of the world's food production originates in the land. If the forecasts keep and the world's population grows from now 7.5 billion to nearly 10 billion by 2050, new ways of producing proteins need to be found so that everyone gets enough nourishment. We can contribute to this in the North Atlantic and in the Arctic, because we have great potential to create greater food production for the benefit of both the population in the region and the world population in its entirety. On the other hand, it can also be said that our future is threatened by pollution, whether it is heavy metals in the sea, plastics in the sea or heavy concentrations of CO2 It is also a threat we have to meet, and it has its origins very much elsewhere in the world, where we do not care so much about what is poured into the sea or nature because it disappears somewhere far away. That is why we will also focus on energy and the environment. We have set ourselves the goal of electrifying energy consumption on land by 2030, and we are developing renewable energy sources such as hydropower and wind power. However, like all other maritime nations, we have a challenge with the conversion of energy to shipping, and we will also highlight this through the presidency in 2020. As you can hear, the Faroe Islands are happy to participate in Nordic co-operation, and we also want to make a positive contribution to the community. Therefore, a united Laying has more than once applied to become a member of the Nordic family on the same terms as our Nordic brothers and sisters. Our first application 30 years ago was made by Prime Minister Anker Jørgensen. We have again made the request in 2016, but so far we have run our forehead against a wall. The wall is based on interpretations of the Basic Law and the 2005 Foreign Policy Act, which restrict the freedom of action of the Faroe Islands to such an extent that we cannot participate on an equal footing with other countries in, for example, the Faroe Islands. Nordic co-operation. I understand that negotiations have been under way between the national government and the government to find a pragmatic solution that both parties can agree to, but the answer has been delayed for so long that the Nordic Association has reached 100 years of age in the meantime, and this suggests that pragmatism is stranded in the restrictive interpretations of movement by the Ministry of Justice. We should therefore conclude that chapter in our history in a polite way and look up on page one in a new construction where the Faroe Islands take full responsibility for their own affairs and where the Faroe Islands are free to undertake duties jointly with other Nordic countries. That it leads to the dismantling of the block support and the Faroese members in the Folketing, I am happy to live with, because the Faroese welfare is not founded in the block support from Denmark, but in the ability to create values from the resources that we have access to and translate them into currency on the world market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326165944	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. Fortunately, if you run your forehead against a wall, it is not certain that it is the wall that holds. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dam Kristensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326165957	Thanks for the post. We should not have worked long with the Nordic countries until we recognise the Faroe Islands' commitment to Nordic cooperation. This is both at parliamentary level and at ministerial level, and I fully recognise that. Then I would like to say that I am very fond of Anker Jørgensen and also glad that he is famous in the Faroe Islands, but it is perhaps just going too far, compared to how much Anker Jørgensen actually promised and what came out of it, but we can interpret that from the historical archives afterwards. What I think may be the most important thing is that one thing is to focus on the issue of the Faroe Islands, Denmark and the Constitution and the challenges it brings to me. Magni Arge doesn't agree with me that this isn't the only obstacle? If so, the Helsinki Agreement is another obstacle, because it is formulated in a way that makes it very difficult for the Faroe Islands to become a member of the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170107	That is also why I say that if, in addition, it is also the Helsinki Agreement, which makes it impossible for us to enter the family under the conditions that our constitutional relations now require, then we must change the constitutional conditions so that we can act on an equal footing with other nations and thereby gain access.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170131-2	After all, it is the Faroe Islands that make the decision to say goodbye to the Kingdom, and then we are in a completely different situation. What I just think is a little important to get into this debate is that it is not just a Danish-French debate. I think it is important for the understanding of this, including in the Faroe Islands, that it is a broader debate, which is not only Danish-Færøsk, but also about the Helsinki Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170202	I acknowledge to the questioner that there is more than just a Faroese-Danish dimension in this one there is of course also a Faroese-Nordic dimension in it. But now we are approaching a choice, and it is much more fun to talk about the Faroese-Danish dimension than the Faroese-Nordic dimension, it goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170221	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. And welcome to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin, or in Danish: the group of social democrats in the Faroe Islands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326170232	Thank you. Now most things have been said in this debate, so I shall be brief. I want to focus on one thing that is stated in the opening statement, which says that you want to strengthen the Nordic Region by ensuring the branding of the Nordic Region in other parts of the world, both when it comes to values and competences, so that we take advantage of the influence we can have when we stand together. So it is something that turns outwards and not inwards that is not about removing borders etc. internal, but what difference we can make in the world. The Prime Minister has used this phrase in his speeches in this Chamber a few times: when I look over the world, I think that Europe should now be the adult in the class. This is certainly being said with a view to the conflicts or the escalation of sectarian policy that we see in the United States these years and the instability that there are in many other places. Therefore, the Prime Minister has said, Europe should be the adult in the class and the adult in the world and take on more leadership than has been done before, where almost everything has been left behind the United States. But when you look over Europe, you see that there is not so much stability everywhere in Europe either. There is total chaos in Britain, serious unrest in France and quite serious constitutional challenges in Spain and so on. So perhaps we should take it one step further and say that the Nordic Region should take on the role of the adult in Europe, as the adult in the European class. For even though there is instability we have had a lack of government formation in Sweden for months, the same in Iceland etc. We just have to admit that without boasting about ourselves. That's why we might want to look more outwards and see what we can use this cohesion force, this success to the outside. This can also strengthen it internally. Of course, this presupposes having a common identity, close relations, few obstacles and so on, and that is what this Nordic cooperation is all about: removing any obstacles that may exist and creating as strong a common identity and as strong a common cooperation as possible. The statement shows how it is done in practice and, as you can understand, there is full support for it, both from Denmark and from all the other Nordic countries. If you look at the common identity that has emerged from this cooperation in the Nordic countries, a political, mental, social, cultural and value-related community, then I would actually think that if you measured it, you would see that the community between the Nordic countries is stronger than the community is within Spain and stronger than the community is within Britain. There are fewer conflicts, fewer opposing opinions, which are strong in opinion. Of course, taking on the role of the great in the class in Europe is made difficult by the fact that some countries are within the European Union and some outside, and that some are within NATO and some outside, etc. But what unites is much stronger and much bigger and much more important than what divides. It has been said sometimes that there is one Nordic country that has taken on the role of a conflict broker. When there are conflicts around the world, many are looking to Norway: How can Norway become a part of this? As has been said before, Norway has been involved in the Israel-Palestine conflict. In Colombia, with the conflict between the FARC and the government, Norway has been involved. Norway has been involved in the old Yugoslavia. I was in Spain a few weeks ago, where I had talks with various people from the conflicts that exist and I spoke to a Basque who had been deeply involved in the conflict between the terrorist organisation ETA and the Spanish Government. He told me about a few days he had had in Norway, in Oslo, where the two parties, the government and the terrorist organisation ETA, had met under the umbrella of the Norwegian Government and had negotiated and had come a great deal along the way, and that it helped to break up the conflict and helped to lead to the big thing that happened last May, namely that ETA was completely dissolved. Norway played a part in all these conflicts. Could it be that the North together should be more active when it comes to these conflicts? I think that is a very good idea. In just a few weeks, there will be a theme session in the Nordic Council, and there will also be such a séance about it here: Can the Nordic Region jointly undertake to be a conflict broker and help prevent conflicts from arising? I think that is quite clear. When I have been in Spain, I have seen what the task for different nations is to live together in the same state apparatus. Do we have anything to sell there? Do we have anything to say there? Do we have any experience we can share there? Of course we do. The Faroe Islands are an example of a nation which formally lives in a state framework that is not its own. You have to be very ideological to say that it does not work well. The same applies to the Åland Islands, and the same applies to Greenland. We have many experiences we can draw from. We have a lot of inspiration we can come with. That is why I think it is a very exciting perspective, which is put on the agenda of this conference in connection with the next thematic session, namely that the Nordic Region is more active and offers itself, so that one day you might like to look to Norway, when there is a conflict wherever in the world you look to Scandinavia. For Scandinavia, as has been said, is considered a country in many places. When they talk about Scandinavia in the United States, it sounds like...What is the capital of Scandinavia? You see it under one, because there's so much community. After all, these are the same values, the same systems and the same stability everywhere. That is why I would just like to say that I look forward to launching that vision with great excitement. It can also give new inspiration, a new injection to Nordic co-operation, that you look more outwards instead of looking so much inwards. It can also strengthen ourselves internally. That's kind of what I had to say in this round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326171017	Thank you very much, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are no brief comments, so we have now reached the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326171028	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for showing this strong commitment to Nordic co-operation. I am very pleased with what several of the rapporteurs have said. Among other things: Mr. Bertel Haarder, with a call for ministers to be involved in the fight to remove obstacles, but also Mr Haarder. Henrik Dam Kristensen spoke of involving other ministers. It is therefore clear from the rapporteurs that the decision-making power lies very much with the individual ministers of the Council of Ministers, and it is important that we push together there to reach the decisions we would like to have taken in Nordic co-operation. But also thank you for all the issues and good advice that have been mentioned here, which I will be aware of when we are going to continue the work, among other things. on the reform discussions, but also in particular in the work on mobility, which many of the rapporteurs have been talking about. After all, we have been discussing matters on a regular basis. The reform work. I have helped to push for sensible decisions to be taken. After all, it is a question of us being more capable of having clear guidelines as to what decisions we have to take with each other. We need fewer priorities in order to achieve everything we set in motion. When Mr. Christian Juhl mentions all sorts of areas of cooperation, I really have great respect for them all, but must also appeal to us to decide where it is now, we must have made some decisions and seen an effect of what we are putting together, because the reality is that the work over many years has evolved with a lot of knob shooting, with a lot of smaller efforts and in fact also a lot of strategies and cross-cutting considerations. I therefore think that we should shake hands with each other, that we will have cleaned that up, because it will be incalculable, it will be difficult to see the results, it will be confusing for the citizens, and we will get too little out of it when we get to bet on everything between heaven and earth. I believe that, with a clearer priority, we can ensure that resources are channelled to where we simply get the most added value from cooperation. Thank you, too. Henrik Dam Kristensen to highlight my desire for more continuity in the work. I believe that this is one of the important things to bet on, that we do not set in motion a lot of new things within each Presidency, because we now have to act energetically and sparkly, and then it all dies when the presidency passes to the next country. The Icelandic Presidency has suggested that perhaps the prime ministers should be able to adopt a new vision for Nordic co-operation this summer, and I feel a bit that we should, in fact, just stick to, for example. The agreement that we think that we in the Nordic countries should be the best integrated region in the world, and then make sure to put some content into it and create this best integrated region, otherwise it is easy to jump again from tue to tue. Then I would rather stress that we achieve the vision we agree on and that we focus on priorities and on results. Several rapporteurs have mentioned the work on budgetary processes. There's no doubt that it can be a really important tool for this sharper focus on what exactly we want. Several also mentioned our desire for a multiannual budgetary framework. We have discussed this. We agree that this could provide a better flow in relation to the use of budgetary resources and perhaps also provide some longer-term planning, in which we will once again have a better and clearer link between the political priorities and the funds allocated in this area. I say all this while at the same time there must be flexibility and, of course, there must be room for new major challenges. One of the things that has been mentioned by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann's side, is geoblocking or geoblocking, I might say for the sake of the President's rules and there is the fact that a report has been drawn up with various proposals on what can actually be done in this area. And there must now be a dialogue in the future in order to find out what concrete decisions can be taken in this area. Sir. Christian Juhl also mentions the climate issue, and I think it is quite obvious that this is a very important issue. And the Nordic countries are just a long way from joint action. But it is also the case that the initiative has now been taken to examine whether the Nordic region can achieve climate-neutrality. I think it is a very important work that has been started, so when I say 'focus on continuity and clear objectives and priorities', it is of course also so there is room for us to be able to tackle such obvious proposals as those put forward by the rapporteurs. Well, then I'll tell Mr. Knox, too. Christian Juhl, that I am simply so fond of the near reading of pages 4 or 5, or where it was, in the report on Nordic Smart Government 3.0. I am sorry, but that is the heading for the various projects. But this is precisely what the Nordic Smart Government 3.0.. aims to make everyday life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim is to create new business opportunities and growth by providing financial data in real time. It was actually started in 2016. And if we succeed in making this cooperation, it could be very effective in raising the opportunities of small and medium-sized enterprises. And now just to make it very brief: once it has been fully implemented it goes to 2027, this is long-term planning... you are simply talking about that project being worth about 200 billion. kr. So that is something that is really big in perspective, and that is something that I think will move in relation to making it much easier for companies to create some growth and some jobs. So I apologise for just diving down here in a concrete example, but I could not help but, given that it was specifically highlighted by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We are going to have a further discussion of visions and reforms among the Ministers for Cooperation here on 24 April, and we will then have a discussion between each other on my line at that meeting. As I said, the ambition of the Nordic region as the most integrated region in the world, we must attach great importance to this, and that must be what we have in mind when we set out the overall objectives of further Nordic cooperation. In the process of becoming the most integrated region, mobility is precisely the key element. A lot of people have mentioned it. In February, we adopted an action plan for mobility. It is the first of its kind, and it is again an attempt to make it very concrete in terms of what we have to achieve in terms of mobility. It is a Danish initiative. Sir. Bertel Haarder has played an important role in the Border Prevention Council and has put pressure on it, and this is precisely in relation to the areas highlighted by some of the rapporteurs: digitalisation, implementation of EU legislation and mutual recognition of professional qualifications. If we could reach some decisions in those areas, there is no doubt that this could really be a boost in the right direction for mobility. With regard to the implementation of EU legislation, I very much hope that the level of ambition will be raised, that we will actually take some of the initiatives we have taken under Danish auspices in the Nordic context. Tomorrow I will be attending a conference in Stockholm on the improvement of rules. That's where I'm gonna go. propose that we try to coordinate to a much greater extent how we implement new EU legislation in each country's legislation so that we do not interpret differently and thus end up with new border barriers, but instead we try to coordinate, so that we do not really do neighbourly checks afterwards, but that we may do so in advance, so that the new EU rules are incorporated in the same way in the different countries, precisely for reasons of mobility, and so that there are no new barriers. Sir. Bertel Haarder mentioned that sometimes a good amount of stubbornness is needed when working in the Nordic countries. I can only confirm that. In fact, Info Norden is one of the concrete initiatives I have taken as Minister, which has been implemented here on 1 January and I consider this to be an important step, so that we have just got easier access to information about what is actually going on in the Nordic region, for all players. Then it is true, as several have mentioned, that we are now marking the Association of the North's 100th anniversary. I think that is very important, and I will also ensure that I take part in a number of activities, because it is there too that there is a great deal of involvement of the citizens, so I have the opportunity to have different views of a more popular nature. Finally, I should like to mention that we are in the process of planning the Danish Presidency here in 2020. We have a super collaboration, not least with the Faroe Islands and with Greenland, about what activities should be. Once again, it is important that the work in the sectors is to identify what concrete initiatives can be taken in the individual sectors which can promote cooperation. There I would like to say both to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and to Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen in particular. Sjúrður Skaale, who has spoken about the value of the Nordics, has all the rapporteurs in this way, but you emphasised in particular that I also have an ambition that during the Danish Presidency we can do something about explaining better the common value set we have in the Nordics, that is, our fight for democracy and human rights, our trust-based society, and in fact become a little stronger in explaining what it is that binds us together precisely because we have a major role to play in the world. I believe that a greater awareness of what is really binding us together, what we can do together and where it is that we can achieve some results, can also make us stronger in relation to the international dimension and help not only to stick to it, but also to strengthen democracy and respect for human rights around us. Let these be my comments to the rapporteurs, who, as I said, had a very strong commitment. I am very happy about that and I look forward to our continued discussions on how we can make a difference in Nordic co-operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326172254	Thank you. Sir. Magni Arge has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326172258	I asked about the pragmatic solution one is looking for between the Home Government of the Faroe Islands and the Danish Government. Should we wait another 100 years before an answer is given as to what kind of solution we have on paper?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326172312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326172312-2	I think we are doing a great deal together to give some room for manoeuvre to the Faroe Islands. I can even say that I also respect the needs of the Faroe Islands, among others. resigned and gave some of my speaking time to my Faroese colleague here during the Women's Commission meeting in New York. In a similar way, we are discussing how best to hold the Presidency and what Greenland and the Faroe Islands want us to do during the Presidency and how we coordinate it in relation to the various ministerial meetings we have. I think it should take place within the framework of the Kingdom Community. I would miss my Faroese colleagues if things were to be different and if things were to go, as Mr. Magni Arge set up. So what is possible within the Kingdom community, I would like to push for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326172418	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And I promise to convey a greeting to Mr. Simpson. Christian Juhl on the Minister's translation of a particular paragraph. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326172439	Now I'm gonna breathe, 'cause now we're gonna have to change into first row seats. I would just like to warn colleagues that some of the microphones and television recordings are still on. It's more so we don't make it a reality show. I would like to ask whether everyone has got a seat they want to sit on or at least can stand to sit in the next hour. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326172648	Thank you. The action plan for gender equality says so well that equality is about giving everyone the freedom to live the life they want, and I can only agree with that. This must, of course, apply from the first time you are handed over to the crèche and otherwise throughout your life. This is a trade, for example. on how we behave towards each other, what we expect of our fellow human beings, what education we take, what work we have, what salary we get, how much pension we save and much, much more. It is important to remember when we discuss the challenges we face. We live in a society where there are still some marked barriers that limit many people in their ability to live the life they want and also in being able to combine an active working life with a present family life. Is the equal opportunities struggle against the men, or vice versa, for that matter? I'm not buying that. The fight for equality is a joint fight against the barriers that today restrict both women and men to living the life they want. The fight for equality is at the same time a cultural struggle against outdated perceptions of what the sexes can and cannot, and a fight for freedom, in which we do not accept that some are restricted solely on the basis of their sex. Is there a difference between men and women? Yeah, thank God. Do all these differences have to be completely eliminated, so we're gonna be exactly the same? No, thank you, but the restrictions must be removed so that children are allowed to be children, so that men are allowed to be equal parents and give priority to the family, and so that women are allowed to have equal pay and the opportunity to save up for old age, including women employed in the care sector. We have come a long way in terms of equality, but we are not in the end yet. We still have serious equality problems that need to be resolved, and we need to recognise that. We must recognise that there is a problem and that we are obliged to resolve that problem. If you do not do so, then you cannot become part of the solution. Then you stay instead of part of the problem. And it is not just the individual who has to do the job himself. It is not the individual woman who alone can remove the pay gap between men and women, nor is it the individual father who can guarantee fathers better parental rights. Each of us can do something, but if it really has to move, if the structures really have to be broken, then we have to do it together. Structural challenges, structural problems, as the word suggests, are structural. They are solved jointly with rules, with rights, with information, with openness and with dialogue. That is why it is important that we gender rapporteurs meet the tradition faithfully today and discuss the gender challenges we face. The action plan presents some of the challenges. Here, among other things, can be found. mention is made of the gender-based labour market, gender-based educational choices and the pay gap between men and women. Because it is a big problem that we lose a great deal of talent on the floor, among other things. because men consistently opt out of jobs in the day institutions and women all too often opt out of jobs in the construction industry, for example, and that we still have too few female managers. We need to get the whole talent pool in play, and we only get that by breaking up the gender-separated labour market and the educational choices. These are also the choices that can explain part of the pay gap between men and women, but we still have a difference in pay between men and women who have the same qualifications, the same experience and the same title and education. When I mention the gender-separated labour market, the choice of education and the pay gap between men and women, as the action plan here also points out, it is also in the light of a little confusion that I hope the Minister can bring us all out of. I read the second day in Politiken that the Minister for Gender Equality will not sign an equal opportunities promise drawn up by Djøf. The Minister said to Politiken that it is gloomy for Djøf to pass on responsibility to politicians. It was a promise that had to be signed to indicate that we decision-makers are working for equality in Denmark, especially in relation to equal pay and equal opportunities in the labour market. There were other prominent names that were also mentioned, among others. I and the Minister for Finance and other good people, who had no problem signing the equality promise. But the Minister of Equal Opportunities didn't want to. Now that these issues are also mentioned in the action plan, it is surprising that the Minister will not sign a promise to tackle them. Now I'm not talking about just signing anything. Of course not, but I certainly hope that the Minister for Gender Equality will reconsider to follow suit and agree with this objective. In this way, we can, of course, have a common basis for equality and an opportunity to solve the real problems of equality. One of the things on which the action plan does not comment is parental leave and the rights and opportunities for fathers to keep parental leave. We have legislation on shared parenthood and a sharing of child and youth benefits is on the way. I am really glad that I have asked for it myself, but we need to be much more ambitious in this area. We still find that fathers take much less leave than mothers. On average, fathers hold just under 10%. of the total leave, and we know that there is still an expectation from colleagues, from employers, from in-law parents, from midwives, from the health system and not least from Payout Denmark that it is the mothers who are taking the entire leave. We simply need a change in the way we think about parental leave, so that both the father and mother as parents are equal in parenthood and a child has equal opportunities to be with both parents. In the Social Democratic Party we have proposed that we share the 32 weeks of parental leave just above, so that the mother gets 16 weeks and the father gets 16 weeks, but with the possibility of internal tradition, so that nothing can be lost just so that, just as when we divide up child and youth benefits, we do so to ensure that father and mother are thought into parenthood equally. In addition to parents' rights, an equal sharing of parental leave will also have a major impact on other issues, such as the position of women in the labour market, the size of the pension, the well-being of the child and the fact that the child also experiences close ties with both parents. So I am glad that the government has done what I would call less work in this area, but I would be even happier if the work were more ambitious. It is also to be welcomed that, in the introduction to the action plan, the Minister for Gender Equality mentions that we are struggling with an outdated view of sexuality and gender roles, and that when it comes to rape, we need an approach that better protects women from rape today. What is not so gratifying is that rape and legal certainty are not really mentioned any more in the action plan. The Minister for Justice and subsequently the Minister for Gender Equality have previously stated that they would like to support the proposal put forward by the Social Democratic Party on consent-based rape legislation. Great, then you think, what are we waiting for? But then we saw that the Left Parliamentary Group, led by the leadership, pulled the plug on the government. And on top of that we saw that the Prime Minister stated that consent should be part of Danish legislation. So now you are standing and being a little confused: what exactly does the government mean and want? Are you guys gonna back up or are you gonna back up? We're gonna have to dig a little bit today. So to equal pay and pay gap. Some years ago Berlingske published a major equal pay survey which showed two things: good news and bad news. Firstly, the study showed that the problem of equal pay solves itself. That's nice, you think you can lay your legs up and look forward to it solving itself. The problem is just that I come to the second news... that it won't be for 107 years. So there's no one here, probably, who's going to experience it. I miss the fact that the government is deploying tangible tools to put an end to the pay gap, for example an extended use of gender-based pay statistics or other tools. There are several ways to get rid of it, but I need something more concrete. I mention it today, and I have also mentioned it in previous years, when we have had a debate on statements, because we need to keep reminding each other of the importance of our work on equal opportunities, that we are obliged to recognise the problems, to act on the problems, to take up the debate and to do something about it when things are not as they should be. As I started by saying, equality is about freedom... freedom to be who you are, without having to live up to or be maintained in certain patterns. For social democracy and for me, it is freedom to break with the pay gap between men and women, to break with the pattern that fathers do not have the same opportunity for parental leave, and to break down the structural barriers that we have, even when it comes to the labour market and the education system, and which limit us to living the life we want. I look forward to a debate with all of you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173610	We will have that right now, because there is one with a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173616	I would like to start by thanking you for a very fine speech. There is a great deal of it that I can agree with very much. I am very pleased that the focus on equal pay and maternity is included in the Social Democrats' speech. I think that is very important. This is a huge problem in our labour market, which we have done virtually nothing to solve over the past many years. I just want to understand the Social Democrats' proposal on the sharing of maternity leave. Does this mean that you want to earmark more for the father or co-parent, or that you want to earmark less for the mother? Because today it is the case that there are 3 months earmarked for the birthing mother and only 2 weeks for the danger. What about the earmarking of the Socialist proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173710	Our proposal does not affect the earmarking. It is the case that our maternity legislation is in fact divided into two legislations: we have the maternity law, which has four weeks before birth earmarked for the mother, 14 weeks after birth earmarked for the mother and 2 weeks earmarked for the father. It is the 20 weeks that go under maternity law, and we do not want to touch them. What we want to touch is the 32 weeks that come after, which is a common parental leave, but which, in all communication, all negotiations, all connections are regarded as mother's. We want to share that across the board so that it really follows the intention of the legislation of its time, but which unfortunately does not reflect the reality, namely to share equally, so there are 16 weeks for the danger and 16 weeks for the mother of the 32 weeks joint leave, but with the possibility of internal transfer. So if the mother wants to keep less, she can give it to the father, and if the father wants to keep less, he can give it to the mother. So we retain flexibility, while at the same time achieving equality of parental leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173812	The questioner with a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173814	It is super fine, but what about the unequal position in the legislation today? After all, the rapporteur makes an excellent reference to it himself. There are 14 weeks after birth earmarked for the mother, and 2 weeks for the father. That is not equality in legislation, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173841	No, but it's from that logic that it's the mother who gives birth. When we have 14 weeks of earmarking for mothers, it is also part of the EU's pregnancy directive, and we are happy to have it in Denmark too, because it is about ensuring physical protection for the mother, but in reality as much or perhaps more of the infant. So the 14 weeks are about the physical protection of a human who has given birth and a child who has been born. The rest is about parenthood, i.e. the 32 weeks of parental leave, and as a starting point we want to divide them up, but retain flexibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173919	The next short remark is Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326173923	In relation to the latter, I am in any case very much in agreement with the Socialist rapporteur that we will probably have to stick to the fact that it is the mother who is giving birth to the child and who, I think, therefore also needs to be so in my family at least. It was, of course, a fine speech made by the rapporteur on many and long stretches, but I do not think there is any reason to discuss things which, if I may say so, give themselves a little. I just wanted to hear the rapporteur's views on the EU directive on parental leave. You might think about it, what you want, but don't you do this discussion like a little bit of a cover-up? Or what does the rapporteur really think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174006	After all, I have not been out to cheer over that EU directive, because I would have preferred it if we had solved it ourselves, and I believe that we have every chance of solving it ourselves. If we then have to put on the equality glasses and if we are to look at the gender impact of the proposal that is from the European Union, then in a Danish context it will mean that there are another six weeks to be earmarked for fathers. That is to say, fathers together instead of two weeks that they have today will have 8 weeks someday in the future. In terms of equality, I do not think it is very ambitious when we have 52 weeks' leave as a whole. I fear that this will help to cross your arms and say: now there is a little more earmarking for the fathers, and then we have solved this. I would, in fact, prefer to share it just above, but I had the flexibility to ensure that our equality policy and our family policy go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174111	The questioner does not wish to speak on the second brief remark. So I'm gonna move on to the next question, and that's sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174117	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I'm curious about a few things, among others. about maternity, and thank you for the explanation about it. The question is: is there anywhere in Europe or in the world where the rapporteur has seen that the social democracy model works? Because we know that earmarks work. We know this through research that it does in Norway, Sweden and Iceland. They take between a quarter and a third of the bar. But I just don't know where the good intentions or good words lead to an effect. But I would like to hear what the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174158	There is a very simple reason why the rapporteur from the Alternative does not know anywhere in the world where it works. Because it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. My ambition is that it should exist here in Denmark and that we in Denmark can also be a political workshop where we say that there may be other tools than earmarking. I think it will very quickly be very simplistic, so either you want to ensure more equality, and then you know one tool, and that's the hammer bang, bang, and that's the thing or you don't want to do anything. Maybe there are other ways to do this, and my ambition is to try this model out. I am quite sure that it will work and that it can inspire other countries to go the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174244	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174245	Thank you. I do not know whether I would call it a hammer to use evidence and research results that have proved valuable and good in other countries. That also applies to quotas, for example. gender quotas. We know that Norway now has more than 40%. women on board because of their legislation. What is the rapporteur's position on this in relation to a Danish context?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174314	I think the art of making equal opportunities policy is to make it unite with the other policy areas. For it is really easy enough to make a hugely tough equality law in many areas, but if you do as in Norway, it means that if you do not meet the requirement of 40%. women in listed companies, the company must be forcibly closed down. I am not prepared to force companies to shut down, and certainly not the big listed companies we have in Denmark. So that's why it's not an interesting tool for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174347	The next short remark is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174351	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think we share the intention and the desire for more to be done in a wide range of areas, and so I would like to ask what I did not think I heard the rapporteur mention, namely the self-employed and the motherhood of self-employed people. It was, of course, an initiative taken in the previous government, but it was cancelled just as it was due to take place by this government. So will the rapporteur help to make a massive effort to secure a maternity fund, maternity facilities for self-employed people, both so that we can have more self-employed women, but certainly also because the many male self-employed people, just like all other men, also have children and must have the right to maternity leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174441	I can reply very briefly to that: yes, I would like to take part in it. Because I see that we have an unresolved problem, and there were a number of good intentions on the part of our previous government, including in the area of equality. Something was changed along the way and something was implemented, but it didn't get implemented at all, and then it was rolled back by the government we have now. So there are some things that you can see that you can adjust a little, and that may just have to go to the workshop, the political workshop, but that can in fact be unfolded again. Exactly how the model is to be solved may not be the most important thing, but having it as a political intention, that is, being able to spot that problem and have as a political desire to draw up a model or two models, or whatever, in order to solve this problem, must be the important thing. I share that view with the radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174542	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174544	Thank you. I take it as a promise that something will be done for maternity to self-employed people if there is a social democratic government, and we will at least support that. It's really, really important. There is also another question. For the rapporteur also mentioned equal pay and the challenges and gender-based labour market and gender-based educational choices. But there is one thing that is also quite easy to do, which was also cancelled, namely gender-based pay statistics, also down to smaller groups of companies, and it is quite trivial about openness. We do not have that today, but it is one of the ways in which the differences in pay can be clarified and therefore dealt with. It is difficult to be against knowledge, we think in the Radical Left, but that seems to be the case. Will the rapporteur also agree with the desire to have pay statistics broken down in smaller groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174638	To begin with, I have no mandate to make promises, nor do I have any desire to make promises today. After all, the challenge is that you have to live up to them too, and that requires both one and the other. So at least you won't hear from me. But I can tell you where I stand and what I work for. In relation to gender-separated pay statistics, it was one of the laws that was on the way, but which was rolled back, and I think we should have looked at it again and make it widespread to cover more companies. We can see that, where the pay gap was particularly a challenge, that was what the pay committee showed in its time, in 2011 the pay gap was on medium-sized enterprises. So getting it spread to it and sharing information is a goal for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174722	I do not see anyone else with brief comments right now, so thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326174739	Thank you. After all, it is always good to hear such committed speakers, and I very much agreed with the rapporteur that equality must not end in any gender struggle. However, the equality statement also says that everyone must have equal opportunities to participate in society and unfold their potentials and talents, and that, of course, applies regardless of gender. All resources must be at stake and no one should experience discrimination on grounds of gender, sexual orientation or gender identity. Rights and freedom for the individual are the cornerstones of Danish democracy. Yet far too many people experience their rights and freedoms being curtailed. In some ethnic minority environments, equality is really out of the question. Here, outdated gender roles and parallel legal perceptions restrict the rights and freedoms of individuals. For example: We can also see that 49%. of the women who had been enrolled in the country's women's crisis centres in 2017, women of non-Western origin. We therefore still need the safehouses we have in Denmark which provide protection. We have established safe places for young people in honor-related conflicts, and they help around the clock if they are on the run from forced marriage or honor-related violence. There is also still a great deal of negative social control in some environments and it is not working and there are also still parallel societies. Of the figures we have received in the equality report, we can also see that there has been an increase in relation to violence. 38,000 women and 19,000 men have suffered physical partner violence in the last year, and there is a huge challenge in terms of violence. And when we talk about violence, there are often children involved. Among the 16-24-year-olds, 3.2% have. women and 1.6%. men were exposed to physical partner violence in the last year, and 3.9%. Women and 1.2%. In recent years, men have suffered psychological partner violence. There we have taken some initiatives here in the Folketing across parties and are just discussing legislation on psychological violence. Because violence is unacceptable, and that is whether it is physical or psychological violence. Often it is the case that when you have been subjected to physical violence, you are also subjected to psychological violence. But psychic violence is just not as obvious as physical violence is. There are also many who are subjected to stalking. Approx. 2% of the Danes 18-74 years of age have been subjected to stalking, which corresponds to between 67,000 and 98,000 people, and this is, of course, completely unacceptable. Unfortunately, we have also seen that there have been some examples of the perpetrator, one might say, having settled very, very close to the victim, and I think that should not be allowed at all. However, there I have been included in the report on psychological violence, so that this is something we should have looked at when the legislation on immediate restraining is to be evaluated. 2.8% women have also been sexually assaulted, and 17 per cent. of minority ethnic men and 14 per cent. In fact, minority ethnic women are in complete agreement and it is actually rather frightening or largely agree that women who wear challenging clothes are themselves responsible for it if they are subjected to sexual abuse. I remember at one point making a speech in the newspapers where I wrote that, whether I went naked in Rold Skov, you shouldn't. That is the way it should be: No matter how and how you are dressed, it is never acceptable to expose others to sexual abuse, violence, rape, or anything else. But in the Danish People's Party we have also had a great focus on men. For men, too, we may need help, and that is why we were given funding in the rate pool for an application pool, which can be sought by private crisis centres and which is precisely aimed at helping men in crisis. Men are also affected by crisis and we have financed it in such a way that among other things. Horsens Crisis Center for Men and Crisis Center for Men in Fredericia is given some funding, and we have also agreed on a pilot project on housing and advice for men at risk of violence, based on the evaluation that has been carried out. So in the field of violence there are overall offers to men and women. But there is still a lack of equality in this area, and you have probably heard it before, and I am happy to say it again, and that is in relation to section 109 of the Services Act. It says: "The municipal council must offer temporary residence in residences for women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in relation to family or social relationships. Women may be accompanied by children and they receive during the stay care and support. So we don't have the same paragraph for men. You could just add the men in the paragraph, and I say it again here from the platform, because that is where I really think we should put in. Men, and of course women in particular, are subjected to violence, also in close relationships, and there we have also made some good agreements along the way, which have put a great deal of emphasis on it. But it is also the case that sexual harassment, sexism and digital abuse have proved to be a huge and widespread problem, especially among young people, and it also affects the well-being and quality of life, and this has also been a huge challenge in terms of what the digital media can bring about. I would now like to turn over the EU's leave directive as well. For it is the case that we in the Danish People's Party are opposed to quotas. I might just as well say that in general now if that question is put on boards or other, because we think that one should be chosen on the basis of one's qualifications, and with regard to the EU's leave directive, we do not think that the EU should dictate the legislation we should have here. We think we can find out for ourselves, and I actually think we have a very good leave, and the 32 weeks when the family can plan how they want to hold them, we still think it should be up to the family to plan for themselves. So we are not in favour of the directive that is coming and we are, of course, opposed to it. Now I am also rapporteur in the social field and rapporteur for the disabled, and I have to say that I often and often get a lot of inquiries, and I often use them as a disability rapporteur in my work, but I have not received any about men who are tired of maternity leave. Of course, it is good for men to take leave, and we must also support this. We can say that we have set aside funds to promote what we have also been given funding for Action Fars Orlov, precisely to bring out the good examples, the good role models, but it must be up to the family how they distribute the 32 weeks. So we will not support that part when it comes to being dealt with here in the Assembly. But it was a bit of the words from the Danish People's Party. After all, there is still something to work with and work for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175536	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175543	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech and for the rapporteur's focus on violence in close relations. After all, some years ago we had a stake pool project that focused on getting some method development where to look at: What can it do for violence-stricken women? It was in this case, but it might as well have been violent men if you were offered free and emergency psychological assistance? And after this project had been running for 5 years as it actually ended up doing, there were two clear conclusions. One was that the women who accepted this offer were better at breaking with the violence. It was simply documented and the other was that those who had children were better at being there for their children. The project costs 4 million. kr. a year, that is to say, the offer not only of free but also of emergency psychological assistance to victims of violence. Couldn't it be exciting if we could introduce it to everyone in the crisis It's small change in the big picture, but it could be a great help.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175654	Thank you for the question. Well, now it was a pilot project, and I don't have the big math on it. To quote from the questioner's speech, I would say that we must be careful of promises, but it could of course be interesting to look at whether there are some things we can do better. Psychologists may help some, and others may get help in self - help groups, groups where you meet and talk to each other. So there are many different ways to do that. There will be individual needs and it may be psychological help or other. It would then have been interesting if it had been taken to the table at the gambling pool negotiations, I think, because that is where we have the opportunities for us to take part in the negotiations. At any rate, this is where I have used my options in relation to the fact that Dansk Stalking Center receives a permanent operating grant, and we have among other things. have also been set aside for men in crisis. There's some good options. Now, of course, we will have the rate pool closed, but then I am just surprised that the questioner has not also raised it in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175805	The questioner for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175805-2	Now I am not myself a pool rapporteur, but the Social Democratic pool rapporteur has done so in this context, when there have been wage-pool negotiations, so this concrete proposal has been made. It has also been tabled as a motion for a resolution. But let it go. If we can solve it in the future, it's fine. It would be a pity that we have a project that turns out to work, then you just fall apart because the project has expired. I would like it to be part of the operation. Let me go over to something else. In relation to the family sharing of leave, and now I might ask a little bit of leadership, could there be other things that matter than that this very, very biased distribution 100 percent is an expression of the family's free will? In other words, does the rapporteur not recognise that there are other things that are involved and that are helping to pressure families to share it as they are doing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175857	I will certainly not rule that out, because this is a large number of families, and it will be individual, what the circumstances are for the different families and why they choose as they do and why they give priority to what they do. But the fact is that, compared to the 32 weeks, priority is given to priority. That's a priority. That's it in life compared to the 32 weeks you have. It's a choice they have that they can make. And, of course, elections can be on the basis of good intentions, but they can also have consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175937	The next brief remark is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326175942	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and to the reference that we should be elected on our merits, which I fully agree with. I just see the problem that it is not because of the merits, but precisely the appearance and gender, which is often a barrier in the labour market. There's a lot of research backing this up. There are, among other things: research from the MIT university, which shows that if you take the very same business idea presented by a man and a woman, the business idea from the man will get far more investors and attract more capital than that from the woman. The idea was also presented with a male and a female voice, and three times more people would rather support the male voice project, although it was exactly the same project, but just presented by a woman. They have also done so in Norway, where they have taken Hans and Hanna, and here the male bosses said that they did not like Hanna very much, although it was exactly the same application. They even thought she was a bad parent. It shows me that there are some glasses that we culturally see our society through • and some norms • that we need to be aware of. And if we cannot become aware of them, we need to have some tools, for example. gender quotas, to make us aware of them. What does the rapporteur say about this research, which is taking place both internationally and in our backyard here in Scandinavia?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180100	After all, I am elected a politician on my opinions and opinions. And my opinion is that as a woman I will not be elected because of my gender. I have to be chosen because of the qualifications I have or what I can do. What if I had been elected to the Folketing just because I was a woman? I actually think that's talking down to women. There are a lot of women who are really good and can do it themselves. And often and often it is also about how to prioritise. I would say that at home with us, speaking of gender roles, the roles were reversed when I was elected to the Folketing. There it was all of a sudden my husband standing with our three children. He was the one who was supposed to do the cooking, and he was the one who was supposed to do the laundry. That is also a priority. On the contrary, as a woman, I have been met with: Well, how can you do that? Don't you have kids? And who's gonna take care of them? And I think something should be done about that in relation to culture and standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180209	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180214	In the first place, as the rapporteur says, the rapporteur ignores the research I have just presented. After all, you are not being chosen today because of your sex; you are being disqualified today because of your sex. That's what's happening. That is what has been exposed through research throughout the world. So what we are saying is that we need to get to the situation where we can move away from the normative practice where we actually choose men and where men have some invisible quotas. The second thing you're saying is that people are questioning that you're a career woman. Well, it's exactly part of the same harmful normative practice in this country. So how will the rapporteur, if the rapporteur does not want gender quotas, come to terms with these standards and practices?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180258	It is always the case, when you have to change something in relation to norms and culture, that it often takes a long time, and you know it. We can just look from when we women got the vote in 1915. In fact, I think that the debate sometimes forgets how far we have actually come in such a short time compared with how long men have had. But I do not want quotas. You have to be chosen on the basis of your qualifications. Then I fully understand that there may be some challenges and that there may be some stiff-necked people who have a different attitude to it, but it must be the qualifications and not the gender on which to choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180340	There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180345	I think it is remarkable how much the rapporteur emphasizes in his speech that equality is also about men. I remember hearing it before. It is very important, I think, for the Danish People's Party that we have a gender-neutral approach. That is why it prompts me to ask whether we should not have it in maternity leave as well. We have been discussing for many years how to achieve a fairer distribution of it. The rapporteur attaches great importance to the fact that it must be up to the individual family itself, but today there are three months more earmarked for the mother than there is for the danger. Does the Danish People's Party think that it is equality that three months have been earmarked for the mother, who is not earmarked for the danger? If there is to be any earmarking, because I have to understand that it is up to the families themselves to decide, should it not at least be equal, how much is earmarked for each sex?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180458	I think this is a very interesting question that Mrs Pernille Skipper is asking. The woman has been walking around for nine months carrying this child. Now most births happen uncomplicated, but there are also some that are complicated with cesarean section and other things. In fact, I think that this is a good arrangement that we have today and, as I said earlier, we do not intend to change it. Our position is that we are fine with what we have today, and I have not received any representations from any men who have begged me to change this. But I have, among other things. on Article 109 of the Services Act, because it seems unfair that there is the difference with regard to women's crisis centres that no aid is offered there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180557	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180600	It may be, but I've had a lot of inquiries from women who've been begging to change these rules. Because it is strange that there are three months' maternity leave which, if the woman does not choose to take them, cannot be transferred to the husband. Then they disappear. They're earmarked for the mother. It is true that if you have a complicated birth, that may be a reason for taking a long maternity leave, but can there not also be women who would like to choose to take a shorter maternity leave than 3 months, and why should she be punished by not being able to transfer those weeks, months, to her husband? It is certainly not the gender-neutral approach, it is surely not equality that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party likes to pay tribute to. Should one not either put up the men's earmark or the women's mark if one were to follow the principles, as the Danish People's Party says?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180657	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180658	After all, there are different principles, depending on what you are debating. That's the way it has to be. Compared to this, I think it's fine. Actually, I didn't get any inquiries from women either. Now I can only speak on my own behalf as a mother, and at least there I think it is nice that you have some time with your child afterwards. When you have children, there is also a desire that you want to be with your child. I certainly think that the first time is something quite unique. Of course, there are also many who would like to breast-feed, and many may also struggle to get breast-feeding started, and it is good that you can give a bottle of sucking. I think that's important. Of course, children must also be borne in mind when it is good that there are some caring parents who can make good choices for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180803	The next short remark is Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180805	The rapporteur mentioned it here with Paragraph 109 and the right to use it, and I can understand the desire to equate it, but we will also sometimes have a bit of a mute about it, because the rapporteur tells us about shelters for men, but I am aware of the fact that coming to those shelters is not dependent on whether or not you have been subjected to violence. So that paragraph is only made to protect against violence, and that means that if you had to equate in this area, you would also have to create shelters for women who were in crisis and had not been subjected to violence. Is that also the policy of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180845	What is the difference is that § 110 refers to shelters, and one can say that this is the paragraph under which they come to belong. You can also go to a shelter as a woman today. That is why, of course, there is a desire for men to be enrolled. There will be various forms of violence, depending on what you are exposed to; it may also be crises, it may be divorces. Men are sometimes struck in a different way than women, and that is the way it is. We also know from statistics that there are more homeless men, and we also know that men die earlier. That is why I also mention men when we talk about equality, because there are also some problems there. That doesn't mean that I'm downgraded to women and children. That's not where I want to go at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180944	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326180946	I just think it is a little important that we keep things separate for women's crisis centres to be established, historically linked to the fact that women have been subjected to violence and need protection. And then there's the shelters. Should we then have as many shelters targeted for women as there are man crisis centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326181016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326181018	We can see that there is also an increasing number of men being subjected to violence, and we have not seen that before, but it is something that has started to talk a little more about. The Minister for Gender Equality and I have just recently been to a conference where it was presented that the types of violence men are being affected by, and there was also mention of psychological violence, divorce and other things. It is not about either or it is about helping everyone, men, women and, of course, children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326181057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so we will continue in the series of speeches. And the next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, sir. Martin Geertsen. Yeah, right? ) Go to the Left's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326181112	I also think that Mrs Pernille Skipper would prefer it to be me who is the rapporteur of the Left. In fact, I would like to start by taking this opportunity to thank both the Minister, but perhaps particularly the rapporteurs for overall good cooperation on equality in Denmark. After all, and the debate has already illustrated this, we do not agree on everything, but I think it is good and constructive discussions about how best to promote equality in Denmark. And I would really like to start my speech there, because I think it is absolutely crucial that we have good and constructive cooperation in the area of equality, right across political divides. I think we should stand together to combat harassment and discrimination, and together we must do what we can to ensure that everyone experiences freedom of their very diversity. Equality for me is about giving everyone the freedom to live the life you choose to live without experiencing discrimination and discrimination. And it is therefore also fundamental to me that we ensure that people who are in this country living in this country have equal opportunities to take part in society and contribute to our community regardless of gender, gender identity, sexuality, ethnic origin, religion, etc. That is why I am also pleased that, overall, the arrow is pointing in the right direction in the area of equality. Because we have come a long way with equality in Denmark, and I am actually proud that we can pride ourselves on being one of the most equal countries in the world. The statement we are debating today also seems to me to be a clear picture of the great effort made by all the parties in the Folketing together in the field of equality, and of the active efforts made by the Minister and her predecessors to ensure that we get even further in this area. But, of course, there are still battles to be fought, and that is why I fully support the vision in the statement that everyone should have equal opportunities to participate in society and unfold their potentials and talents, that everyone's resources should be at stake and that no one should experience discrimination on grounds of sex, sexual orientation or gender identity. After all, the report itself is not on the loose side. 51 interventions are presented, which in the report are divided into four areas of action. And the first area of action on the rights and freedom of the individual is, for me, the fundamental issue, because it is about how best to safeguard our community, our society and our democracy. And here, among other things, it is laid down. up to fighting violence in close relationships and stalking. This is one of the areas that has filled a lot on my desk and even more in my mind as a relatively new equal opportunities rapporteur, i.e. this mental and physical violence in close relationships. I can be shocked, and this is not good enough, of course, that the number of women who have been subjected to physical partner violence is at the same level as it was in 2005. It is thought-provoking that the number has increased among men, and I do not think we can be served by that. I think this is one of the greatest challenges we have in the area of equality. At the same time, we can see that the proportion of young people between the ages of 16 and 24 who experience violence in close relationships is higher than among adults, and frankly I also think that as a father, yes, three girls, it is now strong, very worrying. And I hope that their generation will do more to avoid that. Psychiatric violence, as several speakers have said, is the most widespread form of partner violence. A report by VIVE has shown that almost four out of every 100 women and one out of every 100 men have been subjected to psychological violence from a current or former partner, and we simply need to be better at prevention and combating precisely in this area. That is why I am also pleased that the relevant ministers take the problem extremely seriously and that a broader range of offers in the field of violence is being proposed following our wagering pool negotiations and in the context of the latest violence action plan. I think we have taken a step in the right direction earlier today, with the adoption of L 139 to introduce an independent provision into the criminal code on psychological violence, and I am convinced that it is quite the right step on the way that we should equate physical and psychological violence with criminal law. We also see a widespread degree of psychological violence in some ethnic minority environments, where, among other things, there is a high level of violence. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Today's report shows, for example, that one out of every four of the 18-29-year-old minority ethnic women finds that respect for the family's honour means everything or much for what they have to do in their daily lives. And the same goes for 28%. of the minority ethnic men. Of course, we cannot and should not accept this in our country, where personal freedom is the very cornerstone of our society, our community and our democracy. However, other means are also needed in the initiatives taken by the government to prevent psychological and physical violence in general, because this is also a more fundamental question of dealing with citizens who are not well integrated into our society. That is why, of course, I am also pleased that the government, with a relatively broad majority, is so massively committed to getting something more cleaned up in parallel societies in Denmark. And in this area, I am also keen to follow the expert and practical group which will make recommendations on how minority ethnic boys and men can be involved in gender equality work and to see what the Ministry of Education's study of negative social control on youth education has to show us. Sexism, sexual harassment and digital abuse also fill a lot in our discussions, both here in the Chamber, in the media, on my desk and for that matter too, again without having to prey on it, in my mind as a father of three girls. The Metoo movement has set in motion an international movement which has also put sexual harassment and digital violations on our agenda at home, and it has made it quite clear that too many are experiencing sexual harassment. That is why I am pleased that the Minister is now, among other things, here. launches a campaign aimed at young people, which is intended to stimulate debate on lap tone, gender stereotypes, digital education and respect on social media in general. Because I am convinced that we can get a very long way with more information on this very subject. We also see digital and physical discrimination against people in Glbti in today's Denmark, and I have had quite a few meetings with organisations and citizens who confirm this sad fact. That is why it is also important for me, at least here today, to emphasise that it is absolutely fundamental for our society that everyone should be treated equally, regardless of gender, gender identity or sexuality. Everyone must be able to live their lives in safety with the boyfriend or partner they want, and with the body expression or sex characteristic they want to have. The vast majority of lgbti people are resourceful people who live their lives freely, possibly with children and work and an active leisure life. Unfortunately, however, there are also a number of studies which indicate that this group of people is more at risk of dissatisfaction than the rest of the population. Here too, of course, if the government's legislative review shows that it is useful to adjust legislation across ministries in order to strengthen the rights of lgbti people, we need to improve our sleeves in our efforts to change legislation. As I have said, everyone must have equal opportunities to unfold their potentials, as the report also notes, regardless of gender, gender identity, sexuality, ethnic origin, religion, skin colour, etc. It will not only benefit those people who experience being met by a wall, a limitation or a prejudice because of their diversity from such a clever concept of what standards are. It will actually benefit our entire society because we will be more thriving and thus have a surplus to be able to contribute positively to our society. Discrimination, harassment and hatred are damaging to the society that I at least want to protect and fight for as a politician and as an equal opportunities rapporteur. All in all, equality in Denmark is going the right way. But that does not mean that we can breathe relief or that we are in the finish line. It is a long, tough move and the challenges we face today cannot, unfortunately, be solved with a fingertips. I think we should do what we can, across the political differences which, incidentally, may be present in this Chamber, in order to promote equal rights and equal opportunities and freedom for individuals. We must ensure security and well-being and equal opportunities for people with disabilities. We must promote better use of resources and talents. We need to support proactive action on gender equality globally and a wide range of other things that can be seen in the Minister's statement today. I would like once again to thank the Minister for Gender Equality for the statement and I look forward to the continuing constructive work that I am absolutely sure we can get here across parties and with external organisations, companies and civil society's many organisations and stakeholders. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182058	You're welcome. There are just two comments to be made briefly, and the first is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182104	After all, the rapporteur of the Left is very much in favour of us doing something about violence and violations and, at the very least, creating more security, and I can only agree with that. In this regard, last year, the government set up an expert panel under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice to look at consent-based rape legislation. Subsequently, the Minister for Justice was out to say that the Ministry of Justice wanted to promote it, it was to be government policy; the Minister for Equal Opportunities was out to say that the Minister for Gender Equality agreed with that. What is the position of the Left Party on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182153	In any case, I note that the Socialist rapporteur has followed the lively debate we have had in the Left on this issue. I am sure other rapporteurs will have the same. I fully agree with the Prime Minister when he says that sex must be based on consent and voluntaryness, but then there may be, and I am not an expert, some legal things that need to be clarified in this regard. On the whole, however, I fully agree with the Prime Minister when he says that sexual intercourse must be based on consent and on volunteering.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182227	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182229	See, I am glad to hear that about the substance, and I have become wiser today, because I read in the newspaper that the Left was against the proposal here, and that came among other things. from the political rapporteur of the Left, who was able to tell on behalf of the party that the Left was not in favour of consent-based rape legislation. Subsequently, the Prime Minister, who is actually chairman of the Left Party, was then out and telling that the government did at least. But now the rapporteur for gender equality in the Left says that the rapporteur himself is in favour. I have yet to hear what the great Left is saying on this issue. Will the rapporteur not reply to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182313	I think we should follow what the President of the Left says in this context. I think that really will make things a little easier. So I can only stress once again that I think the Prime Minister has said this very wisely and he is also the President of the Left!
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182324	The next brief remark is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182333	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur says that equality is progressing in Denmark, and it is in many areas too, but in some places it is going backwards, for example. in boards where we have negative growth. I was fortunate enough to acquaint myself with the wife of a member of the Left Parliamentary Group. She is a very talented woman and a lawyer and would really like to be on the board, but then it is time for the Left to be passed over and, as the Left, she still believes in the Left, but she has changed her attitude in relation to quotas because she can see that it is her sex that creates a barrier, because even though she is industrious and capable in her career as a lawyer, she is passed over because of her gender. How is the rapporteur going to solve this problem for his party-wife?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182434	I think we need to talk again in the sidelines about these things, because I don't know who it is, so I don't know what that is. However, in general terms, I think that getting more women on board is something we need to talk into. I believe that many companies will experience that in reality it can be a clear advantage for their own commercial interests if it is the case that they have put together a board of directors which roughly reflects the population of which the company is a part. But I have a feeling that the question put by the questioner is whether I want to go in and legislate in this area. I would like to say that I have such a basic liberal starting point when it comes to legislation. Should we avoid legislation altogether? No, we're not. But do we always need legislation in every context? No, I don't think we should. I will not use the legislative tool to dictate who should sit on the boards of private companies. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182540	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182542	Thank you. I don't want to put a specific person at risk at all. It was actually just to mention that there is a member of the Left who finds it problematic with the situation that exists. So I will certainly not mention any names. But the rapporteur says that we need to talk about this. I didn't learn how to talk into getting more equality in the board of directors. That's one thing. The second is on maternity leave. I have spoken to another Left Member who says that this is problematic. And again, I would say that it seems as if it is not entirely proactive or progressive with regard to the policy being pursued in relation to Members at least. Childbirth: How do we solve this challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182628	In fact, I agree with the Socialist rapporteur a long way along the way on what to do if something were to be done here. I am not interested in touching what we can define as maternity leave, that is, what is of leave right around birth. But I really think that one could speak in favour of the distribution of parental leave, or rather, what is the distribution of parental leave? Because I think we have to stick stubbornly to the fact that it must be parents themselves who distribute parental leave and the means to do so. But how Payout Denmark then distributes the funds, I think we can have a discussion of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182722	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. We continue in the rapporteur's line and the next speaker is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326182732	I was just about to go up and take the floor when it was the turn of the Left, and the funny thing about it is that I was looking at the debate on the equality statement from last year earlier today, and I could see that I was also trying to sneak in front of it. I don't know what to put in it. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his statement. I think it is so important that we have these annual debates. I also think it is important to have a comprehensive inventory of the gender equality policy measures taken, because, as we can also see, they are taking place in many different areas of the population and with many different starting points, and fortunately we can also see that more is happening than is sometimes the case. That's the positive side of it. I also think it is very important that we reaffirm that the gender inequality that exists is something that is culturally and historically conditional and therefore also something that we can change. It is very important that we have the common premise to work on. Where we then disagree a little is that it is not everything that can be resolved through information campaigns and dialogues and expert groups, although much can be done. So there are also some economic and some structural problems in our society that we need to use more robust means to overcome. That is why I would like to mention an old travert once again, and it is, of course, the gender inequality in the labour market that we have in Denmark. The Minister also mentions this in the statement, and I think that, in a very precise and concise way, the problem we have is identified, with a very gender-separated labour market, an unequal distribution of wages, an unequal pension saving, an unequal distribution of maternity leave. Thus, something which is such a snowball effect of sex weakness throughout a lifetime, where the opportunities offered by economic autonomy and ability are only given to women a little less than men over a lifetime. Where it becomes incomprehensible to me is that one can have such a paragraph and then have no concrete proposals on what to do about it. We have done nothing against unequal pay and to improve that area or for the distribution of maternity leave for a very, very long time, although this is perhaps the biggest problem for equality in Denmark. I think that the dialogue that I had with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party just now says very well what kind of problem we are facing when it comes to maternity leave. After all, it is extremely unevenly distributed in Denmark, also in relation to other Nordic countries, with which we otherwise compare ourselves in many ways. Danish fathers get or take very, very little maternity leave, and this means that women are put behind in the fight for executive positions, that you get a higher unequal pay, that there is less pension savings for women, etc. etc. And as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, you have children because you want to be with them. It's just not something that's unique for women who have children. It's also for men. When we do not do more to distribute the bar equally, it is not only a problem for women's economic equality in society ■ it is also a problem for those men who end up having less time with their children for cultural and historical reasons. Is there anything we can do about it without taking the decision-making powers completely from the families? Yes, there is. We know, of course, that one of the reasons why men are taking less maternity leave is that there are some cultural standards which can be difficult to oppose, and that it has something to do with the fact that there is an unequal pay which prevails in families. So when you're trying to figure out who's gonna go down in pay for the longest time, it's got a bigger financial battle for the individual family if it's the danger that takes more maternity leave. We could change that, and we could change that, among other things. do by earmarking a greater share to the fathers or at least equal fathers and mothers. I simply do not buy that mothers should somehow be better parents or that the unique time at the beginning of a child's life should be reserved for a mother. Of course, there may be a reason why you want to take 1⁄2 years of maternity leave more for women, but there is no reason for this inequality. We could also set up a special pool to improve equal pay by raising the lowest wages in the public sector. This is where we find many of the women's professions, and this is where we find a large part of the cause of unequal pay, namely the gender-separated labour market. It would be a political decision from in here that would be able to carry out such a boost and thus also improve the statistics quite considerably. We could ensure that there was more openness about pay and that we gained better insight into pay statistics. We could also introduce the Icelandic model in which we oblige individual companies to ensure that there is equal pay, because we know that it is not only across professions, but indeed also within the individual professions. So that a male nurse earns on average more than a female nurse. And that's not fair. We can do a great deal, the problem is great and it identifies the statement here very, very clearly, but it does not therefore indicate a solution. So I think it's a huge failure that we can go through the statement after the statement in this room once a year, and we still haven't addressed this huge neon-blinking elephant. In addition, I think that we need to have a discussion on whether the gender debate should be a gender-neutral issue. For example, if we talk about equal pay again, we sometimes talk about the fact that there is a part of unequal pay which is the unexplained part of unequal pay, that is, the part we cannot explain with either the gender-based labour market or the fact that women are not as often managers as men are the unexplained part. There is just no unexplained part of the unequal pay, because it can be explained by gender; that is the difference, and that is the explanation. And we have to say that out loud if we are to be able to do something about it. That is also why I find it problematic that the LOCK, which had a special voice in the debate, should be abolished. I find it problematic that it is not recognised that domestic violence often has a huge gender impact. It's a fact. It is problematic not to monitor as much in many areas. I do not want to go through all of them, but there has been a general tendency to monitor and monitor the area to a lesser extent. This means that we sometimes miss precisely the gender battle side, that is, what we have to do about, and if we identify the problem and have the problem monitored, then we do nothing about it. After all, there is a reason why all the rapporteurs before me and probably all the rapporteurs after me in this series point out that we must be treated equally, regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation. This does not always happen because there is a problem with us still not being treated equally because of gender. We need to talk loudly about this problem. We cannot pretend that it is gender-neutral, because there is a gender side, among other things. in relation to domestic violence, unequal pay in the labour market and many other things. The last minute and nine seconds that I have left, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the developments that have taken place in the area of equality over the last year in specific areas, and this is the debate on consent, which has also been taking place here. I remember that when the proposal was tabled for the first time, it was Enhedslisten and SF that were behind it, and there are many who have moved in a positive way: very many organisations of interest, and women who have been through and survived a rape and who have told their story. I think it is extremely nice to experience a popular government that has a position, gets a lot of information from the real world and then says: We change. In fact, I think that is in some way positive for what we are doing, and I am really glad to have experienced that during this last year. I stood before the Prime Minister when, as Prime Minister, he said what the position of the government and of the President of the Left is, and I think that is perhaps the best I have heard from this government in the field of equality for a very long time and I look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326183742	Thank you. There is one with a brief comment. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326183747	The reason I am taking the floor is that Mrs Pernille Skipper suggested that I should have said from the platform which of the parents is best and that Mother should be best. The rapporteur said: I do not buy that it is Mother who is the best. I would just like to point out that I have not spoken about this, and I do not think we should do that either. But having said that, I would like to say that I was not the equal opportunities rapporteur in the last session, the rapporteur cannot tell me anything: why, when the previous government was supported, were not all the things that were wanted to be implemented? If we are now talking about maternity and all the things that Enhedslisten would like to change, who was against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326183842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326183844	I do not think I will be able to list all the things we would like to do in the area of equality and who is against in the so-called red bloc at the minute I have. But with maternity leave, for example, it was something that we among the opposition parties agreed on before the Thorning government was elected in 2011, but unfortunately this is something that we no longer agree on. As the rapporteur could also hear, it does not hold me back from beating Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff on top of the head with it not literally, but indirectly. So that is something we will continue to fight for, even under a new government, and we will have a better distribution of maternity leave. I would just like to say that it is true that the rapporteur did not say that the mother is better, but since the rapporteur had to explain why there should be 14 weeks of maternity leave for women who cannot be transferred to the danger, even if the mother wants to go back to work more quickly, the rapporteur said that it is because it is a very unique time at the beginning and that you have children because you want to be with them, and therefore it is good that there is some time reserved for the mother. That was the argument. I do not see why that argument does not apply to the fathers, and that is why it must be because it is believed that the mother is better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184000	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184003	No, it's not about that. As the Socialist rapporteur said earlier, it is acting, among other things. That you have been carrying this child for a long time, and that is why it has been arranged in such a way that women can recover afterwards. Now it is the case that a father can go home and take some of the 32 weeks, so they get distributed those weeks. He can take his two weeks later, because there is nothing to argue against him being able to do so so that the mother can start work. That's the way you can fit in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184043	Just so we are in complete agreement, I would say that the rules are such that there are a lot of weeks for distribution between mother and father, and out of them there are 14 that cannot be transferred from the mother to the father, and 2 weeks that cannot be transferred from the father to the mother. This means that if, as a couple, you want the mother to take less than the 14 weeks of maternity leave, those weeks will be lost, then you cannot transfer them to the danger, and you will have less time together for maternity leave. It is true that it is a good thing that women can go home and recover if they need it, but I do not understand why it should be a 'can' when it comes to the fathers, while it has to be a'must' when it comes to the women. Why should we not have equality, so you decide for yourself if that is what you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184128	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. I understand, sir. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance, who is now rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184141	Thank you. I am not the rapporteur in this area and I have not, as such, dealt so much with it. Nevertheless, thank you for your statement. I think you can get a little out of breath when you read about all these many initiatives. But thank you for them. If you are going to cut the debate like that when you sit and listen, I do not think we are in a situation where we are incredibly divided on the objectives. It is more a question of how big a hammer you have to beat with, how much you want to buy off the free choice. It is like the two counterpoles that I see in the discussion. It was mentioned that we should be careful, was it the neon-blinking elephant? I have to say that when I hear such a word in a debate on equality in one of the world's most equal countries in relation to the gender struggle, I think it is disproportionate. If you do an analysis based on the fact that this is the biggest problem we have to deal with in here, then I think we are spending time wrong. Not saying that there are no things to do, but whether we hit a few percent wrong, whether you are a man or a woman in different circumstances, does not make me sleepless at night, let me put it that way. I think that we should look a little more closely at something that, if we are to have proportionality, is ethnic minorities and what we can see there. After all, it is religion, culture and traditions that are the crucial factors, and here is much, much more to address, I think, if I should choose the time and the energy I should use. But now it's not my area either. I just want to reflect on the proportions of it and believe that we can achieve the goals of dialogue and the values of freedom that we really stand on in this society. As society becomes richer and more developed, there will be no great imbalance in this area either. We sometimes discuss gender-neutral lightlights and many of them I think oddities in the big picture and often forget the discussions with the ethnic minorities that are so urgent. It has already been mentioned that such a thing as the parallel society package, which we have adopted by a fairly large majority in the Folketing, is perhaps in fact one of the most important things that can be done to break up the standards and cultures that are the prerequisite for many of the problems we see in the area of equality. In those words, I would like to thank the Minister for a great many fine initiatives. I certainly don't know all of them, but I think we can be proud of the level we have set. And then I've written here to say hello to the Conservatives. They couldn't be here tonight. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184540	Thank you. However, there is just one brief comment, although it is a deputy rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party, to a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184551	Thank you. It is always good to hear when there is a rapporteur who is not sleepless at night. I can only welcome this on behalf of the rapporteur. But that is why I should like to know whether the Liberal Alliance rapporteur does not yet share the government's view that we actually have some equality problems in Denmark in terms of a pay gap between men and women and a gender-based labour market, a gender-based educational choice. In reality, a huge waste of potential, a waste of good money, a waste of people's opportunities. Does the Liberal Alliance share the view of the government that these are actually problems calling for political action and leadership?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184652	It was almost the whole palette we got here, I think. I think there's a lot of small steps. I don't believe in the big hammer. As I said before: whether there is a few percent difference between one and the other, I do not think that is so crucial. As long as we move in the right direction. And I think we have shown that for so many years that we do. It's not that far off, and I don't see big elephants in the room in this area, I'm sorry to say it. And I don't see big elephants at all if it requires you to pick up a big hammer and knock down people's heads, who thus have no opportunity to make their own choices in the families.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184730	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184732	If that was a few percent difference, there was no reason to trouble you. What if it was a lot of difference? Let us, for example: the distribution of maternity and parental leave, the total leave. Fathers hold 9%. of the total leave, the women hold the rest. That's not a few percent difference. That's actually a lot of difference. Is this, in the rapporteur's logic, a real problem of equality? I can say to the back catalogue: the model proposed by the Social Democratic Party, because the equal distribution of parental leave has even been out and supported by the EPOS. Wasn't it time for the Liberal Alliance to join us too?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184816	I do not think that this is the worst proposal I have heard from the Social Democrats either. I'd say so. I dare say that here. But where are we gonna lie down? I never believe that we are going to a 50-50 in this area for biological reasons alone. But to go out and still off impose on people, for example, that they... being drawn in the number of weeks they overall have as maternity leave, if not it is the danger that does it, and something like that, it is not really music in my garden.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184848	There are a few further brief comments. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184852	Thank you for that, President. I was also just called upon to respond to that with the few percent difference that does not make the rapporteur sleepless at night. As Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff so finely said it, it's a difference of 9%. to the fathers, which is the few percent that the rapporteur is talking about. The pay gap in Denmark is about 15%. Apparently, it doesn't matter, according to the Liberal Alliance, and then you don't have to go in with the big hammer. So the first question is simply: can the rapporteur not point to a single problem of equality? Does the Liberal Alliance simply mean that we are just in the finish line when it comes to equality in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326184949	As I started by saying, it's not my area. I haven't dealt with it, but I think there are a lot of good things to do. I guess I have to say that. I have not said that there are no problems, but there are a lot of good measures. And a difference after tax of 4%. Still don't make me lie awake at night. I have the impression that this is where we are now cleaning up the various educational choices between men and women when looking at the labour market in general. I've read that, that's why we're down close to a 4 per cent difference. And when you see it, in terms of how important it is that the family itself can make decisions about having to have a premonition from in here, I mostly cherish freedom in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185037	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185039	I think it is good that we have got to where the Liberal Alliance, after all, can see that there are some reasons for doing some things in some areas. I am provoked by this kind of neglect, while at the same time the rapporteur is also trying to postulate that everyone who cares about equality is just talking about intersections. In fact, I believe that it is those who are not so concerned about equality that are trying to neglect the equality struggle to be about intersections, and not all of us. Actually, it's gonna be a little awkward to listen to. When the rapporteur says that freedom and the right of families to choose for themselves are important and that we should not be required to lose a certain number of weeks if the danger does not take them, then I have to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur: does this mean that the 14 weeks earmarked for the mother, but not for the danger, must be removed so that families can freely distribute the weeks between themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185140	No, it does not, but I think we have a sensible leave situation in Denmark, and I also see that, and I think the rapporteur for DF mentioned that most people are satisfied with the balance we have today. I do not see that there are such enormous challenges in it that it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185200	Two people still have brief comments to make. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185207	Thank you. I just wanted to hear a little more about the big hammer versus the free choice. My question is how free that choice sometimes is. After all, the rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and you are knowledgeable in terms of investment and capitalist choices. MIT has documented that when a woman comes up with an idea, versus a man doing it, the man has 60%. more chance of getting investment. If the idea is spoken with a male voice versus a female voice, there is three times the chance that the male voice gets the investment, even if it is the woman's idea. The same has been achieved in Norway, where Hans and Hanna were compared. There male bosses would rather hear Hans they thought that Hanna was a bad parent, and they didn't really want to drink a Friday beer with her either. These are some of the results that have been achieved in studies of the gendered structures that are in our labour market. So the question is: how free is it if the woman is limited solely on the basis of her sex?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185316	After all, you can do a lot of research and find a lot of variable cause-effect relationships and patterns in virtually everything. I'm an old method teacher from the university, and there's no limit to what you can split up and find interesting patterns in. And that's very interesting, but I really believe that the people who want to invest best have the ability to assess what's right and whether they want to listen to one thing or the other, because it will fall back on themselves if they have such gender stereotypes that they choose wrong, and then you will experience by years who is doing the best you've also seen that some of the boards where there are many women are doing the best, and then the market will also regulate this all by itself. So it is not necessarily rules that solve the problem raised by the rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185425	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185427	Thank you. And thank you very much for the rapporteur's recognition that diversity in the boards of directors actually turns out to be a more reliable choice. However, according to the SFI 108 years from now, when equal pay has been achieved. Is it an oar that is acceptable to the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, or should we try to limit that period of years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185458	It is almost like in the climate debate: in the twenty-first century, it will happen, and that, if you say so and so. Actually, I don't give much for that. As soon as things and cases are based on technologies, and that is very often what changes the world and changes our behaviour, you have to be very careful about linearly pronouncing things, as I can hear the rapporteur doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185521	There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185526	Thank you. As in the climate debate, there is, after all, the fact that paragraph 1 is that one recognises that there is actually a problem. Paragraph 2 is that you are interested in the knowledge there is. And point 3 is that you actually want to act on it. There's actually a good parallel to this. This statement says that there is a difference in pay that cannot be explained. It also states that a gender-separated labour market has consequences both for individuals and for companies that demand skilled labour. It says 17 percent. women are responsible for the top positions of the boards and boards of directors. It says that it is mainly women who are raped, that it is mainly women who are subjected to trafficking in human beings and that it is also mainly women who are subjected to violence. So I am just thinking: what is it in this statement that does not make it clear to the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party that there are problems of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185633	It is true that there are many things in that statement, but it also says that it is going the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185639	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185640	But do we have equality problems in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185645	The statement points to a great many sensible efforts. But as I started by saying, I believe in the small steps. I believe that communication means a lot. We have seen with the Methodo movement on social media how things can change without beating each other upside down with rules. It is fair enough to have a position that it is not always rules from in here that solve the problems of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185715	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief comments. And we will continue the rapporteur's line with Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326185722	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the statement. You're not born as a woman, you become a woman. Simone de Beauvoir said so. And the very famous phrase I think is really important to have in mind when we talk about equality. Why I think so, I would like to make it clear in my speech. Because there are a lot of fine elements in the Minister's statement on equality, and I am pleased that there is also focus on killing the myths that maintain stereotypes and false ideas about women. Nevertheless, there is a long way to go in Denmark in relation to equality, especially in the labour market. Because we lag a lot behind our Nordic neighbours and why? I believe that it is perhaps most discouraging for real equality in Denmark and one of the main reasons why development is progressing so slowly is that we have a collective idea that we have already achieved equality objectives. We see it as a Danish core value. This idea blinds us to the fact that lack of equality is a real problem and we cannot find solutions if we do not see the problem. None of us, neither men, women, nor other genders, nor merely people who can stand outside society, disown all its social categories and take an objective position. We are all socialised into a culture with associated norms, structures, values, performances and stories about our bodies, about the bodies of others, about gender, sexuality, culture, ethnicity, etc. And we often act unconsciously in these structures and standards that we have grown up under, in other words, we understand the world through certain glasses. It is so deep within us that we are not always aware of how this manifests itself. Let me bring my own position back in the game I did in the last equality debate. I'm a man. I'm privileged to have sex. My gender alone gives me privileges in society. It gives me access to power, because the man has historically had and unfortunately still has power in many places. Being a man is therefore in many ways the norm. As Simone de Beauvoir stated, the woman in a male-dominated society was the second sex. Because I am in a position where I do not experience discrimination, exclusion and limitations based on my gender, I can be blind to those who do. I think I may be living in an equal society, I think it may be small numbers that we are working with, and I think it may not be very important, and that is why I can have blind spots. Therefore, we need to be aware that we are not always the next step so that we take initiatives to be able to reflect critically on norms, structures, the relationship between positions of power, minority/majority, and how it creates practices that maintain and reproduce norms and structures that create inequality and gender imbalance, and between minority and majority. That is why I also hope that there will be support for our proposals on compulsory education in gender, gender equality and diversity, including normative criticism, which will appear in the Chamber on 4 April. It should provide a greater understanding and awareness of how norms and structures can help maintain stereotypes based on social categories such as gender, sexuality and ethnicity. But it must also give us a knowledge of how it is related. We will deal with it first next week and, as I said, I hope there will be support for it. Now I said before that I'm a man, but I'm not just a man, I'm also a non-white man in a society where white is the norm. So I find myself in a crossfield where, by virtue of my sex, I have some privileges, but by virtue of my background, my skin color must do without some privileges. And it's vital to understand different social conditions... that class, gender, race, and sexuality affect the individual's life prospects. That is crucial, and that is what we call intersectionality, i.e. the intersection between different social conditions and categories of identity. And if, in politics and legislation, we do not understand these categories and how they are linked and affect the lives of the individual, then we run the risk of creating only an equality which is for some women and which overlooks economic, social and cultural differences for others. As a legislative assembly, therefore, we have a duty to address the problematic standards that prevent individuals from developing freely. It is we who are helping to set the framework for real equality and how we address these standards and problems. We agree almost, I think, that there is a problem to a greater or lesser extent, so why have we not gone any further? In Denmark we still see a significant under-representation of women in management and board positions. The proportion of women on board of companies covered by the legal requirement in 2017 has only increased by what is on average 0.7%. Annually since 2013. In my view, this simply testifies to the fact that it is not enough to introduce a legal requirement for voluntary targets and policies to bring more women into management, the so-called Danish model. It is time we took the next step, what we know to work through research, namely gender quotas. Quotas are not an end in themselves, it is a means and it is a temporary means. In the alternative, we do not believe that quotas should be forever, but we believe that it is a powerful tool for bringing about rapid change • faster change than we see today. Studies show that regulatory gender quotas are an effective way of putting equality on the strategic agenda because it is not just numerical. It also helps to break down stereotypes and change attitudes towards women and management. So why is there no political support or support in business for quotas? Perhaps it is because quotas challenge our idea that we make objective decisions; that we imagine that we choose the right candidate on the basis of the job, on the basis of universal and measurable standards, yes, the meritocracy. However, as I started my speech with, we also see the world in each of our positions, and we who are privileged may be challenged when we are challenged on our privileges, and then we reject research and evidence. Quotas can help us to achieve a situation where we are judged on our merits and not on the basis of our gender. Once that has been achieved, we can take the quotas away again. But it is not only on boards, because in the labour market too we have talked a lot about that today • there is a huge gender challenge. So I will not repeat that. Then we have also talked a lot about earmarked maternity leave. The backlog for women who have children is severe. In fact, women's labour income is falling by 30%. on average in the short term, while for the man it is largely unaffected, whether he has children or not. Therefore, earmarked maternity can contribute to the balance of family life and the labour market. We can see that in our Nordic neighbors men have a larger share of the bar, because it is reserved for the man so that the men take longer maternity leave. And I think it is scandalous that the government is voting against the direction of the European Union. As far as violence against women is concerned, I do not think we see enough action in this action plan's plan. This is not only in relation to the labour market and inequality, but also in relation to harassment, violations and abuses. And this also applies to cutting-edge, degrading rhetoric and aggressive digital behaviour, which actually deprives many minorities and women of the opportunity to participate in the debate. You could also say that their freedom of expression is actually limited because of this. This also applies to male radio hosts who help create a hetz against young people in favour of equality. And it is also in addition to the fact that the tone of social media holds 50 per cent. of the citizens from participating in the debate according to Danmarks Statistik, just as the Institute for Human Rights says that most of the hatred and sexism on Facebook, for example, comes from men, and that it is mainly aimed at women. In this connection, the metoo was a huge eye-opener for us. It was and is a movement that gives thousands of women a voice; stories from which we men can learn because they clearly manifest that we are still a long way from social, sexual and cultural equality between the sexes. I support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on a consent-based definition of rape. We have also dealt with this. I began by quoting one of the main thinkers of feminism Simone de Beauvoir. And I will conclude by quoting an inspiring young woman with whom we have all probably got acquainted: Greta Thunberg, who said in relation to global warming: there is one thing we need more than hope, and that is action. And I think that, speaking of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, can be transferred directly to the gender issues that we face, both nationally and globally. Hope is not enough. If we want real equality, we need action. It takes political courage to dare to take the decisions to challenge and disrupt existing standards, patterns of thought, ideas and practices. Politically, I hope there will be more brave in the coming years. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190726	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Martin Geertsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190730	The rapporteur was now in a major sociological school period. It brought back memories from my own psychology lessons on political science, so it was actually very interesting to hear. One of the points raised by the rapporteur was that of the various interface areas between different categories. The rapporteur himself mentioned that he was privileged to be a man and perhaps not so privileged in the rapporteur's own words by belonging to an ethnic minority. Then I also know that the rapporteur is very concerned about the issue of quotas on board boards. Should there only be quotas for men/women? Or should there also be quotas for ethnicity or where one lives, or are there other ways in which the rapporteur's optics can be allocated on the boards of private companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190820-2	Thank you for the question. It is funny about quotas, because we are talking about it as invisible quotas, male quotas, that is, what we have today. I think that is true, I believe that research shows that. Then we have quotas for everything else. The government and DF have placed quotas in general residential areas for how many people can live where, depending on their status. In relation to the alternative's support for quotas other than gender: yes, we would like to give support to experimenting with quotas other than gender. It could be on ethnicity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190854	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190855	Should I understand that if, God forbid, there is a change of government in this country, then the alternative will try to convince the Social Democratic Party, perhaps even as some form of ultimate demand, that private boards should also be able to quota sexuality and ethnicity and other things? Is that how I should understand the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190918	I think we have never made any ultimate demands as a party. Nor will we be able to do so in the future, but we would like to negotiate, and we would like to have an informed and nuanced debate, and it also includes the possibility of talking about quotas. That must be the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190938	Thank you. So there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326190948	Thank you. A little late in the evening I just got up on the platform, and 101 years ago Elna Munch came up here as the first woman elected a member of the Folketing ever, and the first case she had in Parliament was about retirement. It was about how long work had to be continued, and the then government suggested that for teachers, teachers at school, you had to work until you were 70 years old, and if you were a teacher at school, you had to work until you were 65 years old. It was legislation that was presented by the government at the time. Elna Munch went to the platform as the first woman ever on Parliament's platform, and then she said: There is no reason in advance to believe that women give up earlier than men. I think this is very fundamental to the approach, which is also well reflected in this perspective and action plan, but it is also a reflection that must be made if we are really concerned about equality all around, namely that it did not exist 100 years ago. There it seems that it was the most natural thing in the world to present a law in which there was a difference in how long one had to work, without any rational explanation in the legal basis for why. Women lived longer than men then too. So do they today. There was no explanation at all. That was not necessary, it was the view and the law was passed. We lost, Elna Munch lost at the time when it was adopted by a large majority, because that was just the way it was. That's the way it was. Women had to go home a little earlier. After all, they were not as fresh in their minds to do such a teacher's job, which was also remarked in parentheses at the time to be significantly worse paid than a teacher's job. So there are such fundamental things that we have to take a position on, because equality is for us a fundamental Danish value. We salute it, we believe in it, we promote it in the world. How good it is that we work for equality here in Denmark. But we often overlook the fact that we are not in the end at all. I think, and I would like to congratulate this perspective and action plan for taking that into account. It also says thank you for that because it is about time. You cannot solve problems if you do not recognise that they are there, just as you would not then 100 years ago. We have solved that since then, that is to say, how long we have to stay on the labour market, but there are a lot of other things to do. We have a generation of young people who are actually facing many of the same equality challenges that we did, us who are mothers and fathers of young people today, as my mother saw and my father, he was not quite as aware of it, but he did so as my grandparents saw and fought against it, and although we have created many, many more formal rights for young people today, it is still the way this plan makes clear that educational choices, job opportunities and pay, sexual freedom and well-being to be different, regardless of gender or sexual background. And it is not at all right that it is the reality that characterizes Denmark today. We need to change that. We must have the courage to do so, we must want to do so, because it does not come on its own. It didn't when Elna Munch came up here and didn't want to be called a women's politician for anything in the world. That's the last thing she wanted. But she had had to, for she had just created the National League for Women's Elections to make her walk up here, for otherwise she would not have been able to come up here. Then she had to bring that label. I live with it too, if that's what it's gonna be, and I hope so too. Martin Geertsen does, because I think it is super good when we can all agree that there are problems to be solved. Then it may be that we disagree on the methods, but the most important thing is that we recognise that there is something to do regardless of gender, sexuality and background. I myself, together with Khaterah Parwani, have started a trading tank a year ago, it is called Straight forward, and it is founded on a basis of hope, hope for more equality, for fewer gender stereotype restrictions, especially for young people, and for more opportunities for more people in the future regardless of sexuality and gender. I am very uplifted by the fact that there have been plenty of young women and young men with different backgrounds into this shopping tank, because youth has always been in progressive rebellion. It forces us to expand our horizons and take a position on some more things. So this trading tank is also formed, because it may be a little heavy in such equality debates, in an enthusiasm for the energy and creativity that is released when there is room for diversity, when people are freed from straining stereotypes and limited standards of being a boy in a certain way or girl in a certain way, or man or woman in a certain way and fulfilling a certain role as a mother or father. There's really a lot of that going on. I know, I have two boys in school. But this idea of action has also been built on impatience for action because we do not have equality in Denmark, because we simply have to work too far, just as we are aware that the progress we have made since Elna Munch stood up here is not irreversible. It's not like they're here now, and now we can just sit down. Just look around the world. There are things that go back. Fortunately, there are also things going on, but progress and equality are never irreversible. It's something you have to get involved with all the time. Freedom, equality, real equality of opportunity can never be taken for granted. That is why we cannot stand by and that is why we need to act. Many people are responsible for our actions. The companies, the social partners in Denmark, have been able to get a little more together, but we as politicians have also been able to do so. I've set up this shopping tank. The young people themselves act in it. They have taken the initiative of a large number of concrete actions. They have made a manifesto that consists of actions that can be carried out because they no longer just want to sit and talk about it. But we also have a political responsibility. We can also act. We can carry out gender-based pay statistics so that we get that knowledge. We can introduce maternity leave to fathers, just as it is to mothers. No one will be forced to do anything. It is about how we distribute public money. We can work and set goals for more professors. There is progress when we talk about management when we talk about men in the teaching profession. We need so many more male educators. Let us, however, set some targets where we can see that things have to move forward. We can introduce a subject into teacher training, so that gender and sexuality, as in education, become part of it, so that it becomes part of our upbringing. We can introduce a law of consent so that we can finally have that justice for the victims and hopefully and most importantly prevent the gross conduct that is unfortunately legitimised, the violence that exists, and which this perspective and action plan also clearly sets out for almost no change in real, very many years of gender-based violence. Yes, it goes both ways, but when gender and power are involved, something really ugly still happens. We need to act from a political point of view as well. I'm sure more of you were on March 8th. At least I saw the Minister for Gender Equality at night, but during the day there were 8,000 people who went into demonstrations here in Copenhagen. It has been a very long time since that commitment was there, that is, that equality has been so popularly anchored. It was extremely encouraging, and I hope we will acknowledge that from here. There is a demand for equality to be taken seriously as a policy area, just like all other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326192019	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326192032	Thank you. A fully equal society is a central goal of the SF. I can also hear from the debate here that this is one of the things we share across parties. People should not be bound by outdated ideas about gender, body and sexuality, and that is why, on the basis of this, I would also like to agree with large parts of the annual equality statement that the government has made, at least when it comes to the analysis of what gender problems exist today and what visions are in the long term. We fully agree with the overall vision that everyone should have equal opportunities to participate in society and that no one should experience discrimination on grounds of sex, sexual orientation or gender identity. The political difference therefore lies not in the vision itself, but rather in how exactly we get there and at what speed it should happen. The report points out that equality does not come naturally, and here I quote that a great deal is about habits, culture and expectations. This is not something that changes from one year to the next. That's right. However, we must also be careful that we do not reduce the development potential for equality in society to being exclusively long-term cultural changes. Much is about culture, yes, but sometimes we can, in fact, push through political visions and legislation to make the changes in culture happen at an accelerated rate. I would like to try to give concrete examples of this in some of the main areas of action presented by the government in the statement. When, for example, it doesn't work. As regards the promotion of equality in the labour market, the government also notes in its statement that there are major challenges today. It was difficult just to hear the Liberal Alliance rapporteur confirm it, but the government does so overall. This applies both in relation to the lack of equal pay, the gender-based labour market and the low proportion of women on board and executive boards. Yet it does not seem that the government is willing to actually tackle the root of the problem. It is a good thing that people, among other things. will enter into dialogue with the social partners on the inexplicable pay gap, in other words, in addition to the explanation of gender, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur rightly said, between men and women and the importance of leave for retirement. But that is not enough. In the SF we will use the concrete levers that we know will strengthen equality in the labour market. We will earmark three months' maternity leave for both parents and we will reinstate gender-based pay statistics. We are willing to use quotas for the proportion of women on board, not just because we think that quotas are fantastic, but to give equality here a boost. Then we will continue to sharpen and improve the tools that we already have at our disposal. This applies, for example, when it comes to sexual harassment in the workplace, a theme that the government also comes around in the statement. In the SF we proposed on 8 March to increase employers' responsibility for preventing sexual harassment at work. Specifically, this means that the employer must be able to demonstrate that the harassment could not have been avoided by the workplace guidelines and measures. At the same time, we also proposed a significant increase in victims' compensation for sexual harassment. Unfortunately, it is far from enough with the change that we in the Danish Parliament made last year, when the level was raised from an average of 25,000 DKK. for 33,000 kroner. We therefore believe that the level should correspond to the compensation for example. an unlawful dismissal during maternity leave. We must also continue to intensify efforts towards sexism, violence and harassment in general in society. Some of the good initiatives highlighted in the report have, of course, been identified jointly in the pool negotiations. This is true, for example. efforts to combat psychological and physical violence in close relationships. Breaking with physical and psychological violence cannot be left alone, which is why I am also glad that we managed to find money for outpatient services so that the palette can be expanded and more can be given advice and treatment. In this context, the government also deserves recognition for having put forward the proposal for a separate provision on psychological violence in the criminal code. This was an important proposal which, of course, we fully supported and, incidentally, we have been working for some time. Another effort, which I would also like to highlight, is the strengthening of the fight against sexism and digital violations. This is particularly important in these years when children and young people no longer distinguish sharply between the real world and the digital world, but instead see one as an immediate extension of the other. It wipes out borders, and children and young people must learn to be in it. The same applies to the limits that are being wiped out when young girls and boys embark on sugardating and grey-zone prostitution. This is a topical, important and growing problem. We must help the often vulnerable and vulnerable young people to set their own limits, and we must send a sharp signal, both to those who, with material benefits, buy themselves for the sexual services, but also to those who cynically exploit the exposure to make easy money or to lure people into an asymmetric power relationship. That is why, in the SF, we have also called on the Minister of Justice to investigate the legality of the websites that provide a platform for sugardating, but unfortunately, the government has not grasped that task. A great deal remains to be done in the area of lgbt+ to combat stigma and discrimination. That is why it is also positive that the government's statement focuses on the subject, among other things. with the initiative to uncover homo- and transphobia in sports associations and in relation to giving homosexual men the opportunity to donate blood, something we have been fighting for many years in the SF. In the rate pool, we have started a number of good efforts in this area, and I would particularly like to highlight one of them, namely the project support that has been provided up to 2021, to continue and strengthen the advice for people and relatives with ethnic minority backgrounds. Then I will turn to the global equal opportunities effort, which the government will also get around in the statement. It says, among other things, that Danish development aid is one of the tools used by the government to promote the rights of girls and women and that development aid is a lever for equality. That is true, but development aid was in 2017 at the lowest level in 30 years, namely 0.72%. of bni. In the SF, we are working with a goal of increasing development aid and, in the long term, to 1%. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Denmark should take the lead as a pioneering country that prioritises global equality efforts. When you look broadly at the equal opportunities effort in Denmark, I think you can reasonably say that most people are in favour of equality and that the vast majority have the same visions for society in the long term. The question, as I also started with, is how you think you best get there. The government's statement contains a lot of good initiatives and initiatives, which we in the SF can broadly support in terms of interventions that focus on conversation, dialogue, cultural changes and exchanges of views. It's really good, but in SF, we just think it's going too slow. We will use the strongest and most concrete tools to ensure more equality rather than postpone the change when we actually know what it takes to secure it. That is probably where the crucial dividing line is in today's debate: how and how fast we ensure equality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326192859	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326192904	I have a question about the fact that SF will increase employer responsibility in relation to sexual violations. The rapporteur is free to elaborate on this. But it is not the case that everyone has an employer. There are some political parties, and there are also some political youth parties, and there has been a debate here about the political youth parties, where there have just been some violations. I would like to hear: who is responsible there? I am also thinking of the personal responsibility that one has in relation to how one behaves towards other people. It's just to get that debate going a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326192946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326192946-2	To start with, I think it is incredibly strong for young people to stand up and say what they have experienced. In such voluntary organisations as the youth parties, it is hard to say that an employer is responsible, just as it can be difficult out there in society. But I am sincerely pleased that this debate is being launched and proud that some people are standing up because I think it is of enormous importance. So in relation to the issue of employer responsibility: it is really in order to oblige the employer to have what can be said about procedures and take initiatives at the workplace that prevent this from happening. We believe that the employer should actually be able to prove that he has. That is to say, when there are these cases, one must also be able to show that something has been done to prevent this happening. That is the employer's responsibility I want to ensure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193055	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193057	It wasn't a question of how good it is that they have come forward. Of course, you have to stand up when you are exposed to something, and of course you also have to say no, and those who cannot, at least if you are familiar with it, as I understand some people had done in the youth political parties. Now the rapporteur says that there is employer responsibility. I fully agree that you as an employer have a responsibility, but you also have a responsibility as an employee. Therefore, I do not think that the employer can be responsible for what maybe 98 employees are running and doing. That's more the part I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193139	We actually have it in other areas. We have also had it in connection with bullying in the workplace... so this is about obliging the employer... and it's part of the working environment. So the discussion about sexual harassment and the obligation to have a working environment that prevents it here, I think is largely an employer responsibility. If it were just up to the individual and the colleagues' mutual responsibility, that problem would probably have been solved. It is the employer who is responsible for the working environment at a workplace, including this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193217	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193220	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. In relation to the latter, I am thinking that it is inspired by the LO's proposal for objective responsibility in the workplace, and if so, is that something that you will be presenting in the next session? Because I'm sure the alternative would like to work together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193240	Yeah, I'd love to. Let's see how everything ends. You can say that if you, for example, are... I hope that you have a government that is willing to negotiate, so that you do not have to table resolutions in order to get your policy through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193300	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193303	The rapporteur actually replied, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193312-2	There was nothing to comment on, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193318	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and we are giving the floor to the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326193325	Thank you for the debate and, in particular, thank you to Mrs Trine Torp for including the global perspective here as well. Two weeks ago, when I spoke at the Women's Convention Assembly of the United Nations in New York, I chose to talk about women's blood and how it really limits many women's opportunities to unfold: how girls, when they get into puberty, often end up not being able to go to school when they have menstruation, because Volumes and tampons and menstrual cups are too expensive and there are no proper toilets; how women, for example, can go to school. cannot participate in religious acts and must not touch food and water because they are unclean or simply banished to a shed while they have their period. When women bleed, it has consequences in many places, and when they do not bleed, it also has consequences. Women who cannot show a blood-spotted sheet after the wedding night are still at risk of exclusion and squeezing, and although there is no membrane that bursts and bleeds, and although it is not all women who bleed the first time they have sex, there is still a myth about a virgin membrane in many parts of the world, but which still lives away in the best way in Denmark. For me, it is absolutely amazing that women's body, menstruation and sexuality • something that is quite natural, something that is the basis for reproduction • still away today can be a barrier to women's participation and their freedom and for their equality. Then why do I even start here? It was not only because Mrs Trine Torp mentioned the global aspect, but also for three other reasons. Firstly, because it shows how much remains to be done before women and girls are given the same opportunities and rights as men globally. Secondly, it illustrates very well that culture and tradition play a key role in the lack of equality, and it is very important that we dare to speak out loud about the taboos that exist, otherwise we will not be able to move on to the gender agenda. Thirdly, it underlines how important it is that we in Denmark continue to press for equality, that we do so internationally, but certainly also that we do so at home. I think we have a great deal of commitment to take the lead, to show that this can be done, and it is very important, as several rapporteurs also mentioned, that we should not compromise on the fact that everyone should have the freedom to live the life they want and that everyone should be free to participate in society and to put their resources and talents at stake. We have come a long way, but, as many have also mentioned, great challenges and a lot to work with still remain, and we do so in various ways in this year's perspective and action plan on gender equality. In fact, I would like to thank Mr. Villum Christensen to say that he was almost completely out of breath to look at the many initiatives mentioned in the perspective and action plan. And then Mr. Villum Christensen very much emphasizes that there are also challenges with equality in certain ethnic environments. That's right. Freedom, equality and equality are values which are fundamental in Denmark and which, fortunately, the vast majority support, but there is also a minority in ethnic minority communities where women and men are not equal, where the view is that women should be responsible for child rearing, while men should have the last word in the home, where it is not legitimate to have friends of the opposite sex and where women do not have the same right to divorce as men. Too many people also say that a woman who wears challenging clothes is herself the cause of sexual abuse. In our recent study, only a little over half corresponds to the fact that homosexuality should be acceptable in Danish society. Equality must apply to everyone, regardless of religion, culture or tradition, and therefore minority ethnic men must also be activated in promoting equality and combating social control. The Perspective and Action Plan then also contains a number of other areas of action that we must continue to work on. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff actually started by asking me a question in relation to some of the issues mentioned, but did so in relation to Djøf's request to the members of parliament to sign an equal opportunities promise to work for equality. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff asked why I had refused to support Djøf's initiative, and I would very much like to elaborate on that. There are two things in it. One is that I think that Djøf justifies their initiative on a totally wrong basis, starting from an international study where it should be better to be women in Rwanda, Namibia, the Philippines and Nicaragua. I just have to say that when you do such a study, where you then give the impression that equality in those countries is much better, there is something wrong with the indicators used in the study. So I actually find it very surprising that an organisation such as Djøf can choose to base such a study on such a basis. That's one reason. The other is that frankly, I think it's a little cottond by Djøf. If anything, we have here an organisation that has every opportunity to move on to equality... an organisation whose members sit on those posts around which they can decide that more women need to enter senior positions, where they can decide that more women need to be on board, where they can motivate men to take more maternity leave, where they can say that they will have transparency in the workplace in relation to whether equal pay is paid, etc. etc. Djøf's 95,000 members could, if you wanted to work with it in the organization, do something about equality, but no, you choose to jump over where the hardest is, and try to wipe it off on the politicians, who then have to come up with square, rigid rules. Moreover, in my view, what we can do in terms of legislation is limited. We can do something, but it is also about culture and tradition, and whether you actually act out there in relation to the desire for equality. So that's why I don't want to sign Djøf's request. Then several rapporteurs have addressed the challenge of equal pay, and it is the case that men and women are still not paid the same thing. There I am concerned about the pay gap that remains when it is taken into account that men and women choose different education and work in different sectors and occupations. There is still a so-called unexplained wage gap and it is very stable at between 4% and 7%. What is surprising is that there are still studies which show that this is true. Even among newly trained engineers, there's a pay difference between 4 and 7 per cent, and it's unfavorable for women. That is why, together with the Minister for Employment, I have initiated a dialogue with the social partners on what we need to do in this area. I do not think it is acceptable for there to be this unexplained pay gap, and that is why I expect the social partners to offer what they need to do. Several rapporteurs have said that public pay statistics must be more detailed, but I do not think it is the right tool to resort to, but it is of course a question of saying in the workplace that they want to make sure that they pay equal pay for equal work and treat men and women equally, and that is what we must try to achieve. We must also continue to work to ensure that young people are free to choose the education that suits their interests and abilities without being limited by expectations of what suits their genders, and Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is absolutely right that these expectations are still absent by gender. We must have all the talents in managements and boards, and it cannot be that, for example. of the companies that have to deliver target numbers, which are around 1,600 of the largest companies, still away are about 800 companies that do not have a single woman on their boards. Although we have agreed that targets should be set, we have to note that it has not moved in relation to the entry of women on their boards. I am also engaged in a dialogue with the recruitment industry so that they could take up their share of the effort, but, above all, I actually believe that it is a question of getting men to take responsibility and to give a hand to equality, because, looking at the figures that several people have mentioned, we see that it is very much the men who sit in the leading positions who sit in a position where they can just decide to involve more women. I was very pleased that a number of rapporteurs also mentioned the stress levels of young people. I think it is important that we are concerned about how we can help the many young people who have really great problems in terms of poor mental health or stress, or who are simply dissatisfied with their own body or their own life. There it is that the government, among other things. has taken the initiative of a stress panel and the Minister for Health has had a young panel, and it is precisely to try to see what initiatives we can take to increase the prosperity of young people. A number of questions were raised about the earmarked maternity leave, and I think Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff asked about the equal parenthood. I would like to say that I am very much in favour of families having a broad framework for adapting themselves, as is now best suited to their families, but now we need to start discussions with each other on how to implement the decision taken under the auspices of the European Union that a larger part should be earmarked for fathers. In this context, we must look at what we can agree on, both between the parties of the Folketing, but also with the social partners, in order to ensure a better distribution of maternity leave between men and women. There is, I think, little doubt that a better distribution of maternity leave is really good for equality. The maternity leave period has a major impact on what opportunities are available both in the labour market and also in relation to the income of life, so this is a very important debate, which we in the government will then address after a choice to see how we implement the decision that has been taken in the context of the European Union. In relation to young people, it is also important to look at digital development and how it affects, and that we have taken this whole discussion about digital behaviour, and how to equate the behavior that you have when you are online with the behavior that you have when you are offline. One of the things that awaits you is, among other things: discussions on sex education and how more content of this kind can be put into sex education. I would like to thank Mrs Adsbøl very much for mentioning in detail the challenges of various kinds in the field of violence, and I also recognise the great effort that has been made, among other things. on behalf of Mrs Adsbøl, in view of the fact that we have found funding in the context of a pool of rates, and that we have agreed on a very strong action plan for both physical violence, psychological violence and, among other things, action plans. stalking and other elements mentioned by Mrs Adsbøl. The rapporteur specifically mentioned young people and how the violence among young people in close relationships is actually significant, also in relation to the figures in general. I fully agree that it is very important that we pay particular attention to how we can prevent young people from taking violence further in their lives. There we have a very special challenge. There was a little debate on the current rules on rape, and I was pleased that the questions and answers that came also made clear that the Prime Minister, in an exchange of views with Mrs Pernille Skipper, was very clear in that the government's position is that sex should take place voluntarily. The government has started work to look at where we can change the law, and I think it is really important that we now get a proposal from the Criminal Law Council in relation to taking into account both how we provide better legal protection for women • because it is certainly not good enough today • and how we then also ensure that we do not compromise on legal certainty. So I think it is absolutely necessary that we get the Criminal Law Council to work on it and give some reports on how we get through, that sex should be done voluntarily. For me, there is no doubt that we do not have adequate protection for women today, and I think that the figures we can see in various studies about how many women say they are subjected to rape and attempted rape speak for themselves in relation to women's ability to follow up on this in the legal system. So these are the challenges. Let me finish with this and say that the challenges of equality are not solved by snatching solutions, nor are they solved by legislation alone here in the Folketing. This requires a broad effort, and much of it is also about getting the various relevant people in society to take responsibility for promoting equality, and that we get the push on in terms of our traditions and our culture at all. We in the government will ensure that we follow up on all the elements of the perspective and action plan now. We are not afraid to tackle what might be called the sore toes and the many taboos that are in the area. That is why I hope that together we can also have some good decisions about promoting equality in Denmark. For, like many other rapporteurs, I am also impatient, and I believe that the initiatives in the perspective and action plan will be able to make a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326194949	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326194955	I do not think it is gloomy that Djøf or others have high expectations that politicians act politically or that a government governs. I think it is quite natural, and I think it is a strange leghold trap that our current government has left to itself at the beginning of the government period, in other words that it has been said that it will not legislate in the area of equality. I think that from the very beginning is a mysterious way of working. Why not have so much self-confidence, so that one believes that one can legislate when necessary and that one can not legislate when it is not necessary. I need to know whether the government is also prepared to look inwards when we talk about representation of both sexes. If we look at where the raw political power is in Denmark, it is first and foremost seen in the government committees, i.e. the government's coordination committee, Economics Committees, Security Committees. This is where the power is, and this is where the governments' most important decisions are taken. I can say that there are 86 per cent in the coordination committee. Men, 14%. women. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has 100 per cent. men, 0 per cent. women. On the Security Committee 100 per cent. men, 0 per cent. women. Wasn't it time to do something about it too?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195108	Thank you very much for telling us about the government's composition of the various committees. I also hope that the decisions taken in those committees could be followed up. Because I think it is the substance that is the most important thing. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff: Where does the Social Democratic Party want legislation? What exactly are some legislative initiatives that need to be taken, for example. to get more women in top management?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195136	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195137	Well, I would like to do the President's job and then say that it is not the Minister who is asking questions to me now, but that I am asking questions to the Minister. I would like to hear what the government has of ambition to ensure that the representation thing is not just something that everyone else has to take care of, but that it is also the government that has to look inwards. Because, as the Minister rightly says, and as I fully agree with him, it is about getting all talents into play. I have a belief and I feel absolutely convinced that there are plenty of female talents in the government too. So why not get them into play and then make sure that there can also be some women in the rooms where the government's most important decisions are made?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195219	In other words, it was the Socialist rapporteur who himself started to talk about legislating out of the gender challenges we have today. That is why it is quite natural for me to point out that I do not believe that the legislation is adequate in all these matters. And for example... I do not think that we can legislate on the fact that we lack women in top positions in Denmark. That is where men have a great deal of responsibility: the men who are already sitting out there to choose more women to enter the top posts. And if we get more women into top positions, we'll also get a recruitment basis to get more women into boards. So I would just point out that I think the Socialist rapporteur is completely wrong in trying to give the impression that one can legislate out of the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195302	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195305	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I will work to ensure that boys and girls are not limited by stereotype expectations. I will work to ensure that we tackle the stress levels of young women in particular. I'm gonna work for men to take a bigger part of the leave period. I want to work for more women in management. I will work for greater flexibility in men and women's career patterns and, last but not least, I will work for less inequality in earning pension assets. I'm gonna work for that. Is that something the Minister wants to work for?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195338	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195340	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195343	Well, that's Djøf's vow of equality. So I do not understand why it should be minimized and rejected because of a reference to Rwanda, when this is what we say 'yes' to. So thank you for the Minister's view that there is support for this. The second is the ISO standard, the Icelandic model. It is a standard that helps as a tool to ensure that men and women have equal pay, i.e. it is some ISO standards that are used as a management tool. Is the Minister willing to certify his own ministry in these ISO standards? It costs no more than 25,000 to 30,000, and it then reveals whether there is equal pay between men and women in the Ministry of Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195425	Well, I'm a little surprised that Mr. Knox... Roger Courage Matthisen thinks that it is okay that Djøf just passes the task on to the politicians, because many of the things that were mentioned here in substance, which can promote equality, are something we cannot legislate out of. Take again such a thing as the stereotype approach to girls and men. We really need to get it broken down. We cannot legislate out of that. This is something we need to work on in relation to how we look at each other, and I think that the rapporteur himself made a very strong speech here during the debate on it. That is why I do not understand why the rapporteur does not agree that we must then demand from Djøf, when they want to have this on the agenda, that they then explain what responsibility they themselves take and how they work with it within their organisation and how they get their members to implement that equality policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195517	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195519	Now, in my rapporteur's speech, I myself mentioned the problem of sugardating, grey-zone prostitution. Is it the Minister's view that it is a problem of equality, whether it is a problem of grey zone prostitution or a problem of prostitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195541	Yes, I think that is absolutely a problem of equality, and we in the government have taken the initiative to set up a working group on prostitution, because we think we need to look at this whole area. It is both a question of what kind of regulatory framework there is for sex workers in prostitution at all, and then it is a stronger effort to see how to help people out of prostitution. How can we draw attention to this if prostitutes are involved, and how can we make an effort to help them? So I absolutely believe that it is women who are challenged in relation to the problems of prostitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195620	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195621	I only understand the function of the working group mostly, as it is a matter of really normalising prostitution as a profession, and that is actually what that working group is supposed to be working on. I may have misunderstood, but I find it difficult to see how this is a problem of equality being addressed in the terms of reference of that working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195647	I regard prostitution as a problem of equality, and it is certainly women who are challenged and have problems. That is what we see in terms of trade, and that is what we see in terms of prostitution at all. What we want with the working group is also to see if we can provide a better regulatory framework for prostitutes. In fact, I had the pleasure of being with Mrs Karina Adsbøl to visit a sex worker, a prostitute, who among other things. told about all her challenges with that she can't get an accident insurance, she can't get an in-country insurance. And she pays her taxes, but doesn't think she gets any benefits again because she's not in a professional group, so she can cross off right in relation to so having some of the opportunities that everyone else has in Danish society. There it really is and it is one of the taboos we would like to break from the government's side a question of saying: Now we are looking into what the situation really is for the prostitutes. What can we do in terms of legislation to provide a sensible framework for it, and what can we do in particular to make better efforts in terms of helping some out of prostitution? What can we do to improve our efforts in relation to people who are being traded into prostitution? We think this is an area that we need to continue to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195815	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190326195824	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 March 2019 at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
