ParlaMint-DK_20190125100008	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 21 January 2019, it was decided that the responsibility for market surveillance for various goods and products was transferred from the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing to the Minister for Business per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The message will be printed in the Parliamentary Time (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, in the Royal Resolution of 21 January 2019, responsibility for market surveillance of construction products has been determined by the Royal Resolution of 21 January 2019, cf. 2 and 3 and Article 31b (2) and (3) and Article 31b (3) 1-4 of the Building Act, cf. Legislative Decree No. 1178 of 23 September 2016, as amended, and §§ 7-12 of Order No. 688 of 17 June 2013 on the placing on the market, sale and market control of construction products and pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council 305/2011 of 9 March 2011 laying down harmonised conditions for the placing on the market of construction products and repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC, that responsibility for market surveillance of personal protective equipment for use in traffic, tyre marking, two- or three-wheel vehicles, quadricycles, motor vehicles, etc. as well as agricultural and forestry vehicles, ref. 1, § 68 (b) and § 68 (c) of the Road Traffic Code, cf. Legislative Decree No. Regulation (EC) No 1324 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2018 as amended, implementing parts of Directive 2007/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 September 2007 establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, and parts of Directive 2005/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 on unfair business practices of undertakings with regard to consumers in the internal market and amending Council Directive 84/450/EEC and Directives 97/7/EC, 98/27/EC and 2002/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2006/2004 (Unfair Commercial Practices Directive), as well as pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/425 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on personal protective equipment and repealing Council Directive 89/686/EEC, Regulation (EC) No Regulation (EU) No 1222/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the marking of tyres with regard to fuel efficiency and other important parameters; Regulation (EU) No 168/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles and Regulation (EU) No 168/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council 167/2013 of 5 February 2013 on the approval and market surveillance of agricultural and forestry tractors, that the responsibility for the market surveillance of bicycles, as set out in 1, § 68 (b) and § 68 (c) of the Road Traffic Code, cf. Legislative Decree No. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 2006/2004 (the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive) and Article 37a of Order No. 976 of 28 June 2016 on the design and equipment of bicycles, etc., as amended by Order No. 455 of 9 May 2017, that responsibility for market surveillance of crash helmets, cf. 1, § 68 (b) and § 68 (c) of the Road Traffic Code, cf. Legislative Decree No. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 2006/2004 (the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive) and section 4a of Order No. 518 of 3 July 1998 on crash helmets, as amended by Order No. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 1, § 68 (b) and § 68 (c) of the Road Traffic Code, cf. Legislative Decree No. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 2006/2004 (the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive) and Article 2a of Order No. 1002 of 16 September 2014 on requirements for safety equipment for children in cars, as amended by Order No. 457 of 9 May 2017, is transferred from the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing to the Minister for Industry per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I ask the President to inform Parliament of this sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen Today there is the following review: Rasmus Prehn (S), Kim Christiansen (DF), Henning Hyllested (EL), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Motion for a resolution no. B 83 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the construction of a new railway on West Funen). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190125100105	During these days the Danish Parliament has visited Norway by the Grand President, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, and delegation. I welcome the delegation and hope you have had a fruitful visit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125100129	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125100158	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 January 2019. Here you go to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125100228	Thank you. I must motivate this question, which is about the need for a genuinely new culture of education. We talk a lot about it. What is it that pushes young people into education? And we are very concerned about that, I think that we are actually widely recognised that we should not train for the assembly line anymore, but that we should not just have young people who are able to read quickly and remember best and could repeat it, but that we should actually do away with an educational system where everyone may be running for the goals that we politicians have set or some others have set, but where we forget what is really the purpose of education. In recent years, such a culture of achievement and correctness has developed, and we bear a broad responsibility politically and socially, which permeates our school and education system, and I believe that we have reached, many of us at least, a recognition that both students up through school and in upper secondary and higher education have become really good at training the ability to deliver the answers that they think their teachers want to hear or we have set goals for, rather than those who challenge and rethink and give room for commitment and curiosity. High school students choose the courses they think they can do best rather than those who challenge them most. We have come to set ourselves up in a way that rewards those who do what we expect, from top to toe, even though we really want the commitment and curiosity, the courage, the ability and the will to embark on something new, even something that you don't know if you can get a good character for. Because that's what we always say. On festive occasions and in our speeches we say: The future calls for something quite different. It calls for us to be able to do many different things, that it is not the character that matters, but your character, what you want, whether you believe in yourself. But with learning goals and national tests and character races and bonus schemes, which we have fortunately eliminated one of, but there are more left, with the absorption pressure and also with the performance culture and the drive mill that we have created, we have been given a • and so we have to have a thorough discussion of a performance culture in which more and more children and young people are challenged by stress, by sadness, even by depression and anxiety, which is extensive and pervasive. So in recent years we have developed a youth culture and an education system which unfortunately helps to push young people, and this is at the expense of immersion and overstepping, curiosity and creativity. We have to do something about that. We have as our ambition that Danish young people should have greater confidence in their own opportunities, and they should be skilled and courageous and ambitious and also good at working together and would each other in relation. We need to look at the progress reform, we need to look at the character race and the education ceiling must be abolished. We ourselves helped to introduce the drive-through reform, and we would like to abolish it now. I look very much forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125100653	I would like to say as an introduction that we must keep to the speaking time, because otherwise it will go away. Here you go to the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125100704	I would like to thank the Radical Left for calling the Minister of Education and myself for this debate on questions. Young people with evil in life who are concerned about their future, who are afraid to fail and who experience that they must be perfect to strike, are an issue on which we should talk much more, and that is why I am glad that we are taking the debate in this Chamber today. On my first day as a minister, I was presented with a study that shows that about a third of young people feel stressed and are in pain in their lives. For the girls alone, the figure is even higher. It really hit me, and it made a big impression on me, because you shouldn't be unhappy when you're young and you're in the middle of an education. It has to be a time of hope, dreams and opportunities. It worries me when I hear that young people are afraid to raise their hands and ask questions; when I hear that one is afraid not to get 12 in all subjects; when one talks about wasting one's average if one chooses an education with the heart instead of seeking the courses with the highest grades. As an entrepreneur, I know that mistakes and the ability to learn from them are crucial to success. If you do not want to fail, you will not succeed in choosing instead of the sure, the beaten path, and never take the leap into the unknown. This applies not only to entrepreneurship, but generally in our society and, of course, also in our education system. This is a problem for curiosity, for learning and for the well-being of young people. That is why we need to put an end to the fear of failing. When we talk about how to do it, we should remember an important distinction in this debate, because we would like to motivate and encourage young people to perform; we would like it to be challenging to take an education • You may be pressured and nervous up for an exam or a difficult task, and you may experience that it is hard and demanding to train. But when it develops into fear of error, evil in life and focus on always being perfect, there is cause for concern. I would like to help change that, so that we have a necessary battle with a culture of perfection and the fear of failing. I would like to highlight three initiatives which I believe can make a difference: we need to adjust the scale of character, we need to abolish the fastest-track bonus and we need to look at the recording system. Let me briefly put a little more words on that. The first is the grade scale. First of all, I would like to stress that grades are good. It is a clear form of assessment, and grades are demanded both by students and students, but we must consider how we use them and ensure that the use of characters does not contribute to an unhealthy culture. This is the starting point for the government's proposal to adjust the rating scale. The scale today has too much focus on errors. The scale's step descriptions focus on errors and shortcomings in performance. We're gonna have to take a look at that. We also have to look at the big jumps in the middle of the scale between the characters 4, 7 and 10. The big leaps between the steps can help drive the characters up. We have to do something about that. At the same time, we must be able to recognise the students who deliver the extraordinary • when you dare take a chance and attack a problem from a completely different angle. The next thing is that we abolish the fastest-track bonus, where you can multiply your cut by 1.08 so that the grades are not unnecessarily screwed up, and so that we do not mix speed and professionalism. It supports all the parties in the Danish Parliament for thanking them for doing so. The third initiative we need to look at is whether the recording system can be improved in the future. The characters will also be a very important part of the recording system in the future, but there is a need to look at whether in some cases it can be supplemented with other criteria, so that we get a recording system where grades do not mean everything. I haven't decided on a concrete model yet. This is something I would like to discuss in the near future, and I am, of course, happy to hear your proposals. In relation to admission and the start of studies, I would like to emphasise something very important, and that is that the required average character for admission to an education today only reflects supply and demand. It has nothing to do with the value of education. Training with a lower limit rate is not therefore a poor education. A high average is not wasted by seeking training without a high limit. We need to change that view of education. For example, almost 10% have. of the participants in the teacher training since 2016 had an average of at least 10 with them from high school. There are plenty of very talented students who read to teachers, although the admission requirement is not towering. It is important for young people to be aware of this, and I believe that as politicians, as opinion-formers who interfere with this debate, we should be better able to speak this point up. We have to explain that the perfect choice does not exist. And we must also be better at explaining that there are plenty of good educational opportunities today, even if you do not have top grades in all subjects. 64 per cent. of the students admitted in 2018 were admitted to an education with a limit ratio of less than 7. The problem with this rising trend towards a perfection culture among young people is complex. There are no snapshot solutions. However, I think it is certain that the solution is not to turn down the level of education. We must continue to make high demands. It must continue to be okay to have a desire to perform and to have high expectations of students, but we must ensure that our use of grades and the way we record students in higher education does not contribute to this culture of perfection. As politicians, we can be part of the solution, among other things. with the initiatives launched by the government. However, I do not think that this is something we can solve on our own with legislation. It is about a cultural change in our society, where we get better at talking about mistakes and all the imperfections, so that the young people and all of us all realise that no one is perfect and that it is quite okay to fail. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101343	Thank you. There are some questions. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101348	Thank you. I regret that we are challenging the technology in the Chamber when we are both close here because I am asking questions to the Minister for Education and to Mrs Lotte Rod about questions to the Minister for Education. Thank you very much for a very, very good speech. It looks like many long stretches of the motivational speech I gave for this question, so I am very excited that we will get to grips with it. I agree with the Minister that it is very much about how we talk about things, but there is also something about what we are doing politically, what we have introduced and what we must demand in the future. Of course we must have expectations. No one wants to do away with expectations, on the contrary. It's a question of how to live them out. One of the lessons I have learned from the debate in the field of education over the last few years is something that was introduced by the Radical Left, namely the drive reform, the part of the one that is about some solid drive requirements. Now we have achieved faster implementation in universities, and I think it is time to abolish progress reform. What does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101506	I would like to stick to a principle that, for example, when you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you do not have the right to vote in local elections. take a Bachelor's degree at one of our universities, then you complete it in 3 years; that when you take a Master's degree, you complete it in 2 years or at some of the other options. Instead of building more flexibility between these blocks, so to speak, as for example. What we have done with the new agreement on flexible education, in other words, made it possible to stop after your bachelor's degree and be out for a few years, if that is what you need. So I actually think that, as the progress reform stands today, it is as far as the elements that remain of it are concerned, because we have already made it much more flexible, now up to the universities because we have loosened at once to decide how exactly it should be implemented, where it is not centrally decided. And with the new licensing system, I also hope it will be a little more flexible out there at each university to decide how they fix it together; what flexibility they can have out there • because we are now looking at it from an average view that you have to implement on standardized time plus the 3 months; then it is up to them. So I think that with the rules that remain of the original drive reform, it is now as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101610	Then it's Mrs. Mette Reissmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101613	Thank you. Character cannot stand alone. It must be followed by feedback and guidance in order to make sense to most people. Before Christmas, I spoke to the principal of Copenhagen Open High School, Anne-Birgitte Rasmussen, and she told me that due to government savings in high schools and higher education, they had to remove their offer of guidance for the students. Will the government help to eliminate the 2-percent savings which are currently preventing teachers in the country's colleges and higher education from providing the necessary guidance?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101655	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101656	I fully agree that the individual education programmes are challenged by the requirement of re-prioritisation. But that is also why we have said that it cannot go on forever, and that is why it must stop at the end of 2021. And it's up to the individual colleges or individual higher education institutions to decide how they make these savings. I hope, then, that they will do so in such a way that as far as possible it will not go beyond these elements. Because we all agree that counselling is still important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101725	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101728	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his speech. There is one thing I wonder about, and that is that the Minister says there is a need for a change in culture. I agree with that, but I believe that cultural change must come by making changes in legislation. I think there is a lot of legislation in this area that is wrong, for example. The drive reform, the scale of character, the national tests, and I could go on. If cultural change is not to come from in here, where is it to come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101756	Well, I fully agree with Mrs Rosa Lund that it should come from in here too. We just can't do everything. And it comes from in here, by the way, we're starting to talk about this in a different way. We're talking about how you can decide when you start your education. You no longer have to be able to get a bonus by multiplying your rating average. That is why we are beginning to talk about it in a different way. We also say that you can stop 3 years into a university degree, which was otherwise seen as a total 5-year block, and then you can be out and reflect on what you might want to read on your Master's degree and come back So I think that we are doing some of the things that are also sending out some other signals from in here that there should be room for it and that there should also be room for failure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101834	Thank you. And I must say that there is only one comment for each rapporteur. Let's do some practice on this new form. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101843	I would also like to thank the Minister for a very good speech, in which I agree with the issues outlined by the Minister. I would also like to say that the Minister has also acknowledged that there are structures which create this pressure of performance by making some decisions to abolish the character bonus and so on. So I see the Minister as appreciative of the fact that there are structures that need to be changed to remedy this. And following on from what the others have asked, I would like to hear from the Minister: would the Minister agree that there should be free semesters? We have seen students at CBS who are afraid to help each other because of competition about grades.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101929	No, I don't think that's a good idea. I think grades are good, and we also experience places where there have been attempts at it so much in the field of the Minister of Education that when you have tried it, there is still a demand for grades. Because they can do something about showing you where you are professionally. So I don't think there's a good alternative to grades. But by talking about it in a different way and getting rid of that perfection culture, I hope we can help to give more room to help each other too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125101956	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102000	Thank you. I had the pleasure of hearing the Minister's speech on my headphones coming in here. It was a very good speech, and what I thought was best about it was that the Minister did not place himself where the Minister said that it is just the young people who have to solve this themselves. I believe that something is happening inside young people that we have to work with, but I also believe that there are structures that we have to work with and that are pushing young people. And I liked the Minister looking at it that way too. So I actually think I'm going to ask you a very low-practical question now we're going to have a slightly longer debate. It is very good that we are now going to discuss the scale of grades, and I also see this as an opportunity to turn down the pressure on young people, but when will we get to that? When are we going to discuss it, and is it the expectation that we will have to make an agreement before an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102047	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark for a very specific question. Let me answer a little less specifically: we will do that once in the spring, and then you will have to ask the Prime Minister whether it will be before or after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102102	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Minister of Education and Research. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102117	Thank you. Thank you to the Radical Left for calling the Minister for Education and Research and me for this question debate on grades and admission to higher education. There are a number of messages that I would like to start by presenting. Firstly, grades are nothing new in our education system. They've been there for more than 200 years. Secondly, grades to date are the most fair and socially color-blind way of giving access to higher education. Thirdly, there are a great many good higher education courses to choose from, for example. with a cut of 7. And fourthly, it is not harmful for young people or adults to be in a culture of performance. The fact is that we do not have a culture of performance in Denmark; we have a culture of perfection, and it is something quite different, and it is not very good. I would like to go a little further into these four messages. Let me start with the grades themselves and the bad reputation they have gained among many in recent years. Negatively charged expressions such as character race, character tyranny, 12-figure girls appear in one newspaper headline after another. One would almost think that characterization is a new and untested phenomenon, but that is far from the case. The first grade scale was introduced into the Danish education system in 1775, and grades have been used in primary school for about 200 years. At the time, the grades from the semi-annual exams were used when the children's new places in the class were determined. So, fortunately, we have to say that there has been some progress in the Danish education system since then, but the grades have survived, and we and, in particular, the students should be happy about that. Because what would we really do instead? I still have the merit of being presented with a system that is as good as the grades or just as reasonable. Characters are the most effective and fair system for judging knowledge; it is objective and transparent wherever you come from or how many books there are in the home bookshelf. For grades are not based on social background, and grades are color-blind; grades are given simply for the professional level a student is able to perform, and they do not say anything about who you are as a person, i.e. whether you are a good comrade, a good person etc. Characters are often best at providing model breakers with access to the university. This concludes EVA in their analysis of the social profile in the recording system from 2015. A system of education based on meritocratic principles. It's a long word, but it's important. It's the best stepping stone to personal freedom. A well-functioning education system is found in a balance between being a fair sorting mechanism and a space for education, curiosity, experimentation and a safe child and young life. Young people who experience anxiety or safety rarely thrive better by making the requirements that are opaque. On the other hand, transparent structures and clear feedback help to provide security, even if the individual exam can be seen as a challenge. In fact, a mid-term evaluation of a study of grade-free classes in high school shows 81%. students feel insecure when they don't get grades because they don't know what level they are at. When it comes to access to higher education, I believe that an average grade is the most fair and objective way of distributing pupils. In many other countries it is the parents' wallet and network that gets you into the dream study... it's not in Denmark. Whatever happens, no more study places arise from doing it differently, and one should remember to be honest with the young people. But maybe it's also about many young people getting locked up a little too soon on one real way to go. Today it is the case that 76 per cent can be accommodated. of higher education with an average of 7, and that offers a great many opportunities. Perhaps you do not go into the midwife study or political science study, but there are other exciting and good ways to go. In fact, in 2018 462 out of 893 courses were offered without the entry rate. In 2018, all applicants were admitted to both the chemistry and physics studies at all universities in Denmark. These are high-level training courses that can lead to exciting and well-paid jobs in both Denmark and abroad. We will be better able to tell young people this, so that not only very few education courses are in line with the prestige book of young people. This leads me to the damaging performance culture of upper secondary education. I would like to challenge that, in other words, there is a damaging culture of performance. A culture of performance is not harmful, because performance is good, they drive us forward and give us self-esteem. Everyone needs to do something and be recognized for it. On the other hand, we have a damaging culture of perfection among young people. It is not okay to fail or step next to; you should be good at everything; you should hit the spot every time in the first attempt, no matter what you do. You have to look good, have many friends, and you fear that the world will end if not all succeed at the same time. It is an unhealthy culture, and we must do away with it. We can properly start with ourselves, the adults, because we must also stop talking about performance and grades as something dangerous and bad and instead show young people that the world is full of opportunities. There are, in fact, many other ways to go than International Business at CBS or the medical study at the University of Copenhagen. In your query, you focus on characters as opposed to curiosity and learning. I do not think that it can be set up as two things that are in conflict with each other. However, I would like to conclude by saying that it is of course important that we have an education system that focuses on something other than what we need to learn, including on grades. When we get to talk so much about grades, it's because some of you want to do away with them. We need an educational system that focuses on formation, on culture, on professionalism, on science, and where the joy of performing is considered something good, whether it is breaking the second-class reading code or perhaps learning Greek grammar at the university, writing and reading a poem in the fifth grade or handing in a creative task at hhx. There must be room for both professionalism and good children's and young people's lives, and the education system must be fair. Therefore, we should not have an educational system in which professionalism and transparency are replaced by a system in which your opportunities may be determined by your personality or perhaps even by your attitudes. Characters are fair and color-blind, and therefore the center-left storm on them is worrying. It is a social responsibility to create a good framework for the education system and youth culture. We agree on this, but there are nuances in it, we must say what we are focusing on in this respect. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102855	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102859	Thanks for the speech. Now we have a long debate ahead of us, where we will have the opportunity to discuss many issues, and we will also be allowed to ask the Minister questions again, so I really think I will start by asking a rather open question to the Minister, which I have been thinking about a lot. Now I have heard the Minister talk a lot about this culture of perfection, and what worries me when I hear the Minister speak is that it sounds a lot to the Minister, as if the culture of perfection is something that young people themselves have to deal with and that at least there is nothing we can do from the political point of view other than tell them that it is going to be okay. I just want to know if the Minister thinks there's something in our system that will help young people get this perfection urge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125102944	I am very pleased with that question, because I have never said that young people should be left alone with it, quite the opposite. When I gave my first interview on the perfection culture in the summer in Altinget it's a very long interview and it can still be found if you can read it I say exactly that it is adult responsibility that has become too little. Now I'm out of time, but I can say a lot about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103009	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103012	I would also like to thank you for a fine speech in which I do not entirely agree with everything. However, as far as the perfection culture is concerned, I would like to hear specifically from the Minister whether the Minister recognises the researchers who say that the culture of performance creates young people who are miserable and have self-esteem problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103034	No, I do not agree that performance is bad. I simply do not. I think going to school is one long achievement. It is a huge achievement, for example. I do not see how you can disagree with it. It is an achievement the first time you stand up for the class and present a poem or text; it is an achievement and it is good. What can push children and young people is if we adults have too diffuse demands and do not lift our share of responsibility. So when I think that young people are being put under pressure in general, it is because adults, and it is my generation and the rapporteur's generation, take far too little responsibility on us, leaving too much to children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103124	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103127	Now we hear again from the Minister for Education that there is no problem at all with performance culture in Denmark. The minister doesn't think we have a sick performance culture, but research from the Center for Youth Research shows that when high school students today raise their hands, they don't do it to participate, or because they're curious, they do it to perform and show the teacher that they're good to get a good character. Doesn't the Minister think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103157	I think there are problems, and I get a little tired when you put words in your mouth, as you never said. We can have a much better debate here in Parliament if we start by saying what we know each other have said. And it can't be difficult for the Radical Left to find something that I have said, which one disagrees with there must be plenty to take off. I haven't said anything about there being no problems. There are plenty of problems for children and young people. They live in a culture of perfection, where adults make great and imperceptible demands on them and make too little of the responsibility. Let's just take one thing like sleep. According to research, sleep is one of the biggest problems for children and young people living in, you can say, ordinary, well-functioning homes. That's a huge problem. That has not been mentioned at all so far. There are a lot of young people sleeping with their cell phones under the pillow and being awakened during the night. It destroys sleep and thus also the day and the teaching. That's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103256	Thank you. Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103258	What the Minister said in her speech was that she accused the centre-left of making storms on the grades. Who is the Minister specifically thinking about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103312	I do not think there is any reason to make such a roll call. But it is a lot in the debate that grades should pose some problem in themselves, and that we should have less of that we should have fewer tests, fewer grades, because that is what is pressing. If we look at it historically or geographically, it is the case that we do not have an educational system with an enormous number of tests and grades, either historically or geographically, in relation to other countries. Therefore, I only dispute the hypothesis that it should be the incidence of grades that cause the young people to experience pressure. In fact, I think that the adult responsibility that you have is more disclaimed in order to look at what is really making young people fear and uneasy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103401	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103403	Thank you. As the Minister of Education knows, I am very concerned about what the character system means to our young people. However, I would like to use this question to ask the Minister something else, namely the culture of performance. I therefore agree with the Minister that it is not bad to perform, but does the Minister not recognise that it should not be the case that one has to perform one hundred per cent of the time, because that is the culture we have created, that is to say that young people and probably many adults also believe that one hundred per cent of oneself should be the best version of one hundred per cent of the time, and nobody can do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103441	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103442	Yes, we are very much in agreement here. And that's exactly what the perfection culture is all about, that is, everything must be good and well functioning all the time. It doesn't work that way. Sometimes you write a job and have misunderstood the subject, or you don't do very well because something has happened that has knocked you out of it. We must not do all the time if we are between education and training, which is why I am really glad that we have removed this quick bonus. Because when young people are between education, we should not be sitting in here interfering in whether they are moving into collective or doing something that is not very streamlined. They must be allowed to do so, and there must be plenty of periods in life where you do not perform, plenty of times when you do not perform. But being in a school and taking an education are all about getting better. It acts among other things. I think it is wrong to talk about the fact that something is actually being done down, because that is what you are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103541	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the Minister in this round. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125103553	Thank you for that, President. Many young people in Denmark feel bad. I think it's some of what hurts really bad. When we look at the time we live in now, things are going very well in many ways, but when we look at our generation of young people, there are scary many who go down with the flag and who are not well. At the same time, we are also using our harmful performance culture to stifle some of the things that I love most in Denmark, namely that our education is based on not just being able to memorize things and go up and put the intersections right in a test, but that we train young people to think independently and think critically. That is also what we must make a living on in the future. Surely none of you are sitting in here today who imagines that what is going to make a difference for Denmark is that the young people just can do the same as us. They must dare to be critical and think new, because that is what makes progress. That is why we want to raise this debate today, and I think there are several things that are worth diving into. Firstly, we know from research that more than half of young people are under pressure. Already in the eighth grade, more than half of the young people who care about their education care about the future are concerned about not wanting to strike. We know that from the Children's Council. Secondly, we also know that when high school students today raise their hands, they do not do so because they are curious because they want to take part in the teaching, but they do so in order to perform and to show the teacher that they have the right answer. We know that from the Center for Youth Research. Today, when we have been asking students what is pushing them, they are replying: it is the character race, it is the progress reform, it is the education ceiling. These are things for which we, as politicians, are responsible and which we can do something about. That is why I also find it sad that we have a minister of education who is again using her speaking time to say that she does not believe that there is a problem with a culture of achievement. The Minister for Education has also been directly contradicting the study from the Children's Council. Although the study shows that it is the pressure from education and whether one strikes the problem, the Minister for Education has written in Politiken that it is not about the school at all, but that the problem is that adults overprotect young people, that the problem is that parents are divorced and that young people care about the climate. Today we have also heard that the problem is a lack of sleep. As a result, the Minister of Education is moving the problem away from what is at stake, namely that it is our culture of performance that is the problem and for which we must take responsibility. Nor can I fail to be concerned that the Minister of Education, with his statements, is helping to hold onto the problem, because it sends out a message to young people that they themselves bear a share of the blame, rather than that we, as politicians, can set up an educational system which is not based in this way on a damaging culture of performance. Today, we hear from the Minister for Education and Research that he shares the analysis that there is a need for more space to make mistakes and try things out, and that we do not have to be judged all the time. It makes me optimistic that the Minister is very much in the same place as us. That is why I think what is interesting to talk about with the Minister for Education and Research is what we do about it. In addition to the points raised by the Minister himself, we also have a task to do away with the second bonus scheme, which the Minister did not talk about, with the reform of the momentum and with the ceiling on training. Because when so many young people in the eighth grade are already worried, this is because they are afraid that the decision they make there will be decisive for the rest of their lives. So for us in the Radical Left, this is about making a fight with culture and putting in all the places where we can give more space to think creatively and wildly and make mistakes, instead of constantly being judged. That is why we need to look at the national tests, the assessment of qualifications, the freedom of character in youth education, the quota 2 system, the reform of progress and the ceiling on training. And I hope that we can gather support for this in the Folketing, because this is so serious. We have a whole generation that needs us not only to say that it is their own fault, but that we take responsibility here in the Folketing. I shall read out a proposal for adoption. It is from the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, SF and us in the Radical Left, and this is how it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an unhealthy culture of performance has emerged in the educational system, which contributes to increasing stress and pressure on young people. Already in the eighth grade, a majority experience performance pressure from school and society. Young people care about the future and fear not to strike. The performance culture hits what we love very much in Denmark: that we train young people to think independently and critically. For an unhealthy performance culture, education is not about being curious, asking questions and becoming smarter, but about performing and getting good grades. The reasons for the emergence of the performance culture are many. Political action is needed. An important part is that grades should not be left alone. The Danish Parliament therefore notes that there is a need first of all to stop the savings on education, which means, among other things, that there is less time for feedback and good teaching. • V 55).
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104233	Thank you. Then there are some questions. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104237	Thanks for the presentation. The Radical Left is, after all, a party which is very internationally oriented and places great emphasis on international affairs, and my question has this particular international dimension. Because I would like to see Mrs Lotte Rod elaborate on how she imagines that Danish students will be able to cope abroad. The motive for my question is that the set of values that we have just heard presented here from the parliamentary platform, there are no good universities anywhere in the world that recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104317	What is important to us is that there should be a culture in our education system where you have time to try things out, think new, make mistakes before you are judged. It is not the case that I am saying that there should be no grades at all, because it makes sense that we should also be judged. The problem is, as we heard a man from high school say, right now our high school students are rated 150 times in the three years they go to high school. Then there's not a hell of a lot of time to make mistakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104355	Let's not say the dull ones. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104400	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am glad that in the broad lines we share some of the same concerns about the culture of perfection, about the need for more room for innovative thinking and for flexibility. Flexibility is, of course, very much the foundation of many of the measures we have taken. Now the Minister mentioned some of the measures we are looking at: the scale of character, the speedy start-up bonus, the recording system, and it is all measures that address this concern. I am glad of that, and I believe that there is broad support and that makes me wonder. Now it is the Radical Left that has called for this debate. Why did the Radical Left itself not address these issues when the Radicals themselves sat in the government up to 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104450	We've done the same. We have also looked at a number of things, but I just think that our analysis is that when we look beyond the education world now, it is here with the performance culture that has got worse and worse. So, there are so many young people now who feel pressured over the grades that we need to take more steps on the political side. Then we've gotten smarter too. After all, on the part relating to the progress reform, we wanted young people to undertake their studies at the time of the study. That is what we have achieved, and that is why we are saying today that there is no reason why we should stick to a system that pushes young people unnecessarily when we have actually achieved the result we would like to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104539	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104541	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod describes the behaviour of young people, and she describes that many young people have some concerns and feel a lot of expectations about what to do and what to do. What worries me is if Mrs Lotte Rod like to limit it to saying that it is about the things we do in here, that is, the rules that are in the education system. Well, we can do something; we can look at the characters, we can look at the recording systems, etc. But is it not the central problem in relation to young people's expectations of themselves that they are created in interaction with other young people, and to a large extent with young people's parents? And that means our generation and our signals to them in the ordinary community. And is that something we can control from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104628	I believe that things are connected, and I believe that as politicians we have a special task, because it is we who have created the system of grades. We are the ones who have brought down the qualification assessment into the eighth grade, which means that young people are now being assessed earlier. So, in this way, the political decisions we make in here have an impact on the culture that is out there, and that is why, as politicians, we can also take the lead in saying: if we want to have the cultural change so that we can try things out, make mistakes before we are judged, then we as politicians must also take the lead in creating that change, so that they have a chance at doing it at all in schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104710	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104713	Thank you. Maybe it's just to follow up on Mr. Marcu Knuth's question, and I'd like to ask it a little more forward-looking. I just want to hear from the radical rapporteur whether Enhedslisten can count on the fact that if the majority changes after a choice, then we will abolish the progress reform, then we will remove the 8th class education readiness assessment and abolish the crazy bonus rules that remain in our youth education programmes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104742	We want to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104800	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to say that I feel a little bit that we are counting on you to make only one comment now. So you haven't. You actually have two and only one for the minister. I could, like, feel that you thought you could only make one comment. We were just discussing it up here, but then I thought we should finish this series of rapporteurs, and then I'll say it. And then I'm actually gonna make sure that in future, until we're all in this new form, every question of this kind just gets it all read out about what it's like, so all the rapporteurs are aware of how it works, so until we're all right. We must stop the culture of perfection! Then it's Mrs. Mette Reissmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125104825	Thank you. How many 12s do you have to score before you're happy? And how many likes should you have on Instagram before you feel recognized? And how important is it that you know exactly what to do with the rest of your life when you finish elementary school? These are big questions for a lot of young people today, and the answer is unknown. But what we know is that every four women and every eight men between the ages of 16 and 24 have poor mental health, and this is a development that has exploded over the past few years. The harmful performance culture has many reasons and there are no simple solutions. But one of them is about the way we set up our education system. I would say that grades are basically an important part of our education system, but it is untenable when you as a young person are satisfied with yourself only if you get top marks and are of the opinion that it is necessary to have a good life. So it's all about the whole culture of the young people... being in the perfect way. And the success criteria that young people themselves are setting up, but which society is also running for, are hard to achieve. And then you have to ask yourself: do young people necessarily have to live up to the ideals of society in order to achieve personal success? No, of course they shouldn't. I am therefore pleased that the Radical Left has raised this debate today on the harmful culture of performance, because it is important to discuss it. For what are top achievements worth if the joy does not come with? It must be a political priority to look after the next generation, both young women and young men. They are the ones who must carry on our welfare societies. They are the future of Denmark, and that is why we must take it seriously. And now I hope the Minister of Education listens very carefully because grades are better than their reputation. Social democracy believes that they must survive, but they cannot stand alone. They must be followed by feedback and guidance. Characters have a simplicity which makes it easy to compare; it also makes it easy to debate; it makes it easy to nationalise; it also makes it easy to take them abroad if you want to pursue a training abroad of shorter or longer durations. At the same time, characterization is also a time-efficient tool, and it is also a concrete tool used by teachers. In fact, in some cases, students and students are also calling for concrete feedback on their efforts and levels. At the same time, however, we also know that a one-sided focus on grades is bad and that it is problematic for the learning culture as well as for students' well-being, motivation and independence, and there is also a risk that the competence development that we all want to have will become the number of students simply because of one-sided focus on grades and that feedback and guidance will not follow. So characterization and assessment forms are thus faced with dilemmas and with challenges, both for the individual and for the educational system in general. admission requirements for our higher education, narrow learning approaches for both teachers and pupils, and demotivation of pupils who do not perform well. And it is unhealthy that young people do not dare raise their hands until they are sure they have the right answer. So we in the Social Democratic Party are also willing to discuss any changes in the light of the current evaluation of the scale of character proposed by the government. I would say, then, that mild competition in strong communities is good. Competition can contribute to the development of the Community and its commitment. That is why we need to invest in strong communities from primary school all the way up through our education programmes. It is also important that we balance it all the time, of course, so that feedback and guidance are included. The government simply cannot be aware of maintaining its 2-percent savings on education, so that we see that guidance and feedback go into oblivion. That re-priority contribution is a disaster in itself. The quality of education suffers, but it also affects those educational institutions which have removed their offer of guidance and feedback. The damaging performance culture is not only devastating for the lives of the individual young person, it is also devastating for our society. If we do not do something from in here and take responsibility, we will have a workforce that is under pressure, stressed and psychologically vulnerable, and we simply cannot accept that. We must not allow an entire generation to suffer under a failed austerity policy which the government disguises as education policy. The government's reduction in our education system will have long-term consequences: we will have fewer skilled researchers, nurses and educators. There must be time and advice for the student counsellors and teachers to have an extra talk with those students who do not know where they are going, feel pressured or need help with task management. Only in this way will we ensure that boys with an eating disorder, girls with stress or students who get pressure on their chests every time they get a job back get through our youth education as whole people. It is a responsibility that we must shoulder together and social democracy is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105353	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105356	Thank you. A very important demand for the Social Democratic Party historically, too, can be seen when you read biographies about major executives in the Social Democratic Party have been meritoc, because the most effective way to break the social path was for meritocracy, and therefore the workers' movement put great emphasis on being industrious and on coming forward in society by means of its merites. Against this background, I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify something: what is today the fundamental position of the Social Democratic Party on meritocracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105431	It's the same as it's been all along. As far back as 1944 Stauning formulated that Denmark is the hardworking people, and he placed among others. I would also like to stress the clarification made by Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl is addressing us now, namely the importance that we actually maintain that it must be worthwhile to make an effort. It must also be worthwhile to be able to see that you are improving, but it must be done under a certain framework, so as to preserve the well-being and security. And that is simply not possible from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party now in an educational system which is being cut down as sharply as Mr. Henrik Dahl's party is a part of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105509	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105510	It was a super presentation for my follow-up question. Indeed, I can hear that Mrs Mette Reissmann, as other Socialist rapporteurs, is very, very critical of the re-prioritisation contribution, and that is why I would like to know whether the Social Democrats can guarantee that any social democratic government will bring the level of funding back to its level in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105534	I'll answer Mr. Henrik Dahl, whom I have answered, every time I am asked the question: if, in the event that we have the opportunity to lead a government after the next parliamentary elections, the Social Democracy will stop the savings on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105549	Then there are no more questions for this rapporteur. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125105608	When is a performance culture harmful? Isn't it a good thing that we all have to do? I think that all of us who are here today would like to do well. I think it is good and necessary for our education system to perform; we are expected to do so. Try to think of an educational system based on a culture where students and students were not required to perform. We have just received an evaluation of the teacher's education, where, for me, the most worrying result was that there was too low a level of ambition among both students and teachers. It certainly does not point to excessive focus on performance and grades. At professional colleges, you can also see that the dropout is increasing for those who come in with high grades, which for me points out that there are students who are not met with high enough requirements to perform. I really want students and students to be driven by curiosity and desire for learning, and it can worry me that I experience a tendency for many in higher education to perceive themselves as pupils and not as students. It is worrying when, in higher education, you have to consider measures such as meeting obligations to train students to become students. I fully agree that some of the measures that we have taken from in here in connection with, for example, The drive reform has helped to set a framework that supports a perception of being a student rather than a student. Similarly, the scale of characters also influences how we act. Yesterday I was with high school teachers who had the experience that high school students had become more reluctant to say anything after we had had the 12-scale introduced, because its focus on errors was perceived as having your 12-figure until you made a mistake, unlike the old scale, where the experience was that everything really counted as plus, and it didn't draw directly from if you got to say something wrong. That is to say, it motivated an attempt. I do not think that the scale of character or any other individual action is to blame, but overall it paints a picture of a framework which, together with the general development of society, presents some challenges for our young people. Because how do we raise our kids? What example are we showing them? I recognize the description of curling parents in my own house. If I can remove the stones from my children's path, I may be inclined to do so, and the stones on my way may not tell the children about. So how are they to relate to the stones that come on their way? This may give rise to the need to introduce compulsory meetings and to have schedules and a clear framework. But how are young people to develop into real students driven by the urge to learn? I think there are a lot of elements in the game. Much is about how we as parents affect our children, but there are also elements in our framework that we can work with. I think we should definitely continue with grades. Overall, this is the best indicator we have for the abilities of children and young people, but we should create a scale that better supports what we would like to have a scale that supports the innovative and curious rather than a zero error culture. Then we will also have to work on the recording systems. At the time, the Quality Committee proposed a system which looked away from grades over 7 and instead recorded on the basis of conversations, tests and the like, and there is good experience in several places working with admissions as a combination of characters and tests. The challenge is to find a system that is still motivated to make good efforts and thus strive for the better grades, while at the same time the admission system aims to get young people into the right education rather than to apply to the education where the demand is an average of 12, just because they have now got 12 on average and therefore have the opportunity to apply to that education. Summa summarum I agree that there are challenges in our education system and with the performance culture that we need to work with. I also believe that we are discussing the key points so that we can do something about it, such as the scale of character and recording systems. At the same time, however, there is a need for a broader discussion in society of many elements, including: digitization. It plays a very important role in our culture and in our way of raising expectations both for ourselves and for others. So many thanks to the Radicals for raising the debate. This is an important and much, much wider debate than the one we can have here today. Then I have a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament is concerned that students and students in the Danish education system learn as much as possible and that there is a good framework for professionalism and curiosity. Characters are good and both a simple, objective and also socially fair way of judging. At the same time, it is important to counteract character races that contribute to an unhealthy culture among young people. In this connection, the Danish Parliament notes that the agreement on more flexible university courses has agreed among all parties in the Danish Parliament to abolish the early start bonus scheme (1,08 rule), so that the grades reflect professionalism and skill and not speed. The Danish Parliament further notes that the Government will present proposals for adjustments to the admission system and the scale of characters. V 56).
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110128	Thank you. Like the previous proposal for adoption, this proposal is also included in the further discussions. Then there are some questions. Mrs. Lotte Rod, Radical Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110142	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for a good speech. It is thus thought-provoking in this debate that the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left are more in agreement than we are with the Liberal Alliance, so that makes me a little happy. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is what the rapporteur thinks about this: we now know that high school students raise their hands, not because they are curious and want to contribute, but because they want to show the teacher that they have the right answer so that they can have a good character.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110216	I think that this description fits in very well with what I heard from the high school teacher yesterday, namely that the fear of making mistakes and thus having a lower character makes one fail to say anything. That is exactly what the challenge is. And of course we have to work on that, and you have to work on that out there, that is, the students say what they want and what they need to say. So I think that there is something in the scale of characters, but also in the ordinary culture, when it comes to dare to say something. I just don't think it's in the rules we've made from in here that you're afraid to say anything in high school to get a worse grade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110257	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110259	But what does the rapporteur think about the fact that, as high school is today, we are getting as many grades as we are doing? Most recently, I've heard this about being judged 150 times over the three years you go to high school. Does the rapporteur agree with me that if we gave some longer periods of opportunity to raise your hand, ask questions, make mistakes along the way before you were judged, then it would probably lead to a culture where more people dared be curious and make mistakes? Or does the rapporteur think that it has nothing to say about the grades in high schools; the only thing that is interesting is to look at the admission system for higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110346	Well, I think you're judged every single day. If you show up and you're in class and the teacher is there, you're judged by what you do. Then I'll think that it's actually quite good that you keep getting grades, because then you have a point on where you are. And then, of course, you have to have a culture around the discussion of those characters. But to me, the best tool you can give to young people is actually to give them the assessment and tell them where they stand, so they have an opportunity to work on getting better, because that's why they're there. It's to learn something, it's to get better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110417	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110422	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl has spoken a lot over the last few days about the 13-scale. Now we are discussing harmful performance and character pressures today, and I can listen to Mr Tugendhat. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, that he himself is also worried about exactly that. So my question is: how does the rapporteur think this harmful performance pressure will be reduced by introducing a scale which adds another top step? So, are we not going to see even more harmful performance pressures among young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110504	No, I think it's gonna be exactly the other way around. In fact, I believe that the approach that was in the 13 scale, and which would lie if we reinstate it, gave the motivation to come up with something special, the motivation to say something. I mean, I've lived under the 13 scale myself when I went to school in his time, and my experience is that what it was all about was trying to say something, trying to come up with some good ideas, because it helped count up. The worst thing I could do was not to say anything, not to try anything. So no, I'm not buying that. In fact, I believe that to the extent that one can talk about a scale of characters having an effect on the culture we have, the 13 scale will have a positive effect on the culture we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110547	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110549	I agree with you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl refers to the culture of our generation. I have experienced the same experience myself, but I do not think it can be said that there is a direct causality between the 13 scale and the culture under which we lived. But let it be, we are discussing this in the near future, I assume. I have a new question. The rapporteur is also concerned about the fact that high school students do not dare raise their hands, and I share that concern. But how are we going to work on this, in other words, change the specific culture in high schools? The Danish People's Party supports the government's 2-percent savings. We also know from high schools that teachers are currently being fired and that guidance opportunities have already been reduced, and feedback is also just a word used in the old days. How, then, does the Danish People's Party feel that it should be possible to resolve this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110641	In fact, we believe that you can work with a lot of things within the framework you have out there. We are very pleased that the re-priority contribution will disappear from 2022. And you can say that there are some frameworks that actually make it possible, I think that working quite well with learning, that is, you have plenty of opportunities to make it work out there. So it's just getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110703	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110707	Thank you. With all due respect, I think we have a completely different school today than when the rapporteur and I went to school and hoped to get a 13-figure at times. As the rapporteur has already said, I think it can be difficult to use the experience we have from then on. In this context, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not a matter of concern to the rapporteur that there is talk of increasing academia in the primary school. We must learn the word intertextuality and what it means, in second grade, that in primary school, for example. work with problem formulations, which were almost first done at the university in the past. Can it not worry the rapporteur, and can it not help to create some performance anxiety or at least some pressure on children that they should be able to do such things so early?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110808	Yeah, I'm wondering if I know that word at all, but I haven't been in second grade today either. And I doubt that this is the kind of demand that is being made. What we do, I think, work really hard at, is to create a primary school that actually teaches children something, and if that is the word that you have to learn in second grade, it may well be that we have to discuss whether you should learn exactly that word. I don't know if you can talk about academy. After all, we are very much discussing how to actually get much more practicalism into primary school, how to ensure that you can actually accommodate all children, and can ensure that they are not just motivated to go the academic way, but are very much motivated to also go a more practical way. If there are signs of the other, and if the rapporteur has clear signs of it, then we must discuss it, but I do not think that is the way our primary school is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110900	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110904	The two examples I mentioned are from the schooling of my two sons. One in the second class where he had about intertextuality and had to work with it, and my other son, who was going to work with problem phrases, however, I think, from some wrong understandings, but at least they had to do so in the eighth grade. So these are two specific examples I have experienced myself. There are researchers who have looked at teaching aids in Danish education and found that our children are being educated as white-collar workers, and that is a problem if we want to get more into vocational education and if we have some young people who break their necks already in 3-4th grade, because they have to learn some things that you really only need if you go to high school or you have to do research in Danish or in mathematics later on in life. So will the rapporteur help to look at these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125110957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111000	Well, I think it's very much about the choices you as a teacher make out in school and the things you ask the kids for. I don't know elementary school that much in detail. I do not have children who go there today, so I do not know what demands are being made right now. I know the purpose of the primary school, and I do not think that it sounds as if the teachers fully meet the demands of today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111023	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions to this rapporteur. In other words, it is now Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111033	Thank you, President. In the Left, we are concerned with a development in which an unintended culture of perfection seems to influence our youth. It is a culture that we see at both the gymnasium level and the level of further education, but also in society in general. A zero-fault and perfection culture puts a wrong pressure on students in my view, and that is why some students often choose the task which they know can ensure a flawless task-solving and which can thus also ensure a high character, and therefore it also limits their curiosity, their development, their innovation, because they choose the safe path. I am sorry to say that I believe that this is one of the main points. because the scale of character we use focuses too much on shortcomings instead of focusing on what is good and original. In the Left, we want a culture of study where young people dare take chances, where they dare challenge themselves and where mistakes are part of the learning process itself. If students succeed in creating something extraordinary that goes beyond the framework, it must of course also be rewarded. That is why I share in part the pleasure of the Danish People's Party for the 13-scale. I do not agree that it is perfect, but I think the 13s had something unique, precisely because one could reward the extraordinary. In other words, the extraordinary should not be tied up to the number of errors, but more to the extent that the student has challenged and dared challenge himself. But the search for the perfect and flawless is, unfortunately, a general trend in our society, and I would say that I agree in part with Mrs Mette Reissmann in relation to the part of society where people hunt likes on Instagram on Facebook, because it must all be as perfect as possible. I therefore think that we need to do more to tell young people that there are other parameters during the study that, together with the grades, and I emphasise with the grades, because the grades are I think that study jobs, a stay abroad, volunteering work, other such things can give a better insight into how the world is connected outside the study books, and that gives just a better overall impression. For the same reason, we also remove the speed bonus, this 1.08 bonus, from high school to higher education. I myself spent three years between high school and university - six months in Germany, two years in Defence and six months in Africa - and what I learned about language, management and culture is something that benefits me to this day, and I would not have liked to have been without it. It may not fit perfectly into the perfection culture where you have to go straight through, but it was something I was happy about. That is not to say that everyone should do it, because others can benefit greatly from going directly from high school to higher education, but I and others were very happy about it. In addition, we have now established, with broad support from the room, that you also have a three-year legal requirement to be able to work after your bachelor's degree before going to your superstructure. So did I. You may eventually conclude that I have taken my time through my study programme and worked with it, and that has once been what I have been happy about. This also applies to our new one-year superstructure, which in turn also emphasises more flexibility. But let me make it clear that grades are not superfluous, grades are central, but we just have to make sure that grades are given in a way so that there is room for the extraordinary, so that there is room for innovative thinking and so that it is not all about a zero error culture. So I look forward to discussing how to adjust our current seven-step scale and how we also look, as the Minister has said, at criteria for admission, so that in future we have an education system that promotes curiosity, innovative thinking and excellence. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111442	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111452	Thank you. I believe that one of the things that today can put young people under stress and make them feel pressured is that some unclear and contradictory demands are being made on them. I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth says that volunteering can be very good, and I also agree that it may be very good to have a student job next to your education, but how does it relate to meeting a very rigid progress reform and very strict requirements? It is, after all, a bit counter-productive to make, so is it not time that the Left, like the Left, took the consequence of what is being said here and abolished the drive-through reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111530	I think this is a balancing act, and now that we have an objective to achieve at the prescribed time or at the time set aside, that is, of course, the objective. So there are a lot of students who do that in a very, very good way, at the same time as they work. I do not see it in any way as a contradiction. Of course, there must be room for a stay abroad and that you can transfer credit etc., but there must still be an expectation that you will be able to do so on time, as long as it makes sense. I do not think that is a contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111606	Thank you. It is just that what the students say is that they find it very difficult to meet both the requirements of the progress reform and then also have time for a study job and time to work voluntarily. But let it go. I would like to ask you something else that the rapporteur mentioned or, to put it bluntly, did not mention. We talked about the top of the scale, but let's try to talk about the bottom. Are we really thinking in the Left that they learn something from being graded -3 in primary, secondary, university and vocational schools? I mean, you're negative with something. Is it a good thing for your motivation and learning, or is it a bad thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111644	On the whole, I am very pleased that we are having a discussion on the scale of characters because, as I said, it does not provide any room for rewarding the extraordinary. I also see some very inappropriate jumps in both the middle of the scale, between 4.7 and 10, but also at the bottom of the scale. But exactly how we are going to shape the future scale, I think we should take the debate that is coming this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111705	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Reissmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111711	Thank you. The rapporteur said that grades were a good, objective measuring tool. I share that view. In fact, I also share what the rapporteur added, namely that grades cannot stand alone, but in order to ensure that young people are placed in a position so that they can choose for themselves the best possible career choice was the term used by the rapporteur to combine grades with guidance at least. I assume that is what the rapporteur was talking about. Here's the question: How can Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Left see that sustainable guidance and feedback can be offered so that we achieve the common goal when Mr. Marcus Knuth is a member of a party that cuts youth education and higher education so sharply?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111800	Firstly, in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution, to which I assume the rapporteur refers, I think it sounds rather hollow when Mr. Henrik Dahl has just asked whether the Social Democracy will lead it back to the same level as in the past. There was no answer to that, so I think that attack is a little hollow. If the rapporteur had replied differently, it would have been different, but since the rapporteur has no intention of rewinding things, it is easy enough to put the burden on our shoulders and then take the prize if you win the government. In relation to the specific question: of course there must be guidance, there is also a long way along the way. It depends entirely on whether guidance is meant during the year or whether it is guidance up to the final grades. What I think is more important is what the Minister is proposing in relation to the criteria for admission, namely to look at whether it should only be the grades, or in some cases it can also include something where there may be different questions that are included in the assessment of the pupil, so that it is not only the character. This is very much done abroad. I am not saying that we should do this like some other countries, but I think that a more objective assessment is something worth taking a look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111904	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125111908	In relation to the savings made by the government in terms of the 2% re-priority contribution, I would just like to say that it seems to me as if Mr. Marcus Knuth denies the fact, precisely the fact that we hear from the educational institutions, that they must fire counsellors and, incidentally, teachers who should have provided the feedback and guidance needed to achieve the goal that young people are more comforted in their desires for career choices. Sir. After all, Marcus Knuth always likes to tell himself about his merits. It may be entertaining for those who have not heard it before, but I would certainly like to say that the problem is many times that young people are prevented from making similar choices and perhaps even making some re-elections. In concrete terms, Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Left help to remove the educational ceiling in the near future in order to take some of the performance pressure from the young people's shoulders?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112003	Now I think we should be careful that there's not too much jante law in this one. I think it is important that politicians can reflect their decisions and their judgements on some of the experiences they have. The fact that I say that I worked for 3 years between high school and university, I just think that I can say that this is something that makes me back up some of the changes we have here. The same applies to working between bachelor and candidate levels. But let me leave it there. In relation to the training ceiling, it has nothing to do with the scale of character that we are about to assess here. It is, of course, once again to mix things up completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112041	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112045	What's sir? Marcus Knuth's view that it is more than half the students in the eighth grade who are under pressure, and what they are under pressure, is the school and the fear of failing in their educational choices?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112100	I think that is one of the examples we are hearing, which led me to say that I am glad that the Radicals are taking this debate because I think we share many of the concerns that exist. My focus, I must say, is on higher education and not at primary or primary school. But it's a reflection that's through the system, and that's exactly why we have to look at what it's like to judge our students or our students, regardless of the level they're at. Of course, there must be a demand for performance, but it should not be a system of perfection where there is such pressure on students that they get stress that they get worried and experience some of the situations described by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112148	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112150	Just to understand this: is the rapporteur alone concerned with changing grades, or how often grades are given? When I ask that, because what we also know from research, it is here with the high school students who raise their hands to get a good character, and not because they really want to ask a curious question or try something. Does the rapporteur think that it is a problem that they do not raise their hands because they are curious? And what do we do about it? Is it alone just changing the grades, or is it also cleaning up that they shouldn't have grades so often?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112226	I believe that what goes on over and over again for the majority of people knows the speeches we are hearing today is that this is a culture as a whole that we must do something about. Of course, the current scale of character is part of it, but it is much deeper than that. I also believe that it goes deeper than the number of times you get a character. I see nothing wrong with the fact that you are being judged on an ongoing basis throughout the year and get grades for individual tasks, etc. I do not think that is necessarily the problem. But it's the whole culture you have to make up, it's this zero error culture, and it's not as easy as just changing a grade scale or the number of ratings. It is a showdown that we must take with the culture as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112307	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for this rapporteur. We're moving on, and that's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112323	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Radicals for having called this debate on this extremely important subject, which is also very important to us in the Enhedslisten. Before the debate here, I have taken the liberty of talking to some young people about what they think about stress and pressure in the education system. I would like to refer to that in this Chamber today. One has said to me: I would like to read psychology, I have never been in the low end of the scale, but I was already in the 6th-7th grade and had a stomach ache and wondered if I could now get in. Another said: I know that there are some people who are motivated by competition, but the vast majority I know are never satisfied and always run on themselves instead. A third said: Throughout my school hours I have been in school environments where there has been a huge character race; even when I was in the 4th-5th grade, there was a competition between the girls about who got the best character. She also said: characters can often be equal to poor self-esteem if you e.g. have difficulty in some subjects and constantly compare themselves with others. These quotes come from primary school pupils, i.e. primary school students. I think it's very early to have a stomach ache about how you do, especially how you do in relation to others. I believe and we believe in the Enhedslisten that grades help create stress and pressure among young people. Characters are one of the reasons why too many children and young people are hurting in their lives. That is why I think it has been quite disheartening to hear the two ministers present in the Chamber today proposing solutions to these problems. The Minister for Education, who I think otherwise talks about an adult present, disclaims all responsibility and says that it is about the use of mobile phones and iPads that it is about the parents not being their responsibility grown up. The Minister for Education and Research says that the solution is simply to introduce some more steps on the scale of character we already know today. But neither of the two ministers' proposals really solve the problem of the stress of children and young people, in fact not at all. We therefore need far more radical changes to our education system if we are to put an end to this stress and pressure epidemic, to the performance society or to the culture of perfection, which I understand the Minister of Education prefers to call it a system error. It is a mistake embedded in the way we have arranged our education system and to which the changes that have been in the education system for the last 10 years have only pushed. We talked about some of them today. We must create an education system with the community in focus, a training system with class comrades competitors We must teach young people to say "we" instead of "I" and therefore we must have a training system with fewer competitive elements. One way to eliminate a competitive element is to remove all the grades in the education system. Instead of grades, we must judge young people on what they can do and focus on how they develop and what they can do better. We do this by giving students and students feedback and opinions on all tasks. For example, every time they solve a task or do a project, they must have concrete instructions on what they have done well, how they can develop and what they can do better. For grades are backward-looking, they only focus on errors, and they do not help individual young people's development. Feedback, on the other hand, looks forward and helps students to improve. I believe that we must dare to make demands on our young people, while at the same time not stress and pressure them by putting them in a virtually chronic competitive situation from the start of first class. The time has come, I believe, for the two ministers who are present in the Chamber today to learn from their mistakes and recognise that fundamental changes are needed if we want to address the problem that young people are feeling worse and worse, and instead of giving the two ministers a failing character or a character with a minus, I just want to give a little positive feedback. Let us now put an end to some of the systems that are pushing young people so hard, let us abolish the educational ceiling, let us remove the focus on character, let us abolish all the bonus rules that exist and let us abolish the drive reform and national tests. These are at least some places that we in the Enhedslisten think you can look at to break up with this. Again, thank you for the floor and thank you to the Radical Left for raising this important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112827	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112831	Thank you. And thank you for an exciting speech. I'm always curious about what the perfect world according to Enhedslisten would actually look like. And that leads me to ask the question: if we live in a world without grades, how can we judge who is going to enter the various courses, for example? After high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112850	Thank you for that question. I am also very concerned about the admission system to higher education. And now I have already stood up here and said that we must abolish the character system, so I might as well reveal that we in the Enhedslisten also want a free admission to higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112903	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112906	Thank you. It is a beautiful idea, but if we take medical education now, people from high school would be taken up who perhaps did not have the necessary skills in everything that is now required to be trained as a doctor. Then there is the risk of having some doctors who may not have the skills at all, and some students who do not complete the programme. How can this in any way be appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112931	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125112934	Now allow me to say something that may be a little revolutionary. But we believe in the Enhedslisten that people are doing what they're good at. I am sure the rapporteur will be aware of this. Well, what you're good at is what you think is fun to do. And I simply do not believe that you apply to medical school if you know that you are not so good at either the number or the chemistry. So I simply do not believe that. And that's why I'd like to say to Mr. Marcus Knuth states that in the Enhedslisten we simply consider the education system from a completely different premise from the one prevailing in today's debate. And that's a point of view that I'm willing to take up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113009	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113018	Actually, I just got curious too. I think it was exciting, and it is somehow a bit high-flying: what is going to happen to our education system? In this question of free movement, I would really like to hear what the rapporteur thinks. Should there not then be any sort of dimensioning? Should it be that all students can read exactly what they want? As a socialist, I am also a little worried about if there are a lot of people coming out at once and there is no labour market to take them off. Because it can help to squeeze wages. So should there be absolutely no regulation of what can be read?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113056	I would very much like to be involved in discussing whether there should be regulation. But I simply do not think that the way in which we are concerned today is in order, in other words on the basis of grades, and that is both because I believe that the system of character is fundamentally wrong, but also because it is socially wrong. Well, it creates more inequality. But in the best of all worlds I would say: yes, there must be a free take. Then, as we do today, we would be able to have a few spare panels, both at professional colleges and at universities, which could make some sort of regulation. That's where I'd say you could do a recording call.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113130	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113133	In fact, I also think that the recording system should be changed. I also hope that what will be the conclusion of the work that is now in the working group is that it will build more on admission tests, etc. However, in relation to this issue of dimensioning, I think that what has been done is a little off. For then you sit in Christiansborg and decide, almost exactly what education and how many there can be. I think you should put it out more than you've done. But I think there should be some sort of limit. If education pumps some young people into a labour market where they cannot be taken away, I also think it is a pity for young people. And that is contrary to the ideal idea of free absorption. That was, in fact, most of the dilemma that I would like the rapporteur to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113215	I would very much like to deal with that. For that is true; it is really a pity to train for unemployment. The problem is that we cannot predict the labour market of the future. Those who are starting university education today are not training for the labour market we know today, not for the labour market we know in five years' time. So unless mr. Jacob Mark himself has some crystal ball that I don't have or don't know, I actually think it's somehow a little misplaced. I think we should have the courage to leave it up to the universities and to the students themselves. Well, it should be driven by desire, I mean and mean we in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113248	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113254	Yes, but I suddenly get a little curious and want to ask a question to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Because now I've been teaching 15 years I think, and I can tell you that I've met some students whose ambitions were higher than, for example. Their abilities immediately reached out, if I may say so a little diplomatically. So is the rapporteur not interested at all in the fact that there has to be something called pass and not passed? Well, it's a kind of character, you might say. So I'm just curious to hear if you're gonna dribble through and become a doctor, if you want to make your parents happy, despite the fact that you don't have the skills to do that, for example. in the subjects that Mr. Marcus Knuth mentioned it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113340	Well, basically, I don't think you have to take an education to make your parents happy, even though my parents were very happy when, after 10 years, I finally returned my Master's thesis to Copenhagen University. But I think what this is all about is: how do we ensure that the young people are better? Will it be more effective to get a character or to know that you have passed or failed? I don't think so. I think getting a statement, getting some positive feedback is gonna make you better. So I'd say that's what's supposed to replace the character system we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113409	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113413	Okay. I would just like to say that I have no idea whatsoever that one should take an education based on what one's parents would like. But sometimes there's just a reality out there that's like that. But that means you have to have feedback. So you're going to have to see some way through some kind of process where somebody finds out if you're good enough to be, for example. surgeon. So, is that what the rapporteur imagines? Because I'm just curious to know what kind of system you could have to replace what we have now and where we get some people out who are actually qualified for exactly the jobs they want. Whether they want to be a pilot or a surgeon or a primary school teacher, it is important that they have the skills to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113453	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113458	But I think that Mrs Pernille Schnoor is asking two different questions. For one thing is about recording systems, that is how we record students in higher education. And the other thing is about judgements. And I think that there should be free admission, and I think that it will regulate itself because you do what you want to do and what you are good at doing. And the two things are for the vast majority of people together. If we then talk judgment, I think we should replace the system we know today with a system based on opinion and feedback that is forward-looking. Because when you get a character or are told whether you have passed or have not passed, I just don't think it helps to make anyone better. And what we are preoccupied with in the Enhedslisten is that people become more skilled by taking an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113539	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113543	After all, we have started a discussion which I hope we will soon be allowed to take elsewhere when we get an invitation from the Minister to evaluate the character scale. As far as the abolition of grades is concerned, I do not agree with the Enhedslisten. I think it should be supplemented by feedback and with guidance. But is Enhedslisten's Mrs. Rosa Lund not at all concerned about the legal certainty of students? I know that Mrs Rosa Lund's heart really beats warmly for the students. I am thinking of the legal certainty of having one, after all, as objective as possible character. Now we have a scale, we have had another one in the past held up against a subjectively based opinion, i.e. if those things are kept away from each other. I am just thinking that the legal certainty of students will certainly be trampled underfoot if the ambition of Enhedslisten is followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113635	I think that is a very good question, and it is certainly not surprising that there are, after all, some things on which Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats do not entirely agree. But I do not think that feedback and opinions are visions, because we are not talking about just going to an educational institution and giving some random student or student a statement about what I think. After all, these are statements and feedback to be given by professionals, i.e. by teachers and teachers. So I simply do not believe that statements and feedback are such subjective visions. In fact, I am very confident that the people we have trained to carry out this task can do it absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113713	Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113725	Well, with more than 20 years of experience, now with fear of being accused by Mr. Marcus Knuth for referring to my former merites... as an external lecturer at a higher education degree... I just want to thank you for the confidence that after all it wasn't just sightings I took as a basis, but that it was a professional assessment. Then for my next question. I know that Enhedslisten may find it boring to discuss, but I would like to focus a little on the money, because where should they come from, if so, in the case we have free admission? We have admission tests, we have talks, we have all sorts of alternatives to what we have today. I see a huge resource move in a system that is already a little kneeling and where we have barely half a million students immatriculated right at the moment. in our education system. So I would like to ask Mrs Rosa Lund where the money will come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113804	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113811	Well, I always thought it was so weird, that is, that we in the Enhedslisten shouldn't like to talk about money or finance, because we really like to talk about that. And in the Enhedslisten, we would like to give priority to money for education as opposed to what is being done today. We want to give priority to a great deal of money for education, and where money is to be found there are places in society where there are a great many of them, namely at the top, at speculators, at banks. We could, for example. Imagine rolling back the tax cuts that have been granted so that we reach the tax level that we had in 2009. Then we would actually get a lot of money to create an excellent education system for without stress and pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113847	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113851	Thank you. I was sitting under Mrs Pernille Schnoors's question and had a little concern which I need to clarify. Because we have this young person who wants to be a surgeon, and there's open access, and then he goes in and reads medicine. Is there anything stopping him before he's operating if he really doesn't have the ability to do it? He's gonna get a lot of feedback that's probably gonna say you're not good for this, but is there something that's gonna stop him along the way before he's operating on me?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113927	Well, I hope there is, I'll say, if he can't find out. Then I hope that there are some of Mrs Mette Reissmann's talented colleagues in the educational institutions who say that this is not for you and that you will think of something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113940	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125113943	But then I hear a little bit that we're in some kind of judgment that says you can't do this. Or is it about you getting a guide that says you can't figure this out, and now I hope you find out for yourself how to stop? Do I have the right to go all the way through as a surgeon, or do Enhedslisten imagine that there are actually stop tests along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114007	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114010	I do not really imagine that there are stop tests as such. However, that is and now I repeat my answer to Mr. Marcus Knuth because I basically believe that you're doing what you're good at. Well, no one thinks it's fun to do something they're bad at. Nobody likes that. That is why I think, and now it is almost a pity, that there is no one in the Chamber from the Liberal Alliance that it will regulate itself; that is very strange for a socialist to say. The Minister for Education is of course from the Liberal Alliance, but I meant a rapporteur. Oh, he's standing there!
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114041	Thank you. I note that if Mrs Rosa Lund goes down from the platform now, there will be room for the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, because there are no more brief remarks. And so it is with that, sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114101	Thank you very much for the floor. And yes, I have heard the excellent debate that just took place. I would like to thank the Radical Left for calling this debate, which is also an opportunity to consider some of the major political issues. I would say that, by its very nature, there are many views here at Christiansborg that I disagree with, but after careful consideration I have come to the conclusion that I simply do not believe there is any view that I agree with less than the view that is summarized in the question debate we have today, namely that there should be a damaging culture of performance in the Danish education system. What you have to learn in school and high school is to think into the box. Because if you can't think into the box, you'll never learn to think out of the box in a way that's even interesting. What you have to learn is to be industrious, and we have to reward hard work, because what characterizes practically everyone who is known for being creative is that they have been extremely industrious. You have to learn to live with adversity and things that fail in the first attempt, because that is how to learn to speak German if you are not a German, and you have to learn to have a realistic picture of yourself and the place you have in a hierarchy. I can tell Mrs Rosa Lund that I have been informed by a school psychologist that an increasing problem today is unjustified self-confidence, and that is something that needs to be addressed. But that's the world we live in. Why should it be this way that I have outlined here? But it has to, because Denmark is a country founded by hard work and hard work. Without our parents' will to get up early and keep up until the assignments were done, we didn't stand here. This also applies to our parties. The Radical Left is founded by people who did well in school and did not shy away from giving it a head on the labour market. This also applies to the Social Democratic Party and the Socialist People's Party. I read a few years ago Claus Bjørn's biography about H.C. Hansen. He was born in a working home in 1906. He was super talented, and by hard work he quickly became a central person in his party. Later, when he became prime minister, Swedish-born Queen Ingrid, who spoke perfectly Danish, wondered that H.C. did not know English. He made some excuses which could also have sounded in this Chamber today, and to that Queen Ingrid said: you can do whatever you want. And then H.C. learned to speak English. So hard work is a virtue, and being lazy is a vice. And based on the general principle that the Folketing should encourage virtue and fight the cargo, it makes no sense to listen to the jam that it is hard to go to school. It may be, for example, if you do. has been unlucky and on the part of nature is equipped with weakened physics or weakened mental powers. But if you do not have weakened physics or weakened mental powers, there are simply no excuses for wailing about being enrolled in the Danish educational system. It is not very competitive in comparison with other countries, it is not very demanding and you receive generous financial support when you no longer have to be supported by your parents. What about higher education, which we are also talking about? Yeah, here's how if you have 9 in average, you can get 90 per cent. of all higher education. If you have 7 on average, you can enter about three quarters of them. And for about half of them, there is simply free admission. So the whole discourse about a harmful performance culture I somehow perceive as a diversion. It is the revenge of the lazy and mediocre people on the industrious and the talented, and I therefore find it very difficult to accept and contribute to that. This is not a project I support. That is why I simply do not recognise the premise on which the question is based. I think there is good reason to look at other forms of inappropriate culture, perfection culture, etc. But I'm not buying that thing with a damaging performance culture. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114538	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114543	The rapporteur himself is a researcher, and so I would like to hear about something. After all, there are about 7,400 children under the age of 19 who are treated for stress and stress-related conditions. The rapporteur does not recognise that there are researchers who are actually researching stress and depression, etc. among young people who claim that this is related to that culture of achievement? The rapporteur himself is not, as far as I remember, a researcher in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114625	There are so many diagnoses that unfortunately attract hypoconders, and that is a pity for the people who actually have a disorder that attracts hypoconders. Stress is a diagnosis that can be made to a large extent, and so many people are using it. And that is, of course, a problem for those who, in a diagnostic sense, have stress. So I'm actually more prepared to look at how to actually use a fashion diagnosis as stress.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114700	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114704	Now it is not actually a figure of how many people have diagnoses I mention. It is a figure of how many are in treatment • 7,400 in treatment. Does the rapporteur think that these are hypoconds which doctors cannot see through so that they have received treatment? I don't quite understand. I'd like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114723	There are numerous fashion diagnostics, and I believe that stress is one of them. But that must, of course, require further clarification, perhaps in another question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114733	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114739	Mr. Henrik Dahl, that our higher education is populated with lazy and mediocre students?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114746	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114749	I believe that the student movement and the student movement are trying to organise interests that promote laziness and mediocrity. Last time we saw that it was almost a violation of human rights that we had to meet on time. I have to say that this country is thus founded by people who come on time. So I can't understand that at all. It is more the political movements that are trying to talk about laziness and mediocrity that I am right about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114817	If you want to make two comments, I would just like to make a few comments. Because we run with both one and two remarks. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114825	Thank you. We're practicing in this form. This is also what the former rapporteur has said about these research results on precisely a damaging performance culture. Is it also just an expression of lazy and mediocre research?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114847	This is not the first time in the history of the world that scientists have politicised. And I think this is police research.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114853	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114856	I'd really like to hear something. Now the rapporteur says that, like the rapporteur, there is a culture of perfection, and the rapporteur's own minister has also said that there is a culture of perfection. What causes this culture of perfection, and how do we change it again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125114918	I once managed a radio program where I was lucky enough to interview the psychologist Per Schultz Jørgensen, and what we had an hour and a half to discuss was the point of raising children at all. Per Schultz Jørgensen said something that I thought was incredibly wise and that I have never forgotten, namely that the main purpose of raising children is to give them a sense of reality. And then he added that, as everyone who has a sense of reality knows, it hurts to have it. I believe that there are many parents who somehow neglect to give their children a sense of reality. For people who have a well-developed sense of reality, I do not think they are as prone to embark on an unhealthy performance culture as people who have been so unlucky not to be brought up to get a sense of reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115004	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115008	So if you had, like a generation of parents who actually managed to give the children a sense of reality, that is what I hear the rapporteur say, then would the culture of perfection that the rapporteur, like it, recognises there, disappear?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115027	This would probably make a strong contribution to it, and it would probably also make part of the problem of unjustified self-confidence that many professionals in the educational world encounter, disappear. Storm P. had a joke, which was a joke in his day, and which is that one man asks another man: Can you play the piano? And then the man who's asked says, "I don't know, I've never tried." Today there are children who think that way, and that is a very crazy way of thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115050	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115054	Thank you. I was just a little provoked by some of it, sir. Henrik Dahl said that the student and student movement should mobilise a lazy culture. So, I'm just gonna listen to Mr. Simpson. Henrik Dahl, if it is not positive, when young people • pupils and students • engage in the associations and organisations that represent them, and in fact their opinions speak loudly about what they think of their everyday life, regardless of whether Mr. Henrik Dahl should agree with it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115130	In principle, I am in favour of young people engaging in civil society, but it is not all that comes out of engaging in civil society that is equally good. This whole thing about watching the student movement defend the opportunity to cheat, or to be late, and never talking about the goodness of being diligent, trying, coming on time, being able to do things, etc., is, in my view, something that is delegitating, for example. DGS.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115208	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod. I have asked for the floor to be entered if you wish to speak twice. Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115217	I'd like to ask you, sir. Henrik Dahl elaborates on what his problem is with the research that shows that high school students raise their hands because they want a good character and not because they are curious and will contribute to the teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115233	The problem is that this is a completely foolish contradiction, and if you are researching a completely foolish contradiction, there is something wrong. One must take part in the teaching, and it does not really matter why one participates in the teaching. The best thing is if you participate in the teaching because you are motivated to participate in the teaching, but if you instead of the carrot have to have the whip as motivation, that is to say you have to have an annual character, then that must be the case. I'm not buying the contrast. On the whole, this debate is based on a whole lot of contradictions that I do not buy, i.e. a contradiction between diligence and creativity, a contradiction between thinking into the box and thinking out of the box, a contradiction between feeling moderate psychological pressure to perform and being motivated. These are not contradictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115321	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115325	It may be that Mr. Henrik Dahl thinks so, but the reality is that the high school students themselves say that they do not raise their hands because they are curious, but just to answer what they think the teacher would like to hear, and that is why I would like to keep the Liberal Alliance rapporteur on whether this is not a problem. So, couldn't the students learn more if they actually took part in the teaching because they were curious?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115353	Well, it's just a confession case where the students in question reveal or confess that they are dull and unmotivated bananas. Well, it's too bad they're in high school. I think they shouldn't go to high school if they're so bored, but they're allowed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in line is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125115419	Thank you. ▪ Thinking without learning is useless and learning without thinking is dangerous, the Chinese philosopher Kongfuzi once said. Well, learning without thinking is dangerous. And speaking of the drive reform, he has also said: "It doesn't matter how slow you go, as long as you don't stop. I think these are some really relevant quotes to the debate we have today. I think that these are very wise words in relation to what the previous rapporteur said and in relation to what we are talking about, namely the culture of performance in education. Speaking of performance, I think it is obvious to mention a country like Singapore. In the educational world, Singapore is known as the nation that ranks highest out of the 72 nations in the PISA studies of students' achievements in the subject areas of science, mathematics and reading. Children from Singapore, according to the PISA studies, are world champions in mathematics, but it is worth noting that in Singapore, despite the high position, you now choose to saddle up completely and go new ways. "Learning is not a competition," Singapore's Minister of Education, Ong Ye Kung, I think his name is said. The Ministry of Singapore is planning a series of changes which aim to minimize the desire to compare themselves with others and instead concentrate on its own learning. So in Singapore, which we would otherwise like to look like for a very long time because they have such talented students at the PISA ranking, they have found out that you have to do something new and you have to do something about the performance culture. But what do we do in Denmark? Very many children and young people in Denmark, we have heard from several rapporteurs, feel stressed and suffer from anxiety. In 2015, almost 7,400 children under the age of 19 received treatment for nervous and stress-related conditions. It is almost tenfold since 1995, when 800 children received treatment. With regard to stress in high school, two researchers did a study on it in 2017, and that research showed that more than every second student in 2 g scored as high on the stress scale as the most stress-stricken fifth of the population. So there were a lot of young people who were stressed in the 2nd g. These are harsh figures, and I simply do not think we can afford to sit aside and say that this is about hypocondri or anything else. That is simply not right. Anders Petersen, a lecturer in sociology at Aalborg University, has for many years been researching depression as a social phenomenon. He argues in his book "The Performance Society" that the large number of people who suffer anxiety and depression is due to a human vision where performance has been given the status of being the ideal for good life. He has said: 'What we are experiencing at the moment is that this thinking also permeates all our institutions. We create opportunities to win, but thus also the risk of losing. And I fear that soon we will see children as the next to suffer massively from depression. Today it is especially young people who are particularly at risk of developing the suffering, but children are now also exposed to this thinking right down to kindergarten and primary school. • Competition and the so-called competitive thinking have undoubtedly gained ground at the educational and training institutions, where everything must gradually be measured, weighed and tested, and its own performance must be countered by the peers and classmates. I am incredibly pleased with this debate today, because it was as if all opinion-formers at one point agreed that it was all due to social media. But we cannot blame social media for everything. Social media are part of the problem, they are a symptom, but the problem lies much deeper in the structures we have built around children and young people. When we hear about children and young people who do not dare to raise their finger for fear that they are getting bad grades, it is because the grades fill so much that the children actually hold back for fear of saying something wrong. A study from the Danish High School Students Association has shown this. When we hear about students who are afraid of helping each other, because the study life is so fiercely competitive that they simply do not dare, when for the same reason at CBS they have chosen to make a grade-free semester, and when we hear that children have low self-esteem, stress and anxiety, that they get stomach pains of stress, have thought problems and have a constant doubt as to whether they do well enough, it is an indication that something is completely wrong. It is an expression of an unhealthy culture and a very unhealthy learning culture. Three years ago, I wrote a paper in Politiken, entitled "Abring down the national tests," calling for the elimination of national tests. What we could see was that in the second grade you had to sit still for over 1 hour, you had to know what wine yeast, a forest brow and a meerschaum pipe are, and if you didn't know it, you could figure out that you didn't know it, because then you would have to answer and answer forever. Why do I mention that? I mention this because we have not gone any further today; on the contrary, it is worse today, when more and more children are suffering from anxiety and more and more children and young people are suffering from depression. According to the head doctor at the Children's and Youth Psychiatric Center in Glostrup, Pia Jeppesen, at least 20% will. of children and adolescents have met the criteria for anxiety or depression before becoming adults. Carsten Opel, professor of mental child health at Aarhus University, says that children and young people are fighting a social struggle that makes it difficult for them to live up to the ideal self-image. He has recently said: "Much suggests that the competitive society in which we live and the digital universe make it difficult for children and young people to be themselves. He explains that man can basically choose between two strategies: competing against each other or playing together, and that society has pressured children and young people to choose the first strategy, and it is not healthy for their self-esteem. And Carsten Opel is not alone in thinking that the big competition is problematic. They think so in Singapore, and we also heard it in Japan when we were on a study trip there. So what can we do? In Singapore they significantly reduce exams and grades, and according to Carsten Opel, Professor from Aarhus University, self-esteem is strengthened when you do something for others. That is why he says that more work needs to be done to bring children and young people into good communities. We in the Alternative are convinced that you should drop the national tests, the progress reform, have fewer grades. We should not completely remove the grades, but we should have fewer grades. are non-educational, and focus on the joy of knowledge, the joy of learning and the joy of creating. Can I finally make a little rhyme? Fourth Vice-President Very, very long time has already been spent). In school you terp the small tables/In life you learn that they don't apply... they're my last words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120200	It was important. Okay, but there's such a nice little watch so you can keep up in time. But I couldn't figure out what it said there). Yeah, it's pretty easy, it's even in red. ALT): That hour I wasn't there. Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120213	Thank you, and thank you for an exciting debate and a very important debate about the many pressured young people who are both at our primary and secondary schools, a debate about why they are being pressured, what is pushing them, and I do not think anyone has all the answers to that, but I think that we can get a little closer to it by listening to each other. My note says that there is a culture of perfection created also in the education system. Then there is a shock, then there is unhappy love, then there is poor self-esteem in education policy, and then there is austerity. It's because I think that the whole thinking of our educational system that has led to this culture of perfection, this zero-fault thinking actually started with a shock, the PISA shock, which came back in approx. 2004. It had been thought that we were the best in the world, and suddenly a PISA measurement showed that we might not be the best at reading, and that we weren't the best at counting anyway. Although we lay well, there were some of them with which we compared ourselves, who did it better. Then something happened that could happen in here at Christiansborg, namely that politicians panicked and said: We are no longer the best; what do we do? And when the reporters came and asked, what are you going to do? Then nobody had the quick answers, because it would actually take a long time to work and trust the employees out there, but the opposite was chosen: to do what those with whom we compared ourselves had not done, that is to say to introduce national tests. They then arrived in the 2005 settlement, which SF and the Radicals were not part of. National tests were, like the start of the process that led to the zero error culture in the education system, because then the grading scale was changed. It has also been discussed today. Where the previous grade scale also rewarded creativity and originality, where when you entered an exam, you built up and got better grades, depending on how you performed, then the new scale should also and mostly be about flaws and shortcomings. You started from the top, and the more mistakes you had, the worse character you got. It was a fundamentally different way of thinking about education, which was more about mistakes. Then came the unhappy love, namely the unhappy love of goal management and the belief that we could control everything inside Christiansborg, the belief that the young people should learn exactly what we knew in advance, as if it were what made them the most capable. This meant that in higher education both skills management was introduced, but also that learning objectives were introduced into teacher training and that teachers now had to teach some goals that we set from here. That is exactly what the students have to learn, and that is important. The freedom of method that had once been had to be changed to teaching exactly according to the learning objective-driven teaching method, so that you could achieve exactly the learning objectives that were so important. The learning goals were then linked up to the national tests, so the national tests tested whether the students actually reached the learning goals that the politicians in Christiansborg had decided. Later, the reform of the primary school was then carried out, which in its entirety had to be measured by whether there was progress in the national tests, which were based on the learning objectives. Then they made the learning platforms, which for the teachers was a way to sit and cross off with the flybones, whether the students had learned exactly what they had to learn in the learning goals that they had decided on at Christiansborg. My point with all this, my point of saying that there was a shock, my point of saying that there was an unhappy love in this goal management, is to say that we have created an educational system where you no longer trust enough of the employees, where you tell the students that what we care most about is precisely that they have to achieve these learning goals and that it is a mistake if they cannot achieve exactly them. We measure them in it, we test them in it, and there has been less time for creativity that has become less time for formation. There has been more focus on goals and less focus on purposes. I could talk a lot about how I think you should turn down the character race. I could spend a lot of time saying that I think there has been too much focus on pushing children and young people quickly through the system, because I believe that there has been, and I have talked about that many times here in the platform. I could tell you that I think that setting an educational ceiling is an educational problem because it breaks with the idea that one could become wiser, but I really believe that what I am going to say today is that children and young people should be allowed to fail. Children and young people must be in an educational system where they are supposed to make mistakes, because it is in the education system that there must be room to fail, because then you become wiser. Children and young people must not only learn what we already know as a society in advance. Children and young people must be trained to think new thoughts and produce instead of reproducing. Then we will have to change the culture of perfection that the Minister is talking about, we will also have to change the way we think about education and create an education system that is less about mistakes and shortcomings, is less about targeting and is more about teaching, about skilled employees and about professional freedom out on the ground. I think that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120729	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henrik Dahl. I knew that).
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120732	Thank you for a very good speech, and I would like to start with what I would like to say with a kind of metaphor from the medical world. Because you may well have a situation where two doctors agree entirely with the diagnosis, but then there is what is called the prescription, that is, what we should give for some medicine. And I don't really have a problem with sir. Jacob Mark's diagnosis we have also discussed it very many times but there are some things about ordination, i.e. which treatment plan should then be put in place, which I think is worth discussing. And then we come back to this whole meritocratic thing, which is one of the things. I cannot really understand why a socialist party does not see the risk of pouring out the meritocratic child with the bath water. So, meritocracy is the way forward, not least if you are a socialist, but also if you are a liberal. So where is the meritocratic principle and the healthy competition in Mr. Jacob Mark's thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120850	I think that there will really be more healthy competition if you get rid of all this zero error culture, and if you say to the students: "Take pains, make yourselves as proficient in what you are passionate about as you can." We have to make demands on them. I don't mind demands. So for the thing about what the solution is. Well, the solution could be, for example. be changing the whole way we test in primary school, the national tests. That is why I am pleased that the rapporteur's minister has said that there must be an evaluation of it, because I believe that the way we test today leads to zero error culture. I would like to put an end to learning-oriented teaching. I would like competence objectives to be much smaller in higher education, because I believe that thinking education in this way is wrong with our education system. In relation to meritocracy and grades, I would say that I think the most important thing we can do is to start by reducing the amount of characters. That's what I hear most stressful, that is, they are constantly being pumped with grades. Now the rapporteur keeps saying that grades are color-blind. I don't think they are. I also believe that if you come from a resourceful family you will benefit from the character system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120958	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125120959	So, the Danish Evaluation Institute has at least demonstrated that grades are the least low if you compare the other recording methods that you have tested it against • not that they are perfect, but they are less poor. I just need to be comforted in one thing. After all, there will be some form of basis for discussing reform of the education system with the Socialist People's Party, which I hear quite clearly. What I sometimes hear from the Radical Left is that the whole system should be transformed into a high school, and that would not be a good starting point for us. So where does SF stand in the question of turning it all into a high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125121035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125121036	I am very fond of high schools, and I really am very fond of Radical Left's high school thinking, but I believe that neither the Radical Left nor the SF want our education system to be a high school. What I hear is that we are concerned that there are more children and young people who are miserable. We are concerned about the fact that an educational system has been built up which is about flaws and shortcomings, rather than creating room for creativity. And then it is true that EVA has said that the character system is the least poor, but that does not mean that we cannot continue to work on creating an evaluation system which is then better, for example. with admission tests. I think that is an exciting debate. Is it possible to make the recording tests more nuanced? This is one of the things we need to talk about when the Minister for Education and Research comes forward with his evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125121118	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. Then we have just reached the Minister for Education and Research, the first of the two ministers to take the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125121135	Thank you again for the floor. I have a few reflections on the debate here, which I really think has been good. I've learned something, both where we agree • Fortunately very many places • But also where we disagree. I think we're gonna agree somewhere on what's wrong out there. We all want an education system that still focuses on performing and improving and immersing ourselves, but we want to get away from the part about a culture of perfection. Sometimes, when we talk about it, we call it an unhealthy performance culture, but what we may think is that perfection culture, where you are afraid to raise your hand, and where you think and almost think that you only get the good life if you get 12 in all subjects. This is, of course, a very strong starting point for the debate both here today and in the future, when we continue to discuss this, because I don't think we will ever really find the right thing in this, but I hope that we can always do some things here politically that are going to push this, so that we get a little away from this perfection culture, but can maintain a culture of performance where you say: I want to 12, or I want to, where we may then get a little more disagreed when we go down in it, are on the individual elements. I just want to mention a few first and then move on to where we might again agree. One of the points on which we disagree is precisely what we can do here politically. There I have to say in relation to the educational ceiling, which has been asked a few times from up here just to take it up that I think it is a little bit about that when we stand here in the Danish Parliament and say that the educational ceiling creates a performance anxiety, then I get afraid, because we have to acknowledge that words mean something, that we help to talk it over there, that it will be so that you think: No, I can't choose wrong. But we know that you can easily stop at any stage of your education before you have finished it if you find that you have chosen wrong. We know that we are going to do even more for the choice of studies and what the government has also proposed and which I assume there is broad support for and we also know that those who, according to the figures we have, are finally actually affected by the educational ceiling are so few that it is not the 100,000 who have to think: no, now I really have to be careful, and now I am afraid to choose wrong, because I cannot choose again. It is very, very few people who are affected by it, and there we have made some concessions. So I am frustrated that the educational ceiling will be an element in the fact that we are talking about it there, because that is not where I think it belongs. There I actually think we have a commitment, and I try, when I'm out there, to say: Try to hear, it's very unlikely that it's going to mean that you can't choose about. Then it's about the drive reform. Perhaps I would like to hear Mrs Lotte Rod in particular what it is that will be removed in the drive reform. Is this the element of saying to the universities and the other higher education institutions that part of their grant depends on whether the students complete at the rated time plus 3 months? If we take universities, it is an average overrun of six months. If, on average, they can talk about it, we have not established any rules centrally, and then it is up to them to do what they want to do. Because we have just loosened up many of the things in the drive reform, which were probably a little too tight and a little too rigid. I think that is a good principle, and I also believe that some of the elements involved in the reform that led universities to, for example. to lay down rules on how long you spend on your thesis, was actually good compared to this perfection culture. Because that's what we'll hear if we go down and talk to Student counselling. They say: We no longer get anyone in, who comes with the stress of their specialty and sits in this specialty swamp, where they will keep getting better, just will make it a little better and a little better. You understand that okay, enough is enough, now you've spent X number of months on it, then you turn in your specialty. So I think that the firm framework for what we still have with the drive reform is a good idea. They may even be able to counter the fact that everything is becoming too diffuse. That is why I would like to stick to it and I would like to hear exactly what it is that you want to remove there. Most people agree that grades are good, because grades reward diligence. There has just been one extreme view from Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten that grades should just be completely gone and that everyone should be allowed to become surgeons because there is a self-regulating mechanism out there that makes you know for yourself what you are good at. There you just have to see the audition for the X Factor... once to know that's not quite the case. But we do agree that the element in the grades that is about us punishing your mistakes instead of rewarding your diligence and your skill and your willingness to try things out, we must have changed. That's what the government said we'd like to look at in the character system. It is partly about the step descriptions, partly perhaps also about something in the steps, partly about something at the top of the scale. Let's have that talk when we get there. But I believe that if we can get the character system there, we may also be a little less afraid of how many tests we have, because then it will animate that you have to show that you dare something, to get the character, instead of rewarding those who do nothing, because as a starting point you get 12, as mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl said it. So finally, no, I forgot! Can I go down from the platform and get my phone? Fourth Vice-President Yes, of course you can. Even ministers can forget, I see). Thank you, Mr President. And now I'll see if I can find this, because it might be a little bit... there! I have learned as a politician that it is good to show that you have been out in reality. I have, and it was in a P1 program, and one named Noah has heard something I have said, and writes like this in a message: I have heard you say in a P1 program that you did not know the exact cause of stress and perfection culture among young people. Of course I do not, but there is one missing reason I have experienced as a young person: the tone of the education debate. You've been changing that lately, so I'd like to thank you for that. For me, it makes a big difference that you talk us up instead of complaining about us. I may disagree with all sorts of your party's policy... fair enough... but only the fact that you have focused on the problems and talk about them in a positive way, I think you are helping to push the culture. At least I can tell from myself that it makes me less afraid of failing. It's just a reminder to all of us that it matters what we do in here, what we say, and not only what we do as legislators, but also what we do as opinionformers out there. So my hope is that this debate will continue and that we will succeed in talking them out without turning into curling politicians who dare not tell them that there is also a reality out there where demands are being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125121923	Thank you very much, Minister. There are brief comments. Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125121928	I am very much in agreement with what the Minister has said about the fact that we should not be curling politicians. I also believe that, as we get through the education system, we must recognise that there may be defeats. And you have to be able to handle that, because for the rest of your life, you may not be able to completely avoid different failures of different kinds. The Minister said in his opening speech that the perfect choice does not exist. I fully agree, but in this context I would just like to hear from the Minister whether he does not agree that when the perfect choice does not exist, uncertainty can arise, and that is why we must also strengthen the guidance and feedback that are linked to making a choice. The Minister then said, when I asked the question about the economy and the cuts, that they will be removed by 2021, that the Minister can guarantee that the savings and that 2%. Reprioritised contribution shall be removed by 2021 • at the latest?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122032	Yes, we have taken a decision on this, as can be seen from the financial law we have put forward, that the re-prioritisation contribution will end at the end of 2021, so that the money will remain in this area. We have not yet said clearly how they will get out, whether it is through the taximeter system that they come out to all the institutions or something else is being done. But there will be no more savings on the education system after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122053	Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122056	I did not hear the Minister guaranteeing it, but anyway, if I am to interpret it in the terms used by the Minister, I will allow myself to go as far as that is what he said. That's exactly the thing about words, sir. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important, and the Minister knows this very well, so when the Minister causes that it is a little strange that some of us use the word 'training ceiling', it is actually a word that gives the audience a strong feeling that this is something negative. I fully recognize that what covers up the training ceiling was, of course, an agreement on the limitation of dual training. So that's why, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: And Noah, who responded to the Minister's speech in P1, is also absolutely right that we should speak it up. So how will the Minister again explain to Noah and to everyone else who listens to this debate, and also to both previous and future radio programmes, how to insure and reassure students and students that everything will be done when you have such a strong cutting policy as you have on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122207	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122209	Yes, words mean something, and that's why I'm annoyed that some people keep calling it an educational ceiling, because it sounds like you can't train, and you can do that. It is some rules on the limitation of dual education that affect 1,000 students, and so we have to be completely honest about this where the funds go to finance the benefit system. Because we need to talk about funding in this, and funding is also about giving priority to the economy. That is why we have made a re-priority contribution which will end at the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122237	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122240	Thank you for a good speech again that touched me. But there was one thing I noticed and I would ask the Minister to think about. It is here that it can quickly come to a conclusion in today's debate that it is not the culture of performance that is wrong with, but that it is the culture of perfection and that people should just not strive to get 12. Are we really serious? Well, isn't it important that people strive? I think it is. You have to make an effort and stand on your toes. You just have to be able to feel comfortable when you don't get what you're trying to achieve. The most important thing for me is that you are not judged all the time, but that there is time to play and learn and make mistakes before you are judged. That is why I believe that the main difference in this debate is in the question: what would happen if there were a longer period when there were no grades? Would you learn more than I believe in or would the students, as Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance says just be more lazy? What does the Minister think? If we give the young people longer periods, between grades, they become more skilled, or do they become more lazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122348	I think people act very differently, but just to clarify one thing: I fully agree that one should strive to do it right, very well, and one should strive to get 12, but one should not have that thing saying that one has the right to have 12, or that it all falls apart if one does not get 12. So you have to strive all the time. Personally, I do not believe that it will change that part if we have fewer tests, because the attempts that have been made not to give grades show that people are confused about where they stand. So if you manage to use the characters as something formal that then builds up, and people know that then they might have to try something else in order to get a higher grade, then I think it can also lead to a deepening of the number of tests that you have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122446	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122447	So, for me, the evaluation of the grade-free first g classes shows that the students say they're insecure because they don't always get grades, because just how sick a system we've built up, that they're so used to getting grades all the time, that at the moment they're going to be in a world where you can try things out and where you have to learn something along the way without being judged all the time, they miss it because they're addicted to getting grades because they've been used to getting them all the time. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122520	You may think so, but I don't read that out of it. I read that it is quite natural for us people that we want to know where we are and that we also want to know where we are relative to others where we are relative to what we want to be able to do in a given subject. So I actually see it as an expression of it, not that we have a sick culture around grades. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122541	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122544	Thank you. The Minister asked a question to the Radical Left. So I take that because I also helped to introduce the drive reform. And what I've learned since then, along with what the minister says about the education ceiling, is that it gets a life out in reality, whether you like it or not. I agree with the Minister that it means a great deal how to talk about things, but it gets a life, both in terms of how it is taken down and how the rules work. An educational ceiling that has implications for 1,000 students also has implications for a whole lot of other students and potential and future students. This has real consequences, because they have to consider it. We can ask them not to do so and then say that it will probably not affect them. But it matters in their heads, because they have to consider: What if I get hit by it, and what if this is what I'd rather do? Then the thinking becomes narrower, and the same thing has happened, we must recognise, with parts of the drive reform. I'm glad we've loosened up, but the understanding that there are things you can't and that you have to hurry is still there. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he has the feeling that students do not know that there are expectations of them. In other words, does the Minister have the feeling that today we are acting like what the Minister, by the way, in terms of words that are important, called curling politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122722	I didn't quite understand the question, but I'm still trying here. I believe in relation to, for example. It is not enough to say that if we do not dare to say that we want to have a system in which we aim for a student to complete his or her bachelor's degree in 3 years and his or her second-year Master's degree, then we will become too much curling politicians. We also do so in relation to the system we would like to see how many take an education. Because it will be very, very expensive for the whole of society, if there is not, what to say, an incentive to try to do so here at the time set aside, and then during the training have time for all the mistakes you want to make and the immersion. And there I think that the individual study arrangements are designed in this way. So I think that if, for example, we do. I think it would be a good idea if we were to get rid of it and say that we would then have to abolish it, we would be a little too much curling politicians, and perhaps we would shoot what we would like and the priority we would like to have in education a little bit in the foot, because we would like to give many people an education. We can give more people an education if more people complete on time; we can give more people an education if fewer people take a double education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122826	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122830	In other words, I fully agree, and we have always said so, that we expect to be able to complete our training on a standardized basis. Then there are some who, for some very special reasons • exposure, disability, other things • cannot. Moreover, some of them were mistakenly affected and, hopefully, we will be able to take account of them. What is in the progress reform is that they are constantly being demanded, and we have loosened that a little. I agree that we must have those expectations, and that is how we have allocated funding for it. We can do that precisely when the Minister thinks that words also mean so much. That is what we expect, and that is the framework we have set for it. But let us loosen all the tapes that make it necessary to keep checking whether it is being complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125122922	That's where I think we disagree. Because I think we've put on a very, very small tape. For what is almost only left of the progress reform is, after all, the element that is now coming into the new appropriation system, in which we create a mechanism that provides an incentive for each university or professional college to carry out on average on a standardized basis plus a few months. Then we have made some very clear exceptions to those who are particularly challenged. If you get a lot of people through in regulated time, you have a huge pool you can choose to use locally to release leave on semesters. So I think we have now come to where we have the right mechanism to ensure that it is so free. And then let's talk about it in a different way. That is what I mean by the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123003	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123006	Thank you. One of the things I really like about this type of question debate is that you can afford to have some more fundamental discussions. And that's why I'd like to ask the Minister something about grades. What a surprise! For the Minister says that we must prepare students for defeat, disappointment and, above all, the demands of the labour market on them. I fully agree with that. How often do you use your grades in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123041	Rarely, but one is constantly judged, and one must always choose. I have to choose between two suggestions from two employees all the time. I always have to give priority to the economy when I'm standing out there. So you are constantly judged and constantly get an evaluation of your work. This is done in a different way in the business world, but of course you don't go to a meeting where it's such that because you've got 9.4 averaged, your draft budget wins over my draft budget if I only got 9.2. So that means very little. But when we have so many students we have 270,000 students on our higher education courses and have to find a scalable system to give them an assessment that at the same time gives them legal certainty and is fair, grades are just fantastic good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123128	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123129	Thank you. Well, that just makes it clear, I think, my point, that the system we have today is completely inadequate and sets up some completely stupid frameworks for the students, precisely because it requires this culture of perfection, because the scale of character is built up so that you start at 12, and then it's just troubleshooting all the way down. This is not the way it works when you come to life, which I fully agree with the Minister about is what we have to prepare students and students for, that is, the labour market they meet. And there I simply do not think that grades are necessary. But it is perhaps also very good that here, extremely close to a parliamentary election, some differences are recorded, including in this circle, where we are often very much in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123218	I think, however, that I made it quite clear that it is a question of constantly being judged, and that we must also stay in the education system, and that we must do so in a way that gives you a point of reference where you lie and rewards the diligent and those who make an effort. And then we will actually be in agreement if Mrs Rosa Lund has not listened to exactly what the rapporteur said about lack of focus on the rating scale. We want to change that, so it's about building up instead of rewarding those who do something and dare something and can do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123244	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123246	Thanks for a really nice speech. The Minister is very good at giving speeches and in expressing some good and proper values, but I sometimes wonder how much there are words, that is, whether it is about how to talk about what the Minister himself says or whether the Minister also wants action. I would like to know whether the Minister accepts yes or no (1) that there is an unhealthy culture of performance in the educational institutions, and (2) that incentive structures have been built into our educational institutions, which make young people, for example. do not want to touch things that do not give grades will not touch things that do not give ECTS points, i.e. because there is an unhealthy incentive structure in the systems that is simply built in so they have started to think that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123340	If the rapporteur, with an unhealthy performance culture, thinks that there is a culture of perfection, then I agree, and I would like to do away with that; that is also what I have focused on. But a culture of performance must be out there. Secondly, on the fact that there are built-in incentives, I would like to say that I have not seen that anywhere, i.e. that there are clearly built-in incentives, but it is up to the individual to find out where he wants to focus his time. I do not think that the system we have right now has completely removed the incentive to take care of its fellow human beings and cooperation. Well, it's somewhere else, it's lying if it's like that out there; it's not because of it. There are more and more of our universities moving to more and more courses that are about working together in teams. So I do not think that the development we are seeing out there at the moment is that one should become worse at working together and becoming more selfish.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123445	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123447	When I say unhealthy performance culture, there are harmful performance culture here in the query, of course I am thinking of an unhealthy competitive culture, because that is also what I was focusing on, and that is also what several people have focused on, that is, the fact that it is more important to compete than to be happy to learn and happy to gain a lot of knowledge themselves and think that it is great to become skilled in itself. Incentives, for example. in the drive reform, that is to say, the thought of ECTS points and the fear of taking a course that doesn't give ECTS points, because then you spend time on it instead of spending time on something that gives ECTS points. So these are some of the incentives that may be invisible, but which are very visible to young people, and you can very clearly see that their behaviour is moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123538	This unhealthy performance culture thing is gonna be a little bit of semantics. I think that performance is good, and I can also live with the fact that you compete out there. But if you get the expectation that you'll always have 12, and that's the only thing that counts, and you only want to mark where you're absolutely sure you can do it all, to prove that you're the good student, and that's why you don't have the guts, then I agree that there's something unhealthy out there, and that's what I call a culture of perfection.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123606	With that, we thank the Minister for Education and Research. It is a question for two ministers, so the next one to come on now is the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125123618	Thank you very much and thank you for an excellent debate. I would say that the best thing that happened in this debate from my chair was when Mrs Mette Reissmann came up on the platform and referred to Stauning. It may sound a little strange for a liberal minister to say that, but it is because Mrs Mette Reissmann remembers and knows why our education system looks like it does, and she knows what a meritocratic system is, she knows that diligence and skill must pay off in an educational system and that a good education system is fair and socially fair. It is so important that some politicians can remember it and know why it is so, otherwise we risk destroying it and it would be a disaster. That's why I really liked it. If you remove grades or dramatically reduce their importance, as I hear that the Radicals and the Enhedslisten and perhaps the Alternative would like, then you get more insecurity and insecurity among children and young people, and you get a more socially unfair education system. That's it! What about that perfection culture? So that's just the kids' problem? No, it's not. The safe environment for children and young people is the responsibility of adults. If we're looking at primary school, it's gonna work. About fewer temps. We must have continuous adults, as children know, clear frameworks and class communities, and we must cultivate the inner lives of schools. There must also be theatre performances, camp schools and other things that promote equality and community. At high school there must be both grades and feedback. This also applies to vocational training. And there must be a young culture that is conducive and that is also about things other than what is happening inside classrooms. Then we must remind young people that there are many exciting educational paths and that some of them are very demanding, even without having high access requirements. And then there are the families. They also have a very important responsibility, which is, after all, harder for us as politicians to do something about. We cannot just sit in here and decide that people should divorce to a lesser extent and that, if they have to divorce, they do so in the way that is most considerate of children. It is a responsibility that parents must shoulder. Presence and sleep are extremely important. We cannot legislate on that, and neither should we. Social media, loving guidance and space for association life are important. We have a society in Denmark where very many children have two spheres in which they travel, both the school and a club. Think about how important this is. This is not the case in all countries. In very many countries you only have one place: the school, and if you fail there, the hammer falls hard. There aren't many American youth films that aren't about how hard it is to have your whole child and young life in one place, to be one character that you can't jump out of. So remember how important society and freedom are, even though we do not sit here and legislate about it, even though we do not discuss it many times. I think it is very good that we have abolished this rule of speed, because we should not sit in here and have a lot of opinions about what young people do when they are between education, if they are not at the disadvantage of society. I can admit here from Parliament's platform that I myself spent 3 years between high school and university education, and I lived both in collective, high school and worked in psychiatry and a whole lot of other things that were not very targeted but which I think have given me something. Then allow me to draw my former colleague Søren Pind into our conversation here, because just as he walked out the door, he said something about the Left going into some self-examination about this with the young people and education policy. I do not want to interfere in that at all, but I would like to say that there may be a lack of self-examination by the centre-left who has initiated this debate. When we look at how the young people feel and how the children feel they have anxiety, and some of them are having a hard time, I think you should look at what your own role has been in it. I think you might want to take a look at that, too. Now, unfortunately, many of the rapporteurs have gone, and the leadership of the Radicals, who have invited us to the debate here, has unfortunately left, but it may be that they can get what to say get the message by other means. For who was it that decided the progress reform? Who is also responsible for some unclear structures in primary school which can cause more unrest and which have actually led to an increase in violence? Who was it that decided the learning goal management, which is, must we admit now, a little mechanical way of looking at the teaching? Who decided to measure all activities in primary school in relation to Danish and mathematics? Who abolished the class teacher function, and who has argued that a school with a hundred percent project education is good? Who has had very little focus on the family, on sleep, on digitalisation, and who has fought for there to be no or very low entry requirements for a high school, where we know that in every high school class there is around a handful of students who come out afterwards with such a bad degree that they either become unskilled or have to start a fresh start on a new youth education? Do we not lack any adult responsibility in the centre-left in terms of giving children and young people a clear framework, taking adult responsibility, telling them how things are, helping them along and guiding them? I think it has been a very good debate today and I have no objection to us looking at ourselves on the right and saying: what is our responsibility? But I also call for the centre-lefts to look at themselves and say: What is our responsibility in relation to children and young people having a good child life and a good young life? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124314	Thank you very much, Minister. There are brief comments. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124319	I do not think that the alternative has helped to adopt any of the things that the Minister has mentioned here. So I'm not going to go into that much. I fully agree that this is an adult responsibility, and I think it is also an adult responsibility that the Radicals have called for this debate today, because we in this House also have an adult responsibility. I have got a picture of what the Minister's basic attitude is like this, what the problems are in schools, and what I really want to know is what the Minister thinks should be done in concrete terms. Today I got an email, funny enough, I think it's a coincidence, but it was from two girls aged 15 from Holbæk, Emma and Shahd, they call it "and they propose what we have actually proposed in our well-being policy ourselves, namely that there should be such a check at school where you talk to the children and young people about their well-being, that is, that they have someone to talk to. They compare it to a MUS conversation, and they say that adults get such a MUS conversation, where they talk about how things are going, how you feel and something like that. That's what the two girls in the e-mail they sent me today are suggesting. Could it not be an opportunity to say that we are just trying to have some contact? For many times, this is just about dialogue and talking and finding out how young people feel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124448	Yeah, I think you can. And again, it's about the adults in general, because it's very difficult for a temp to walk right into an hour and see how Sofie or Aila or someone else is doing, and ask, "How are you feeling?" It's hard if you just met a student. So it's about continuous adults, it's about having, if not a classroom teacher, so at least some teachers who follow the students, and who in this way can keep track of how they are developed both professionally and personally, and whether they are also in a framework that they are comfortable with, and that the teachers can see it, if there arises, for example. bullying, which is devastating to the thriving. Then you have to know a community of children quite well to see it when those who balance are displaced. So for me, it's a lot about having talented, responsible adults who are with the students.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124545	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124546	I heard the Minister say that the Minister is not opposed to the fact that you could have well-being conversations with the young people not necessarily in each grade, but at least have it in school so you try to get a sense of how the individual child thrives, so it is not only about professional performance, but also about how you feel as a human being; as a child. How's my life? What am I glad about? What could I do, for example? Want me to get more of that? I know that the opportunity is there today, but it could just be important to get it as a structure, that is to say as something you should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124626	I don't think I'm gonna be making formalized well-being conversations. Because what's funny about kids is that sometimes you get under their skin right where they don't think about it. It is if you go on a trip with the school or you are at camp school or are in the middle of the gymnasium class that you find out and think: Hey, there is someone here who is not in the community who is lonely. So I think it's more about doing some activities together, for example. Know your country, which the government has supported, for children to get out of school and do something else together, cultivate the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124703	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124706	What will the Minister of Education do to counteract character races?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124716	The Minister for Education wants much more honesty in our education system, and it is here that the Liberal Alliance and Radicals are very far apart. For example, I think that we should provide much better guidance to young people when choosing youth education. I think we should have very clear access requirements, which are transparent, they should be simpler than they are today. Today, as I said, there are many young people who start high school without knowing what a mathematics B level is. And now one of the rapporteurs mentioned that there is a lot of stress in the second g. Yes, it is right where you find out that you can risk flunking mathematics B. I think it would be much better if we tutor children and young people better than what youth education contains of professional requirements. I think that will stress children and young people much less than what we see today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124807	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124810	I agree that this is what the Minister of the Liberal Alliance thinks, but I do not see how it answers the question, that is, how the Minister will counteract character races. And when I ask about it, it's because in your own text here you write: "It's also important to counteract character races that contribute to an unhealthy culture among young people. So you must think there's an unhealthy culture. So how do we counteract the character race that is?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124837	Characters are good, character races are bad. Character race occurs if you get the wrong idea that there is only one way forward, for example. The high school or some of these very attractive educations at the university. So it's about spreading the picture out and saying: Try to hear, there are many different options, and they require quite different things, and it's not that it's easy to become a plastic maker • it's actually very demanding but it doesn't require as high a cut as if you want to be a doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124906	Then it's Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125124909	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Education for the rose. I am glad that there is something here that connects us more than separating us. The minister mentions the word honesty. It is also a virtue that I attach great importance to. My father, who is now 88 years old and retired schoolteacher from the school system in Esbjerg Municipality, was a school counsellor at the time, and he had it mantra when he guided the young people that rather a large driving licence than a small baccalaureate. I totally agree with him. He was very honest with the students, who would probably not be able to walk a biblical path and thus have a career in the academic field. They became happier in another way. I pay tribute to that myself, but it requires more guidance, Madam Minister for Education, and more feedback is needed, and I can also hear the Minister for Education wishing to have and speak warmly about this, but there is a need for money to do so. How can the Minister of Education be part of a government that saves 2% annually? in youth education, and we can now understand from the Minister of Education that it will be removed by 2021 at the earliest. In fact, I can tell you that, in a conciliation procedure that I called for, the Minister for Finance of the Government has said that it is not at all possible at this stage to promise that cuts will be made there. So what does the government want and how can one possibly succeed in getting the guidance and feedback that I can understand the Minister of Education would like if there is no money for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125041	If we are talking about guidance in the primary school, the government has changed the assessment of educational readiness in such a way that it both tutors in relation to the academic subjects and in relation to practice, and that is exactly down to what we are talking about here. It is about recognising that students have many different options and many different ways, and that those who are skilled at creating something with their hands must also meet support and feedback during their school hours. We have made sure that craftsmanship and design become a trial subject, so that you can proudly enter the 8th grade and get a character also for your practical project. It is precisely about recognising that there are some children and young people who are very, very talented at something, and some who are skilled at something else, and we must not belittle it, that children can do something different.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125138	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125140	And that is fine, but as far as high school is concerned, Minister of Education, what is the situation there? I almost get tired of hearing myself say it, I have said it three times in this debate, but I say it again anyway: you are currently firing teachers in high schools, general colleges. There is absolutely no room in the budget to have guidance and feedback, so that the next generation of young people who are on their way in the system can get the necessary guidance to be able to choose according to their ambitions/skills. So I ask once again: the cuts in our education system, the 2-percent priority contribution, hit rock hard, Mrs Education Minister, also in high school; how will we get the ends to meet? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125227	I am of the opinion that this matter of guidance, where you sit for a single half hour or someone comes in with a power point, does not move very much. At least there is a lot of evidence that it does not. So the counselling must be an integral part of the teaching, and it is true both in primary and secondary schools that the opportunities that exist and are given through the subjects must also be presented as an integral part of the teaching in order to actually show up for the students and students.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125258	Thank you, Minister. In fact, we are at the end of the road. But I understand that the questioner would like to round off, so now it is the rapporteur of the questioners. Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125311	Thank you. I would just like to say a few words of thanks for this debate. In fact, I think that questions are doing something good for our debates in here, because sometimes, when we have resolutions, we just vote things down quickly, and then nothing happens, but I think that today's debate has been more valuable, and I have at least learned more about the various parties, in other words both where we agree with each other, but also where we disagree. In fact, I think it has been very good, so I would just like to thank both ministers and the rapporteurs for this debate. It may have taken a while, but I think it's been great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125351	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. So it's been a little three hours here on a Friday with a good topic. I would remind you that the vote on the proposals tabled, as mentioned earlier, will take place on Tuesday 29 January 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125417	We're just gonna have to get a little furnished around, 'cause those who've been sitting on these nice squares up front have to move so that others can get to. There's help from the MPs. It takes a little time to get packed up when you've been living here for three hours. I guess we're getting ready. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 January. We need the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Due, on the platform to justify the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125611	Thank you, President. The reason for this query debate must be seen in the light of the case of Randers, where the Danish history's not biggest, but most cruel case has taken place in court. The sentence was 1 year suspended in prison for up to several conditions. That is not something I can live with, and that is why I have raised a question debate. I look forward to a good discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125639	And before it starts, I would like to say that the rules are such that one brief question can be put to the Minister, and when we move on to the rapporteur's line, two questions can continue to be asked as usual. Then it is the Minister for the Environment and Food who has to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125125722	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for this question. The abuse of animals is a serious crime, and I fully agree that it is important that we ensure that the actual level of penalties for animal cruelty follows the intentions underlying the punishment that a unanimous Parliament adopted with the amendment of the Animal Protection Act in 2016. At that time, we sharpened the penalties for animal cruelty and for grossly reckless treatment of animals. We also tightened the penalty for second-time cases of reckless treatment of animals. The reason for the punishment was that these serious offences against animals had to be more reflected in the punishment. The indicative fines were doubled for the second time, with the amendment of the law, by the reckless treatment of animals both inside and outside the business environment. At the same time, the fines were doubled in the case of grosser reckless treatment of animals in and out of business, unless the ratio is such that it should lead to prison sentences. As far as prison sentences are concerned, we also decided that there should be a doubling. Therefore, with the amendment of the Animal Protection Act in 2016, it was agreed to raise the penal framework for grosser reckless treatment of animals from prison until 1 year to prison until 2 years. The penalty framework for reckless treatment of animals with the character of cruelty was also tightened from prison until 1 year to prison until 2 years. Examples from the case law following the punishment in 2016 show that in cases of cruelty to animals in the case of a single non-commercial animal, a penalty of 60 days in prison is given as a rule. In other words, a penalty equal to twice the starting point for the punishment for cruelty to animals before the amendment of the law is now being imposed on an indication that the level of punishment follows the intentions behind the punishment. However, it is difficult to say such a thing in general about the evolution of the actual level of penalties in all types of cases of cruelty to animals, including in cases where there are aggravating circumstances such as: mistreatment of many animals. It is only a few years since we tightened the penalties, so the case-law in this area is fortunately limited. If a relationship is so serious as to constitute abuse, prison sentences must be imposed as a starting point. In a revised Animal Protection Notice addressed to the Public Prosecutor and the Police, the Attorney General has instructed that in cases of improper treatment of animals with the character of cruelty, the prosecution should, as a starting point, claim a prison sentence of 60 days in prison. Furthermore, in the case of the removal of criminal charges by the prosecution and in the assessment and assessment of penalties by the courts, attention should be paid to the existence of aggravating circumstances which should give rise to higher penalties than the starting point. Among other things: It stresses the seriousness of the infringement, i.e. the gravity of the infringement, the extent of the infringement, for example. the number of animals, the nature of the infringement, the intention or systematic nature of the infringement and any other circumstances. In addition, as regards the development of the penalties, the Public Prosecutor's Animal Protection Notice states that, in cases of improper treatment of animals and grosser reckless treatment of animals, the Public Prosecutor must, as a starting point, claim a fine equivalent to the indicative fines laid down in the Amendment Act 2016. Furthermore, it is clear that the prosecution must always consider whether there is a basis for claiming a lower or higher fine, and that the prosecution must consider whether there is a basis for claiming a sentence of liberty in specific cases of reckless treatment or grosser reckless treatment of animals. As a starting point, a claim for a custodial sentence must correspond to twice the penalty that would have been meted out before the legal amendment in 2016. Furthermore, I note that the 2019 Finance Act establishes three specialised animal protection units in which knowledge, competences and resources in this area are gathered. The new units will investigate animal protection cases and ensure enhanced knowledge in this area, and with their particular knowledge of the Animal Protection Act, the units will know the possibilities of rapidly intervening in animal cruelty cases and ensuring effective processing in this area. In order to ensure that the actual level of penalties follows the intentions behind the 2016 law amendment, an examination of case law must be carried out and a sufficient number of cases should be included in such an investigation. It is therefore necessary to follow developments in case law for a few years to come. Therefore, with the assistance of the Minister of Justice, whose place I have been allowed to borrow today, I will examine and follow developments in case law in the coming years, so that we have a sufficiently informed basis for assessing the actual level of penalties in cases of animal cruelty. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130228	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for short comments at this stage. The minister will come back, so there will be another opportunity later, and that is the way it is. Minister means waiter, so you always have to be available. Then we will deal with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130248	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for putting this very important subject on the agenda for us. Animals in Denmark should be well, whether they are in the living room or in the stable, and the hammer should fall for those who abuse animals. When the Social Democratic Party had the power of government, we tabled a bill which we did not manage to adopt, but which was intended to ensure an appropriate punishment for animal cruelty. That bill was subsequently tabled by the V government and adopted by a broad majority here in the Folketing. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that this tightening was absolutely appropriate and we believe that we should, of course, keep a watchful eye on how animal abuse is sanctioned and how case law develops in this area. Having said that, we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the application of minimum penalties in this area. For us, this is a matter of safeguarding the division of power. Here in the Folketing we have to decide what is to be punishable and what is to be the framework for the punishment that is to be imposed, but it is therefore the judicial power which determines the penalty to be meted out in specific cases, and it must be based on the seriousness of the crime and other matters. We believe that the division of labour basically needs to be very careful to change, and that is also true in this case. So, in this context, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left, I would like to put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament rejects all forms of animal cruelty and considers that animal cruelty is a serious crime which must be taken seriously and punished in accordance with the punishment adopted by the Danish Parliament with the amendment of the Animal Protection Act in 2016. The Folketing is concerned that the doubling requested by the amendment of the law appears in the case law. Further case law is needed in order to be able to say something in general about the level of penalties in all types of cases of animal cruelty. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that the 2019 Finance Act establishes three specialised animal protection units, where knowledge, competences and resources in this area are gathered, and that the Minister for the Environment and Food has indicated that he will follow developments in the case law in the coming years to assess whether the level of penalties in animal cruelty cases reflects the punishment of 2016 and gives the Danish Parliament a status in 2020. If it turns out that the penalty has not shown itself to the desired extent, the need for further legislative initiatives will be assessed. V 58).
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130552	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130559	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Sir. Simon Kollerup mentions that we must take care of the division of three, and I fully agree with that. We have the executive, the legislature and the judiciary. However, as legislator we have the possibility of setting the framework, and when I go in and plead that we should have minimum penalties, that is part of the framework. Why does the Social Democratic Party think that it is going into the exclusive right of the courts?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130634	Well, I fully agree that we should set the framework, and I also think we should set a tough framework for this type of crime, and that is why I think it was quite reasonable that we should double the penalty back in 2016. I think that minimum penalties are really to break with the framework of our courts, because when minimum penalties are introduced, the judge is also deprived, in the specific case, of the possibility of making some balancing of matters that are included in the case, and I think that we should be very careful about that. I know that we have it in some specific areas, but to say it as it is, in my world there is a difference between gangs and peasants. It is two different groups that we work with, and we must be very careful to carry on with this with minimum penalties, for example. Agriculture or to the pet area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130721	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130725	I had to sink a second time there! We have minimum penalties in a few places. We have that in relation to the law on arms and the law on knifes, in relation to killings. What's the difference? Yes, I know there is a difference between animals and humans, but the killing of 16 dogs and the killing of 1 human being what is the difference between going in and demanding minimum penalties in both places?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130754	I think that we should be very careful about extending the use of minimum penalties. We have done so in a couple of cases, among others. in relation to the gangs, and that is why I mentioned the gangs just before, where you are in the whole area, which concerns personal crime, etc. And although both types of cases mentioned by the questioner are extremely serious and must be taken extremely seriously, I think we should always think twice before introducing minimum penalties. We can always discuss whether the penalties should be increased and in the preparatory work to the laws give indications to the judiciary so that they follow the new penalties. I think that is what we should be monitoring, and that is why the proposal for adoption, which we support, is also the framework for such monitoring, where we will receive information from the Minister in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130836	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Karina Due, the rapporteur for both the authors of the motion for a resolution and the Danish People's Party, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125130851	It was just before I fell asleep. Thank you. No, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it like that. I'd like to talk about the Randers case. I attended the trial and, in fact, I think that all animal welfare rapporteurs should try to attend such a trial. One thing is to read about a case in the newspaper or get e-mails about the various cases, but something else is to be present in the courtroom and see that there are people behind it, see these pictures of abused animals, see people who break down in the courtroom and have to go out, and see vets who are deeply professional and used to this work, sit with a lump in their throats, and who must sink sometimes before they can go further when they tell about a case; that makes an impression, I should say hello. The specific case concerns 61 dogs. The 16 of them had been killed in a rather bestially manner, most of them shot, and those who did not just die the first time were so beaten to death with a club. The surviving dogs were covered in their own feces, they had diseases and were generally in a miserable constitution. There was even one person who for a long time had a metal spring stuck inside his mouth, and this made it impossible to eat. All the surviving dogs were clearly marked by abuse, both physically and mentally. It takes years of hard work to fix such a mistreated dog and to make it well and safe again. The dog's owner was convicted of animal cruelty and of illegal slaughter and killing of animals and of illegal possession of weapons under aggravating circumstances. The sentence was a poor 1 year suspended prison and the denial of the right to deal with animals for 10 years. I've seen convictions for only illegal possession of weapons that are harder than that. In my view, the legal area for animal welfare cases is the only store to sell all year round. Can we live with that? I can't. I'm elected, and I listen to what people say. The people want more severe punishment in this area. The courts have the opportunity to judge harder, they have the opportunity to judge much harder in these horrible cases. More than two years ago, we doubled the penalty... that was something we agreed entirely on... but what good will it do if the courts do not use the tools that we legislators have given them? I in no way deny the division of power in Denmark. We are the legislative power, and then there is the executive and the judiciary, and that is how it should be, but we just have to make sure that all three bodies work in the same direction. And I don't think that's what it looks like today. And I have no problem with helping the courts on the right track if they cannot find out for themselves. I know that other parties are pouring the idea of minimum penalties completely down the board, and as an excuse for this you will certainly say that it is an expression of criticism of the courts and yes, you can bite yourselves in the tail that it is; I am not at all pale to admit that. You will certainly also say that it is not possible to legislate on the basis of a single case, and in principle I agree, but we should all bear in mind that when there is a judgment, that judgment can set a precedent for future cases. That is to say, we shall then deal with what has fallen from the judgment in this case and then put the level on the basis of it. It is simply too lame to dare to react immediately when a sentence runs completely and unfortunately in the wrong direction. The next major animal protection case, the Labrador case, where 25 labradors were found in a summer house, will be brought to trial next month. That's where I'm sitting in the courtroom too. I simply think it is my duty to find out and keep an eye on how the courts treat animals. I will read out the following proposals for adoption, which I am making on behalf of the Danish People's Party, and with which I can well sense that we are reasonably alone: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament rejects all forms of animal cruelty and considers that animal cruelty is a serious crime which must be taken seriously and punished in accordance with the penalty that the Danish Parliament adopted with the amendment to the Animal Protection Act in 2016. The Danish Parliament notes that the case law shows that in specific cases of animal cruelty there is not, as a starting point, a penalty corresponding to the one desired by the amendment of the law doubling, but that further case law is needed in order to be able to say something general about the level of punishment in all types of cases of animal cruelty. The Minister for the Environment and Food has indicated that he will follow developments in case law in the coming years to assess whether the level of penalties in animal cruelty cases reflects the severity of the 2016 sentence and gives the Danish Parliament a status in 2020. If the level of penalties does not match the doubling desired in the legislative amendment, the possibilities for further legislative initiatives will be examined, including the introduction of minimum penalties for serious cases of animal cruelty. V 57). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131446	Thank you. And that proposal will then be included in the further negotiations. There are a few brief comments, and the first one comes from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131458	In the Enhedslisten, we never advocate minimum penalties, also because there is no indication that it has a preventive effect. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not recognise that in a long, long list of animal protection cases which emerge, the animal protection cases which the police are dealing with, there are people who have mental problems, or people who may be affected by dementia, or there are cases where animal welfare has grown over their heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131529	I recognise that there are many cases involving people who, for one reason or another, suddenly are no longer able to live and therefore no longer manage their animals. Of course, this should not be an excuse for not caring for your animals, but those people need a completely different help, which is why we also need to look at the social side of it. I fully agree with that. But when I come in with minimum penalties as a proposal here, it is in cases where there is neither dementia nor anything else. It must be clear-cut and it must have been going on for many years, and in those cases I simply cannot live with the courts judging as they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131610	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131614	However, does the rapporteur not recognise that perhaps there is some sense in leaving it up to the courts to make a concrete assessment, with the reservations that are needed, rather than imposing minimum penalties, which could mean that the 75-year-old grandfather, who has become a bit of a method and is unable to take care of his Sheetlandsponyer any longer, maybe two years in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131640	No, I don't accept that, because we're not talking about a hard prison sentence in these cases. We are talking about the very rough cases, and it is not something you just get to because you have fallen off the pot or because you have come up with something in life where you no longer have the power. That is something that is going on for a long time, and it is something that is very gross.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131658	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131701	Thank you for that and just repeating my thanks to the rapporteur for raising this debate, because I mean it when I say it is an important debate, and I am also pleased to hear with my ears that the proposals for adoption are very similar but one point, and that is so minimum penalties. This, of course, leads me to ask a little about it, because is the general view of the Danish People's Party that the application of minimum penalties should be extended to more penalties, and if not, and indeed, if so, what are some factors that should trigger the introduction of minimum penalties? 'Cause it's gonna be a really, really hard balancing act. There are, of course, many crimes which could also be argued for consideration to be given to doing so if the logic advocated by the rapporteur can be spread across the whole area of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131754	In the Danish People's Party we are not against minimum penalties, and we would like to see minimum penalties spread more. In this area, which is the area in which I have the most understanding, where are we, when we have a criminal framework, and this is the most cruel case that has ever been in the history of Denmark, and we do not even go to prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131820	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131822	That's where I think we're gonna have to grab some of our own bosoms. We have the opportunity to set the penalties, we have the opportunity, in the preparatory work on legal work, to set the course for the work of the courts too, and if we do not think that it has been done well enough, then we can discuss on the basis of next year whether it needs to be tightened up further. So we stick to setting the framework, as the rapporteur himself said in the question to me just now, and that is our work. After all, I cannot help asking, because now we are saying that we are open to introducing minimum penalties in other areas, what are some factors in the other areas that would make minimum penalties relevant as well? Is it when it's dangerous? Is it when it comes to children, animals? Have any thoughts been given as to when to introduce these minimum penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131911	I will let my fellow Member, the rapporteur for the judicial area, comment on what areas it should be, but it is clear that when we talk about personal crime and something about animals and children, these are some of the places where we need to pay particular attention to the fact that the punishment that is now being given is also being applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131935	Thank you to Mrs Karina Due. We're gonna move on, and then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125131943	Thank you. As rapporteur for the Left, I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this important issue. Good animal welfare is important. I am also sure that we are all interested in the fact that people are being put in a hard and cash position against traders or others who cannot find a way to treat their animals properly. I think we all look at that very much the same way. We are also concerned about this in the Left. It should not be free to abuse animals, and therefore, as has already been demonstrated in the debate in 2016, we have introduced a tightening of the Animal Protection Act, and this tightening has worked as intended for the time being, at least in some situations, as we can see that the sentences that have fallen for violation of the Animal Protection Act are significantly harder than they were before we last amended the law. For example, in the case of animal cruelty to a single animal and in the case of non-commercial livestock, the penalty is now 60 days in which it was previously 30 days. So far there are not so many cases that we can conclude or say something quite certain about the development of penalties, but in cases where the intentions of the Folketing have been followed, it seems as a general trend, although we think that the basis is still too weak to draw conclusions. However, it is important that we follow developments in the years to come, as more judgments are passed, and that is also what we can hear that the Minister's side has now been set up, namely to follow it closely so that we can later have a stronger basis for assessing it. In Denmark, we have a good food industry, where animal welfare is very much in focus. We can be proud of that. Unfortunately, there may also be some stumbled vessels, and they must of course be severely crushed. That is why we in the Left are delighted that the rules have been tightened so that we can have a significant prison sentence so that we do not treat our animals properly when it is necessary and, moreover, the courts consider this to be abuse. Surely it is not worthwhile not to treat your animals properly. In addition to increasing the penalties for cruelty to animals, we have also stepped up our efforts on other fronts. With the Finance Act for this year three specialised animal protection units have been set up, which I also know that the Danish People's Party has been very popular in the shoes and the pioneering party for. The aim here is to collect knowledge, competences and resources in this area, and the units will be tasked with investigating animal protection cases and strengthening the knowledge available in this area. At the same time, the units will be particularly familiar with the Animal Protection Act, so that cases of cruelty to animals can be dealt with quickly. Let me therefore also stress on our behalf, on behalf of the Left, that this is an area that is important to us and we look forward to following what has also been proposed by the Minister. And, of course, we can fully support the proposal for adoption which was previously read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur. And then I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be present, and to say that, of course, they also support and support the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur has read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132312	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132316	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur speaks of, and praises, the punishment that has been given in connection with these sentences for the abuse of a single animal and says that it is clear that it has worked that 60 days from 30 days before prison sentences will now be imposed. In one case there were 61 cases of gross abuse, 16 of the animals had been killed in no legal way, but the sentenced person could then get in his car and drive home. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132400	Based on what is on the screen in public, this is an ugly matter which I do not think any of us even cares about, but we just have to be clear that punishment must also be seen over a longer period of time, and that is exactly what we have the courts for. As has also emerged from the debate, they must place emphasis on all the aspects that may be involved in a case. So I shall not be able to say what has also been of other things in this matter, but as it is presented and as it also appears in the debate, this is an ugly case which should not be there, and in such situations, of course, there must be penalties, and we have the courts to measure out those penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132436	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132440	That is to say, it is quite okay that a convicted person after such a trial can sit down and drive home in his car to the cats who, by the way, have not yet been removed from her home, because it is the court's decision, and then you waive any responsibility as a politician. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132503	I do not think that we, as politicians, are giving up our responsibilities either, because we have just responded by increasing the framework in 2016. Then you have to make an overall assessment of this, and you don't just have to look at individual cases. I think we should be very careful to look at individual cases alone in assessing whether what we have adopted now works or not. We can see that there are some trends in the direction that it seems to be working, and that is why I am very pleased with the line that the Minister has also taken, by following it here, and then we get one, we should call it a longer-term perspective and thus probably a stronger basis to assess it. But there is no doubt at all, as the rapporteur said, that animal cruelty must be punished, and it must be severely punished. So I am also looking forward to having it followed up and getting the conclusion at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132553	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's the Enhedslisten, and that's sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125132608	Of course, when animals are in human custody, they must be treated properly, and it does not matter whether they are a dog, a cat, a rabbit, or whether they are some of the millions of pigs, chickens and cattle that Danish farmers today have in their care. If you have animals in your care, you have responsibility for them, responsibility for their well-being and their thriving. Is getting a dog or two rabbits for the kids something you just do? No, of course it requires reflection and knowledge. And, of course, it must also have consequences when animals are desecrated or abused, and it is absolutely essential for animal welfare to be able to be deprived of the possibility of keeping animals if we repeatedly violate the animal protection law in a very serious way. All too often, however, animal abuse is caused by the fact that people are mentally ill or have simply become too old to care for their animals. In those cases, I simply do not believe that more severe penalties will solve anything. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that we should first have seen whether the punishments introduced in 2016 have worked. We don't believe in the • which there is no research evidence that more severe penalties should have any effect either. At the same time, the number of animal protection cases has, unfortunately, also increased since 2016, when a majority in the Danish Parliament increased the penalty. It is vital for us to have the impact of the punishments clarified, so let us see how the sentences are going to land, and let us see whether we can help people by other means, so that we avoid animal welfare cases with real animal cruelty that are rooted in mental illness or old age. I think we should be much better at paying attention when just Grandpa has become a method and may not be able to take care of her Shetland ponies, or when the neighbor's wife suddenly has thin cats running all over the place. We must dare to ask, we must also dare to intervene before things go wrong and when the task grows over the heads of someone we know. But this also requires the police to have the resources to intervene when things go wrong. Unfortunately, we see that far too many animal protection cases lie with the police for several years, and that is simply not good enough, but it is also a natural consequence, of course, when the police need to use enormous resources to create border controls and at the same time have been severely curtailed over the past many years. It is the view of Enhedslisten that it is not only the punishment that is the problem when it comes to cruelty and gross and reckless treatment of animals. The problem is just as much that all too rarely indictments are being made in animal abuse cases, because the problem is, among other things, that, if there is to be a case, we should actually have bodies on the table today. In other words, there must be dead animals in the case before a charge is brought for serious and reckless treatment of animals. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we believe that this debate is also about the fact that the possibilities offered by the Animal Protection Act should be exploited much more frequently. This applies to charges, penalties, prison sentences and something that is absolutely crucial, namely the denial of the right to deal with animals if the offence is repeated or is of a particularly serious nature. But this debate should not just be about punishment either. Many millions of animals are fattened each year under wretched conditions in cramped stables in the countryside. Their situation in the legislative sense is not animal cruelty, but it is also far from good animal welfare. If we really want to ensure better animal welfare in this country, then let us raise the bar there, raise the bar so that all animals can get out into the field and run so that they can mud bathe so that they can bite in fresh grass or dust baths. Here ecology is a very clear and important lever for better animal welfare, which is why I would very much like to encourage the initiator of this question debate to help promote ecology even more. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. Finally, I would also like to say very clearly that we will not be voting for minimum penalties or stricter penalties for animal cruelty until we have clarified where the increased penalties from 2016 land. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative, I shall make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament believes that cruelty and reckless treatment of animals are serious offences both in industrial food production and in pets, and that the level of penalties in animal abuse cases must reflect the gravity of the offence. However, it is the view of the Folketing that it is not only the punishment that is the problem when it comes to cruelty and grossly irresponsible treatment of animals, but that the problem is just as much that all too rarely indictments are made in animal welfare cases. For this reason, the Folketing believes that it is not only attractive to raise the level of penalties, but that it is also necessary that the possibilities offered by the Animal Protection Act are used much more frequently, both in the case of charges, fines, prison sentences and as a crucial possibility to deny persons the possibility of keeping animals if the offence is repeated or particularly serious in first cases. • V 59).
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133128	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is, of course, part of the ongoing negotiations. There is just one brief comment. Mrs. Karina Due, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133136	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur speaks a lot about the scarce resources of the police. Now we have finally got our animal police no, I must not call it animal welfare units, otherwise the minister's a little bit insulted if it is so that I do not call it the right thing. So I choose to call it animal protection units in this forum. Now we've finally got it trumped through, and I'm really, really happy about that, but we can also talk a little bit about what came first, the chicken or the egg? If it is the case that you do not want to press charges from animal protection units, could it be because you can look at the sentences that have been that we do not have the option of being punished, so that is a little bit, is it one thing or the other? Will the rapporteur agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133232	I think we should let the 2016 agreement run a little bit and see where the penalty level is going. In addition to that, however, I would like to point out again, as I said in my own question to the rapporteur, that I think we should bring in all the parameters here, because we know that in a long, long series of these cases it is a question of mental illness or old age, and that must be a consideration that must be taken into account. It is not to belittle that there are animals being abused. Of course, you have to be punished for that. And, of course, we must also ensure that there are the police resources to be able to take these cases, go out to check on the animals as soon as it is reported, and that is unfortunately a challenge today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133316	With that, we thank Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, and we pass the baton on to Mr. Carsten Bach, and this is the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133326	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. After all, we all have an interest as human beings in treating animals and, incidentally, all other living beings properly. There is, of course, a moral interest in this, but there is also an economic interest, as Danish agricultural products are in demand throughout the world, among others. because of very, very high animal welfare in Danish agriculture. That is why the Liberal Alliance also voted in favour of the punishment for animal cruelty adopted in this Chamber in 2016, which has been mentioned several times here today, and which in reality is the basis for the debate. It is of course important that we also follow it up, so thank you to the Danish People's Party for being a Gatekeeper in this regard. And what we need to follow up is whether the punishments in the legislation have also had an effect in the courts. Whether it is possible to make such an assessment even now with such a relatively limited case-law, I do not think I will be wise, but I fully agree with the Minister and several other rapporteurs before me that this is a development that we must certainly follow very closely. Of course, I have full confidence that the government and the minister will do so. In fact, I also think that the government can be commended for having already done a great deal for animal welfare, and there are, of course, among others. As the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has just mentioned, three specialised animal protection units have been set up. This is something for which the Danish People's Party, as you know, has been fighting for years. To conclude, I would just like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which the Social Democrat rapporteur read out earlier from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133543	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133554	Thank you. When we have animals in our care, we have a special responsibility to be an adult. There is a lot of ethics in this area, but fortunately there are also relatively clear rules, at least more or less. In general, it is important to me that rules are observed and enforced and that infringements are prosecuted. This also applies to animal welfare. We keep animals and pets in many different ways, and the conditions under which animals live in Denmark are quite diversely regulated from the loose for pets to the very precise for farm animals. I can then disagree with many of the current rules, but that is a slightly different story from what we are talking about here today. There should be balance in things. We should see the proportions of our rules and enforcement, and that is why the increased penalties that we received in 2016 can be fine, but definite minimum penalties in this area are too much for me. And I'd like to elaborate on that. The case from Randers is creepy. And I may wonder about the verdict, just as I wondered about the verdict of the man who shot a wolf in 2018. But it is up to the judiciary to measure and render judgment, and it is important to respect this. The trial is very thorough and can, for example, be carried out. take into account social, personal and psychological conditions which may sharpen or appease the assessment of the judgment. These considerations can be very complex and difficult for the public to understand and balance the details of the case we have the courts to deal with. Both the Minister and the Danish Parliament must, of course, monitor the area and see how it develops as the penalty framework has increased. That is why the alternative is in agreement with the proposal for adoption, which the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten read out just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133758	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125133807	Thank you. After all, the amendment of the law on a penalty for violation of the Animal Protection Act in cases of cruelty to animals entered into force on 1 July 2016 and had the entire Danish Parliament behind it. This was a positive step for animal welfare. In this question debate, Dansk Folkeparti follows up on whether the positive intentions behind the extension of the penal framework have been demonstrated in practice. Unfortunately, there are still horrible examples of animal cruelty and widespread neglect, so thank you for focusing on animal welfare here in Parliament. The SF supports the fact that we have a level of punishment that is actually in line with the gravity of animal cruelty, but the problems are solved, as has been said before, not only by a higher penalty framework. The possibilities provided for in the Animal Protection Act should be exploited in terms of both indictment and indictment, fines and prison sentences and denying the possibility of keeping animals. Then I think we should also remember that when we discuss animal welfare, it should apply to all animals, whether it be farm animals or pets. It should also apply to the thousands of animals transported over shorter or longer distances, some of which die along the way or have to be killed along the way and where the controls and sanctions are inadequate. When we humans hold animals in captivity, we have a very special obligation to ensure them proper conditions, and that is therefore, whether they are dogs, cats, pigs, chickens or cows. So I am in favour of following up on this, but I think it should not be the case that it is simply because of individual cases; it must also be the broad animal welfare agenda that we must stand together on, because I very much agree with what several of the rapporteurs have said about dealing with a single judgment. I am also outraged by what I am also shocked by the fact that it is possible to do so at all, and I am actually incredibly outraged by the fact that no one is discovering such a thing. Well, how can it be that the society that is has not responded? I mean, how can people go so much in dogs... excuse the expression... that they can abuse animals in such a way? Well, those people probably have some other problems too. I am surprised that this can be done and that what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said has been going on for years. Well, why isn't something happening? It is in the same way that I cannot understand it when there are attacks on children for years without anyone discovering it; then I do not understand it here either. So that is where we have a special obligation, and I think we should actually use some energy on that too, in other words how we actually make sure we discover these matters and intervene in time both to help the people who are in that situation, but also, of course, to protect the animals who are being subjected to abuse and neglect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134116	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134119	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In principle, I agree that we should not legislate on a case-by-case basis. But this case is the most violent and horrifying in the history of Denmark, and then the question is whether it could not be risked as a precedent for subsequent judgments. Is the rapporteur not afraid of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134151	Yes, but I haven't gone all the way down to the details, and I've been looking at what kind of relationships you've been working on. And, as has also been said several times, it is up to the courts to weigh different considerations against each other when they measure the penalty. So when we read about such judgments and cannot understand them, we also need to be really careful about what they are for some, what can be said, attenuating circumstances that lie, or considerations that are taken into account, by the way. Because that is the task of the courts. That is what is so difficult for us to legislate on. It is a fundamental part of the division of power that in here we set the framework for the work of the courts, but it is the courts that have the freedom to decide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134234	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have actually reached the point where we need the Minister for the Environment and Food back on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134245	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank all good colleagues for a very good debate and a necessary debate. There is no doubt, for me at least, that all parties in the Folketing agree that cruelty to animals is a serious crime which must be taken seriously and that it must of course be ensured that the punishment that the Danish Parliament agreed to adopt in 2016 must also be reflected in the case law. I think it is a good thing to have such a debate here, because, on the one hand, it is obvious that this is something that we all think is terrible and, on the other hand, it might be possible to think whether it is necessary to make the obvious clear, but it is actually very good just to get a line under why we have made such a punishment and, on the other hand, we are getting a line under the fact that it is actually something we are serious about. So I would really like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. It also signals that we on the part of the Danish Parliament, the legislators, are following this with some attention. Then we have dealt with various issues such as the division of power, the precedent, the minimum penalties and the whole purpose of punishment, and what Enhedslisten also mentioned, namely whether it actually has a preventive effect if the underlying causes are in fact some other ones. Mrs Trine Torp also referred to the fact that it may be other unfortunate circumstances that lie behind the fact that people are getting into trouble and that it brings with it this sort of thing. I actually share the view and think: I wonder whether, in order to prevent people from reaching such a morass, it would make a difference, whether the penalty is harsh or mild, or how long it is or is minimum something. I don't think so. I also think it has been good to have such a small discussion about this with our responsibility to keep an eye on each other, and that it is not only the responsibility of legislators and society, but that it is also the responsibility of close society that we should look at how things really are going. We have received from Mrs Karina Due a scary description of a specific case, I think. I had it described before, and it wasn't nicer the second time. There seems to be broad support in the Folketing to investigate and follow the development of the case law so that we get one, we should say enlightened basis for assessing whether the actual level of punishment in all types of cases of animal cruelty reflects the punishment that we adopted in 2016. I agree with the majority that does not believe that we currently have sufficient information to propose concrete further tightening of penalties in the legislation. Therefore, as I mentioned in my first speech, with the assistance of the Minister of Justice, I will examine and follow developments in case law in the coming years. And a quiet hope on my part is that there will be a very, very long way between that case-law, because that will mean that we will not have to look at such cases here. I can inform you that the Ministry of Justice has already asked the prosecution to follow developments in case law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134621	With that, we thank the Minister for Food. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would remind you that the vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Tuesday 29 January 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190125134651	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 29 January 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
