ParlaMint-DK_20190228100021	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill no. L 190 (Proposal for a Law amending the Companies Act and the Financial Statements Act. Minister for the Environment and Food (Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen): Bill No. L 191 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Bill No. L 192 (Proposal for a law on animal welfare). Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 193 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Scientific Treatment of Health Research Projects and the Health Act. Bill No. L 194 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Health and the Law on the Authorisation of Health Professionals and Health Care. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the allocation of aids to citizens on the basis of qualitative criteria and on the presentation of the elections pursuant to Article 112 of the Services Act). Pelle Dragsted (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 111 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a group of experts to draw up models for a publicly operated bank) and motion for a resolution No. B 112 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a structural commission to assess possibilities for the division of systemically important financial institutions). Karsten Hønge (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 113 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on punishment, etc.) (The sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) B 115 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the provisions of the Criminal Code on trafficking in human beings). Pernille Bendixen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 114 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on child certificates). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Eva Kjer Hansen) has informed me that she wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on perspective and action plan 2019. R 10). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 26 March 2019. I have been informed by the Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov) that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on Denmark's Digital Growth. R 9). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100303	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100330	Member of the Folketing Sjúrður Skaale applied for leave from 28 February 2019, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100413	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of Javnaðarflokkurin in the Faroe Islands, Rigmor Dam, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 28 February 2019 on the occasion of Sjúrður Skaale's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that he does not wish to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100443	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 106 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100510	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 81 by Mikkel Dencker (DF), Thomas Danielsen (V), Carsten Bach (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF). The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 81 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 80 by Jens Joel (S), Pernille Skipper (EL), Uffe Elbæk (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100630	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100653	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party, and voting is possible. In order for no one to be in doubt, I was just told that I guess I was going to say L 130, but that's L 133. The vote will end. In favour 68 (S, DF, EL, Carsten Bach (LA), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and SF), against 38 (V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100744	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100751	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 64 (S, DF, EL and SF), against 41 (V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100833	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100900	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100933	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228100951	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101019	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101038	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101109	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101126	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 22 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101154	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101209	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101240	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101259	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101326	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101345	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 31 (DF and EL), against 73 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101421	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101442	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 31 (DF and EL), against 72 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101537	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 31 (DF and EL), against 73 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101734	The debate is open. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228101753	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution, because it gives me, for the second time in a short space of time, the opportunity to discuss issues relating to the EU budget in this Chamber. The Government agrees that there is a clear potential to review and reform the EU's staff and administration policy and that this should be done in a way that can reduce EU Member States' contributions. There is nothing new about that. Over the last 15 years, there has been a consistent and persistent line of action from successive governments, with the support of the parliamentary parties, which we have pursued with the most ambitious reform agenda among the EU Member States for EU personnel and pay policy. That agenda continues to pursue the government, and we do so for two purposes. Firstly, we believe that the net remuneration of EU employees must be fair and a combined effect of wages, salaries and allowances, which, with low effective tax rates, means that there is a potential to reduce EU spending in this area. The result of this will help to reduce the Member States' EU contributions, as requested in the motion for a resolution. Secondly, it is the government's clear objective of the reform agenda that we are pursuing that modernising the salary and employment conditions for EU staff should help to support a more effective task-taking in the EU institutions. There is simply a need for a fight with rigid career structures and a remuneration system that is too much based on seniority and does not ensure the necessary link between pay and performance. The duality in terms of demands for budgetary improvements and modernisations is essential because, in my view, this is the right way to look at the issue and because it is a continuation of the line that the Folketing has consistently pursued for nearly a few decades. On the other hand, the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution puts an end to the consistent line by looking too unilaterally only at the budgetary angle. And it is not only in relation to the objective, but perhaps also in relation to the proposed instrument of the resolution, that the government has its doubts. I am therefore not convinced that taxation in particular should be the right means of achieving the Danish negotiating objectives. The marginal tax rate for the highest incomes in the EU system is theoretically 52 per cent. It is certainly slightly lower than the marginal tax rate for a Dane who pays top tax, but in a European context the tax rate is not in itself a place where it provides the basis for frowns. The problem lies, on the other hand, in the deductions, increases and general remuneration structure of the European Commission, which means that only a small part of gross income is actually taxed. This means that in the vast majority of cases the effective tax rate is significantly lower than what the tax rate actually says. Of course, this can be addressed by simply increasing the tax base, as proposed in the motion for a resolution, but is it not a little more effective and, in fact, more reasonable to look at the remuneration itself? Let me give you a concrete example. A Dane who is employed by the European Commission in Brussels receives, in addition to his taxable basic salary, a considerable non-taxable supplement. The allowance shall be granted to EU staff working in an EU country other than their country of origin and shall be limited in time. This means, in practice, that even after 10, 20, 30 years in Brussels, the aforementioned Dane is compensated for a tax-free supplement for genes that should be placed on an outpost. If we were to follow the logic of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, we would have to go to the Council and enter into negotiations and change the tax rules by allowing the excess to be taxed in the future. We believe that it is far more feasible, credible and reasonable to pursue the long-standing Danish negotiating approach, namely that there should simply be a phasing-out of the out allowance for employees who have been at the same place of employment for a long time. The government recognises that there is also a need to look at the taxation of EU wages as part of the toolbox, but it will hardly be the most effective tool to achieve the Danish negotiating goals. Overall, we in the government believe that both the objective and the means of the resolution create an inappropriate distortion of the reform agenda, which has been backed by a broad majority in the Folketing for many years. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. And let me briefly summarize why. Firstly, the government considers that the Enhedslisten focuses too unilaterally on a reform of staff and pay policy as an instrument for achieving budget improvements. As in the past, the Danish negotiating approach should have a dual focus, where it is equally important that a reform agenda creates a modern and more efficient EU administration. Secondly, the government does not agree that one particular screw in terms of taxation rules, which is hardly the most effective or most realistic in terms of negotiation, should be given a special status in the form of a parliamentary decision. Finally, let me highlight a third reason why we cannot support it. The government simply does not share the premise of the motion for a resolution, which represents the EU's employees as well, and now I quote: a mixed core of pamps with often exorbitantly high wages. Quote out. EU cooperation is an important foundation for Danish prosperity and prosperity, and the employees of the EU institutions are crucial to making the wheels spin around. Any debate on this subject should therefore take place on an objective and reasonable basis, and I therefore do not believe that motion for a resolution B 68 contributes to this objective debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102345	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102348	One of the problems in this area is that many of the information is not available. It is not possible to obtain information on the precise wage calculations made, on the appendices and so on. That is why I would just like to ask whether we can get an assurance from the Finance Minister here that between the first and second readings we will be able to obtain all the information we would like, about the pay conditions for employees in the European Union, or whether there are still things that need to be secret. Of course, I'm not talking about personal data. I'm only talking about general categories.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102427	I have no wish to hold back any information that we have the right to present under the current employment law. So I would like to give the undertaking that, within the framework of ordinary employment law, I would like to ensure maximum transparency in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102445	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102446	Thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102451	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102507	We in the Social Democratic Party agree that we should look at reforming the EU's personnel and pay policy. It must be more transparent and effective, also to reduce the contribution of the countries. We want to continue this line, but we believe that the problem lies in deductions and supplements and unfair rules, and that is something that changing governments have addressed. That is why we cannot support the proposal. We want to focus on something other than taxes and to reform the European Union in more areas than just that, and we also do not share the fundamental scepticism of the Enhedslisten with regard to everything that has to do with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102542	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102546	It is just because I understand that the Socialist rapporteur's criticism of this proposal is that it is too limited, that is that the problem is that it is simply not comprehensive enough. It is an all too small corner; it should have been much more profound in terms of reforming these very high salaries in the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102609	No, what we're saying is that changing governments have tackled this. But this puts the government in a certain negotiating position when you talk about this. Then it is no secret that anything that has anything to do with the European Union does not like Enhedslisten. Proposals on proposals are about something that is bad about the European Union. In line with what the Minister of Finance said, we in the Social Democrat Party also do not recognise the image of EU employees as a collection of pampers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102636	Does the Social Democrats not recognise the image of employees, particularly at a slightly higher level in the EU system, as people who receive a totally exorbitant salary, compared to what applies to other ordinary people in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102652	Yeah, but there's a difference between it and, so to speak, the employees are a bunch of pamps. Now I heard before that it was a travel circus and a circle of money. As I understood the Minister for Finance, it is also something that is being looked at by the Danish side. This is also something the previous government has looked at and it has wanted to slim down and make the EU system more efficient. However, we may not have to draw this very caricature of both EU politicians and those employed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102713	Thank you. There are no further comments. We move on to Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102721	Thank you. The Danish People's Party agrees with the proposers that it is a problem that EU employees are taxed at particularly low EU rates, regardless of whether they are employed in Brussels or for example. at a representative office in the various EU countries. The proposal mentions a tax level of around 15%. However, we believe that the problem on the part of the proposers is being attacked in a somewhat backward way. The proposers recognize that the problem cannot be solved by, for example: just that income tax Danish employees, so that they, like Danish MEPs, who are taxed both by the EU and by the national authorities, receive a tax payment which will be the same as a Danish employee, since EU employees are explicitly exempt from national income tax on their basic salary and supplements. The proposers thus recognise that the solution must be found in the European Union. However, if solutions are to be found by the European Union, we would prefer to point out the straight way ahead of the winding and winding road by taxing EU employees in line with what is normal and subsequently returning the extra revenue to Denmark. But why not make it easy? By demanding the right to tax employees, the EU really behaves like a state, and why not do away with it and abolish the EU's ability to tax their employees? Thus, an official of the European Parliament in Brussels who lives there will have to pay tax in Belgium. An employee of the EU's representation in Copenhagen will have to pay tax in Denmark and so on. This, in the view of the Danish People's Party, makes much more sense. The motion for a resolution should therefore rather be that the Folketing obliged the government to work in the EU to abolish EU taxation on employees. The lack of income for the EU system from tax payments can then be saved by reducing expenditure in the EU budget. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, there is something fundamentally wrong with the EU levying taxes on employees. It is a national task, not a task for an international organisation, unless it has the ambition to become a state, and we do not want the European Union to stay that way in DF. Now, however, the resolution before us is a step in a more reasonable direction, and the proposal, as presented and adopted, will mean a lower contribution by the Member States to the EU budget and, for these very specific reasons, the DF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102937	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228102940	I just want to know whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party agrees with Enhedslisten in or with me that when it says that the proposal is that employees of the EU institutions will pay income tax and labour market contributions at the same level as other citizens of the EU countries, then it also opens up the possibility that this may imply the possibility that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen mentions, especially because the proposal says that different methods can be chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103010	Then I might agree, or DF might agree. But, as I said, the authors of the proposals are making a rather roundabout path, so as to achieve the same result. There is what we in the DF are thinking: why not do it the straight way? This jumping over where the fence is lowest isn't always the worst idea. But we reach, you might say, the same goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103035	Sir. Søren Søndergaard? No. There are no further comments. Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103047	Thank you. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for once again raising the debate on the EU budget. Was it a few weeks ago we last stood here? At that time, it was about taxation of MEPs' contributions to general expenditure. Today, the Enhedslisten proposes to change the taxation rules for employees in the EU institutions. Let me make it clear that, in the Left, we believe, quite in line with the Enhedslisten, that there is a potential to look at the EU's staff and administration policy. However, I strongly reject the premise which, as far as I am concerned, pervades the whole motion for a resolution. I am thinking here of Enhedslisten's quite unveiled war against public servants. It is clear that you must go to war with them if only they are employed in the European Union, where they are described as a piecemeal core of pamps with often exorbitantly high wages. I simply do not think that is a fair interpretation. I do not think that is fair, and I would just like to point out that without the staff of the EU institutions, I have a little difficulty in imagining how the wheels would be running around. Having said that, we do not believe that we should break with the long-standing reform agenda in relation to the EU's staff and pay policy pursued by the government. It is an agenda that aims both to reduce EU spending and to ensure a necessary link between pay and performance. And, by the way, it is an agenda that has broad support here in the Folketing. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution puts an end to the sensible line taken by the Folketing for many years now, and we in the Left see no reason to do so. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103237	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103240	I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that the proposal does not say that EU employees are a bunch of co-eating pampers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103250	The motion for a resolution states the following: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 37 [...] The EU's bureaucracy for many often appears to be a piecemeal core of pamphlets. This view is supported by the often exorbitantly high salaries paid to EU employees. So I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103311	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103316	I'm just gonna ask you once again, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen to confirm that the proposal does not say that EU employees are a bunch of co-eating pampers. That is simply not in the proposal. The minister also claimed it. That is simply not in the proposal. It's something else that says, and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen just read it out. It is worrying that the ability to read or understand what you read is so limited. But try again, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, to read out what it says. It does not say that the proposers say that EU employees are a bunch of co-eating pampers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103348	Oh, that's too smart. That's too clever, and Mr. Simpson knows that. Søren Søndergaard also very well. Well, it says that they appear as a congruent bunch of pampers with exorbitantly high wages. That's very clever. This is like saying that Enhedslisten appears like a bunch of monk marxists who have not understood that we have entered the new millennium. But I never said that. I just said that that's how they appear. Well, it's a trick too smart, and sir knows that. Søren Søndergaard also well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103411	I noticed there was a smile, and it was good. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103418	Thank you. This is an exciting debate. In the Liberal Alliance we are, in fact, covered very well by what previous rapporteurs have said: both the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left and, incidentally, also the Social Democrat rapporteur. We do not disagree, as the other rapporteurs do, with the need for reform and modernisation both of the EU's staff and administration policy and, in other areas of the European Union as well. Nor do we believe that the content of this resolution that we are debating now is appropriate in relation to the reform agenda that we are concerned with and which the government and, indeed, previous governments have been pursuing for many years. We think it is sensible, as the Minister also mentioned, to look at the appendices and look at whether some of them should not be phased out instead of just raising the tax rate. But we share the intention, and it is good to have a debate on it, and it is good to focus on it, but we do not support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103525	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103537	I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for a sensible and very relevant illustration of this problem, as it is then that something may seem exorbitantly unfair and as direct misuse of funds sometimes. That is not in the motion for a resolution. It is my interpretation that when you stand and look at a system that you actually put money in and that you are part of from Danish and as a Danish citizen, it may seem that way. We are, of course, part of the European Community, so we must ensure that there is the best possible communication and understanding of how that system works. There is this motion for a resolution very fine. In the alternative, we fully agree with and would like to support the part of the proposal that ensures full transparency of employees' salaries in the EU system. This is the first step towards having a common analysis to speak from, I think. So we're gonna have to get that. Otherwise, I would like to join the Minister for Finance's speech. I think it was very appropriate in relation to the work being done. From within, my opinion, from different sets of different party colors that have had government power, is to reform the salaries and levels of this system, which, in my view, in very many respects is something that we cannot support in the alternative. It is simply not a system that we can stand up to in terms of expenditure if we dig into the substance of many of the details of the EU system. This will also be the case in the Folketing when you start looking at whether it is all right and fair. I guess it's not here either. However, in the EU system, we must ensure that people here in Denmark too are given the impression that it is therefore useful to be part of the European Union. And it does. That is why it is a little too bad, and it should then be my appeal to the resolution here that we always find all the negative aspects of our European cooperation and focus on it. There may be political intentions, there may be politically sound reasons to focus on this because one is simply opposed to EU cooperation. But it will be a fantastic election campaign for the European Parliament if we try to ensure on the common front that x percent of the dialogue that is going to be is about all the good that is about cooperation. Because that may be what you don't always notice in everyday life. So thank you for saying at the end of the motion for a resolution that, of course, it must be fair and reasonable that what is now lost as an employee there can be in flexibility, time, one and the other must be compensated for. It is not the sort of squeezing that is being proposed, and that is why we must, of course, take care of the words we use. So we're against the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103816	Thank you. I do not see a rapporteur for the Radical Left, the SF or the Conservative People's Party, so that is why it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228103831	Thank you. I can see that the kind of revolutionary aura around the Enhedslisten is completely disappearing. In other words, we are making one proposal after another, including that which does not go far enough: that is all, too limited, we say, and all too small, it only addresses a small corner we should have taken it all with. And, yes, that's the way it is. However, when we have chosen to do so, it is because we were inspired by SF, which has not had the opportunity to be here today. For the SF actually made the same proposal in the parliamentary year 1997-98, and it's just I have to figure it out in my head about 21 years ago. And then we can say: what has happened during the 21 years of silent work within the system? Yeah, well, it's very limited what's happened. I must also acknowledge in this close context and in this limited House that the initial wording of the proposal has actually also been stolen from the SF. For the proposer, and it was Aage Frandsen, wrote: For many, the EU bureaucracy appears to be a piecemeal core of pamphlets. And that wording could not be repeated, because that is precisely the point: whether you are for the European Union or against the European Union, or you are very enthusiastic about the European Union or very critical of the European Union, the European Union appears to a very large number of people, partly as something terribly remote and partly as something terribly closed, partly as something very lucrative for those in the system. It appears in a certain way. And there, I think, there should be a common interest in the European Union whether you are an opponent or a supporter, whether you are a critic or a very, very enthusiastic person, that the European Union did not appear in this way. Because then we could discuss the real political issues. And one of the ways in which action could be taken to ensure that the European Union did not appear in this way was actually to do something effective about the exorbitantly high salaries, including those that exist in the EU system. And, as the SF pointed out 21 years ago, which, despite the great consensus that appears to be in this Chamber, and the great work that changing governments have done most in silence, has not led to any result whatsoever. For the reality remains grotesquely high wages in the EU system. Reality remains grotesquely high supplement. This is partly due to the fact that you are exempt from national income tax on basic wages and supplements, where you have an EU tax of 14 per cent, and this also applies to EU employees in Denmark, where we have calculated that if you earn 83,000 DKK, you pay 15 per cent. It may be that the calculation is wrong, and therefore I was very pleased with the commitment we received from the Minister for Finance that all the figures available and where, of course, they do not conflict with the terms of employment of individual persons will be presented in the coming period when we ask about it. In fact, it may be quite difficult to see what wage conditions actually exist. We can only see that the difference is enormous. I mean, people at that level of pay in Denmark would fortunately have to pay top taxes. There may then be differences of opinion on this, but the difference is at least enormous. That's why we think it's relevant to encourage us to work for this equality. And we write very clearly in the proposal that we do not attach ourselves to any particular model. In other words, we want to give the government freedom of model, and it is clear that if you want to go another way and perhaps a more straightforward way and say that there should not be any tax at EU level at all, that is also an option within the framework of this proposal. For this proposal, as it stands, aims to ensure that employees of EU institutions pay income tax and labour market contributions at the same level as other citizens of EU countries. That is the starting point for this proposal. The proposal also states that the money should be returned to the Member States through a lower quota. We think this is an important part of it; in fact, it is also to counter the attitude that many people have that money flows just like milk and honey in the European Union. I would like to say, as an opponent of the basic Treaty of the European Union, that sometimes the criticism directed at the European Union is unfair. I mean, like... I would say that the idea of huge bureaucracy is not really that. You can discuss what people do and what they do and whether they should do something else instead. It's okay. An institution of this size must, of course, have some employees, and if they do what they agree to do and which goes in that direction, then it is not in itself wrong. So it can also be said that the exorbitant high wages and supplements are helping to lay something for hatred that should actually be accepted as long as we have chosen to be a member of that association. That, of course, is also why a premise for this is that we need more openness. And then we hope that this proposal will contribute to that and that we can have a few more answers between the first and second readings, and then we will have the discussion at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104439	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104442	All I have to do is understand Enhedslisten's point of view. So, Enhedslisten thinks that they are contributing to this idea that you have some pampers sitting there, who are shoveling in money and not doing the work of the day, know what they are writing here in their motion for a resolution, or that they are helping to counteract the perception of what they are writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104508	We can't hide the truth. We cannot hide the part of the truth of the fact that there are exorbitantly high wages in the EU system which are completely out of line with the Member States. We can't hide that truth. Nor can we hide the fact that, because of that, there are a great many who see the European Union as a mixed-eat club of pampers. Well, we can't hide that. And I think it would be really stupid to say ssh, ssh, and that we shouldn't say that, and then it probably disappears. I think that would be a really stupid idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104541	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104542	So the truth is, it's a concocted core of pamphlets, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104550	The truth is that it is an institution where there is an exorbitant high remuneration completely out of step with the Member States, completely out of step with what ordinary people earn and what ordinary people think is reasonable. And it gives an image that puts the entire institution for hatred, also in areas where, as I said before, it is not reasonable. I think I have mentioned something earlier in this context, namely that one of my best colleagues, when I was in the European Parliament, was a German conservative, Mrs Ingeborg Grässle, who was extremely EU-positive, but where we just worked together from different points of view that things should be proper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104635	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104638	I would like to begin by acknowledging that the rapporteur has far, far more knowledge in this area than I do, in that the rapporteur, among other things, has. has been in the European Parliament. However, when we go a little hard on the proposal here by the Alternative, it is because we trust that work is actually under way. I can then hear that the rapporteur thinks that the reforms that have been made have gone very quietly in relation to meeting this problem which Enhedslisten wants to overcome by looking at tax rates. My question to the rapporteur would be: if we now had an undertaking that this resolution could come into being, that is to say that the government would continue to work on it, would it not be a problem for the employees of the EU system to be matched, for example, by taxes in their own country in a way that is very different, because tax rates are very different in countries? I agree that the motion for a resolution also states that it must be some kind of median of something that is similar to the general level. But my question is: would it be reasonable if, as an employee of the EU system, we were to have to pay tax after Danish or Romanian or Italian, if we were to actually do the same work for the whole of the Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104745	First of all, I would like to say that I do not think the alternative has gone hard on the proposal at all. On the contrary, I think there was an understanding of the proposal. So in relation to the second point, I remember that this is a discussion we also had on the salaries of the European Parliamentarians. It was then said that the European Parliamentarians are doing the same thing, and that is why they must have the same thing. Then we were some others who said no, because the European Parliamentarians represent their people, and that is why they must have what the national parliaments get. That is why I decided not to get a salary increase, so that I could stay at the level that Members of Parliament were at, by the way, because I thought it was crazy if I, as a representative of Danish voters, should have much more than those elected to the Folketing. The problem does not arise in relation to those working in the Member States. Does the problem arise in relation to those working in Brussels? No, it doesn't, because if you find some median wage, you can, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that they live and work in Brussels and that you can then take Belgian tax. That is where they are, and there are clearly some extras and some supplements etc., but it was a model. So that model can easily be found. That is what we are proposing, by the way, for freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104859	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104901	As far as entering into this dialogue is concerned, I agree with some of the other rapporteurs that it is not exactly conducive to confidence in the EU system when you make such a proposal here. Conversely, I would also like to say that I am actually very much in favour of getting the skeletons out of the closet so that we can look at it honestly. So I agree that we should also use harsh words. I think it might be inappropriate to drag in such an old quote if the rapporteur does not even measure up to what it says. I do not really see that the rapporteur does, but he refers to the fact that it is an old SF quote which says that it is understood as a bunch of pampers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104946	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228104947	I'm totally on the mark for that quote, because that's how people see it. People, who are people? A lot of people don't see it that way. Many people see everything in the European Union as wonderful and there are no problems and people have a low salary. I'm sure there is. However, I would say that there are also a great many people who see that it is as the SF wrote 21 years ago. We still have the impression that it is perceived as and that it appears as a piecemeal core. I will stand by that completely. And the sooner you get something done about Enhedslisten's proposal here, the sooner we can get rid of that understanding among people. But it's probably gonna take the pace to get up. It's been 21 years and nothing has happened. It can't go on, can it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105037	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the European Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105050	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105114	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to discuss the refund and compensation system. After all, we now have a simple and transparent reimbursement system that has given municipalities a strong incentive over the last three years to invest targeted in getting citizens quickly into employment and away from public support. But the reimbursement reform is not alone. With the simplification of the economic governance that will have effect here from 2019, the municipalities are given a more unambiguous incentive to set in motion the efforts that have the best effects. With the simplification of employment efforts, where most of the legislation that is being put forward in a short space of time will have to come into force, we will give the municipalities greater freedom to organise their efforts according to what makes the most sense to the citizens. But it's freedom under responsibility. We are going to follow the efforts in the country's municipalities closely. A reinforced follow-up to the efforts of the municipalities will be introduced, where it will be possible to take action against the municipalities that do not fulfil their responsibilities. The reimbursement reform, which forms the basis of the current reimbursement system, was adopted with broad support from the Danish Parliament's parties in 2015 and entered into force in 2016. The reimbursement reform follows the recommendations of both the Labour Market Commission and the Carsten Koch Committee. The experts then pointed out that the reimbursement system must be simple and ensure that the country's municipalities act in accordance with the interests of both citizens and society. This is best ensured by a refund system whereby, irrespective of benefits and the choice of action, the rate of reimbursement is gradually reduced with the duration of the individual on public support. That was a conclusion from both committees. Their arguments for the model were that it gives municipalities a clear incentive to get citizens into employment and to prevent them from ending up on long-term public support. At the same time, the model is a clash with short-term cash-flow thinking, whereby citizens are granted a certain benefit solely to obtain a higher refund. In a refund system whereby the state reimburses in kroner and ear, as proposed in the motion for a resolution, the municipalities' public support costs will be the same across all benefits. There will continue to be high and low compensation, but the financial burden of the municipalities will be the same across benefits. The municipalities therefore do not feel the economic consequences of the effort, although the efforts of the municipalities have an impact on society's economy. In other words, the municipalities lose a healthy financial responsibility in the employment effort. All citizens must have the benefit and effort they are entitled to, and it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure it. At the same time, it is my clear view that the municipalities should have financial responsibility. Nor is it the case that the refund system is just being allowed to take care of itself now that there is broad support for it. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment, has launched an evaluation of the reform, which is being prepared by VIVE. The evaluation shall include: elucidate the economic and organisational effects of the reform and examine possible effects across municipalities and different target groups. In my optics, it is common sense that we first see whether the refund restructuring delivers the good effects that we all hope to see. Then we can discuss whether there is a need to adjust the system. That is why I am a little surprised that the SF will now take the process in reverse order. I think it is wise to have an evaluation and hence take the political discussion. That is also why the government cannot support the proposal, but we look forward, together with the broad circle of parties that have supported the agreement, to having a better basis for discussing the reform that we have done. And with those comments, of course, I would also hope that the SF will take note of this and that when we discuss the evaluation, they will also play constructively with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105512	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105518	Thank you. One can almost regret the fact that it was not the number of adults in day care institutions that we were going to talk about now, but municipal reimbursement. But I have a question here. Because if you now believe a lot in financial incentives, which at least the Minister does a lot, and we do so in the SF in the right contexts, and that now works, is it not also true that this economic incentive structure we have here is an incentive for municipalities to find the cheapest solution? That is the challenge here, namely that we see too many municipalities under strong suspicion of choosing a cheap solution for the municipal treasury, but perhaps an expensive solution for the citizens' lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105601	In fact, I believe that there is a very clear link, because it is always a good idea for the municipalities to invest and make the right solutions • it can be both expensive and cheap solutions. After all, taking an interest in people means doing something good for the individual who is on passive transfer, but it also means something for the municipality's economy. I have repeatedly had the opportunity to present various examples from the municipalities of the country, where an investment strategy has documented in a large number of municipalities that by investing 1 DKK. actually gets 2 kroner. Again. So I think that is precisely the proof that, in addition to doing something special for a group of citizens who deserve special attention, it is in fact also a good business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105644	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105645	The Minister is right about that. But is it not also a little crazy that we are here creating a structure which gives an incentive to the municipalities to constantly look for a cheap solution, at least for the first time? Then they can say quite quickly that the trick is perhaps more to keep the citizen on a low performance because it is the cheapest for the municipality. Wasn't it smarter for us to create an economic incentive structure that would make it equally important for the municipality, which solution they chose if they were always based on what is best for the citizen, as I also want the municipalities to do by the Minister? But here we are giving them a little reward for looking for cheap solutions instead of what is best for the citizen. And in the longer term, the minister is right about that, after all, it is actually a good investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105728	This question is just as much an expression of whether you have confidence in the country's municipal politicians. I have. I am confident that those who are responsible locally are thinking on behalf of the citizens. After all, they are elected by the citizens and must also represent the citizens of the respective municipality. That is why I do not agree with the conclusion that a cheap solution will be chosen. But it is also important to stress that we must of course have visibility and transparency about the results of the municipalities, so that we can follow it too, because if there are some municipalities that do not make an effort, one will of course also have to follow up on those municipalities nationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105806	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228105816	Thank you for that, President. When a person becomes unemployed and needs help at the job center, it is of course important that the municipality act quickly and not least act properly. The right way to get a person into work is very, very individual. It depends on the issues you bring as a person and on the way you are as a person. Therefore, it is not important for me what tools you use, but that you do the right thing that will get the person into a job and like in a permanent job. This must, of course, be done with the individual and in a way that the individual can see himself in. In this way, you get, as I see it, best moved people to the right place. It is now best for everyone that the unemployed get started quickly and do not end up in longterm unemployment. It is good for the individual, it is good for the family and for society and not least for the municipality. If the municipality makes a good and quick effort that works, it is also very good that the municipality has a financial gain out of it. In fact, I believe that the reimbursement we made back in 2014 gave them the opportunity to do so. Have the municipalities done so and have they succeeded in doing so? You certainly can't say that. I believe that they have far from understood what I said before and that it has seemed as if they have had difficulty in seeing the opportunity they have had, with the reimbursement we made at the time, when they could really make a huge difference, both for themselves and not least for the unemployed citizens of their municipality, in a period of prosperity that we have now. Having said that, there are also municipalities and here I can, among other things. mention those also mentioned by the Minister, Hjørring, Silkeborg and other municipalities, which we have also talked to who are beginning to do the same. It is municipalities that have just invested in getting more case workers and have made sure to provide the right tool for the unemployed. After a short period, they got more jobs and could also put more money back in the box after the short period, which the politicians could then use for better welfare. But has the change we made in the reimbursement made that more unemployed people have come to work? Has it provided the right incentive in the municipalities so that they can profitably invest in doing the right thing for the unemployed? And will what we have just decided in the regulatory simplification agreement to monitor more closely the municipalities that do not fulfil their responsibilities, along with the reimbursement, make more municipalities wake up? We have to see that in the evaluation that is under way, as the Minister also mentioned. If it does not, we will have to look at it again, but let us wait and see the result. Let us welcome the fact that some municipalities have actually shown that it is worth investing in doing the right thing for those who have become unemployed. And then let us say to all the municipalities that have not managed to shoot the ball into the goal, when it is now at their feet and they really have the opportunity to do something for their unemployed citizens and also to put money in the box, that they should get started, because the opportunity lies there. That is why we are voting against this proposal, as we believe that this model is right at the moment, but it is clear that if it turns out, which it certainly does, it will have to be adjusted when we get there, we will have to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110130	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110137	Again I would say that it will be exciting to see the evaluation, but isn't there anything, and that's, no matter what that evaluation will say, that still provides what can be said about a foundation for how the municipalities behave? It has actually been shown to be quite obvious that there are a number of municipalities seeking the cheapest solution. Then you can say that it is up to the local politicians. Yes, but isn't our experience that many municipalities do not all, but many municipalities here choose to look at what in the short term gives money in the municipal coffers, rather than what is good for the citizen? That is why we need to have an incentive structure which means that it may not matter what effort the municipality chooses and that they always choose what is best for the citizen, and not what is best for the municipality fund in the short term. If sir... Leif Lahn Jensen agrees with me that, regardless of the evaluation, we can say that then we need to change the structure, because the structure we have today almost calls on the municipalities to find cheap solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110233	In fact, I believe that we have found the right solution. This is very, very difficult, and I remember when we were doing it, practically all the interest groups in that area came past my office, and I asked for the golden egg, but I don't really think there is anything, because this is very, very difficult, and there's always when we talk refund and equalisation, some pluses and minuses. However, I do believe that here we have a model in which to think long-term for the municipalities. Unfortunately, I also have to give Mr. Karsten Hønge is right that there are very many municipalities that unfortunately do not. They think short-sightedly. But when the refunds are such that the longer these people are on a service, the less the municipalities and the state are reimbursed, then it also does, that if I were a mayor out there, I would make sure, as many do, to use the right tools, no matter what it cost, so that I could get those people started, so that in the long run I could actually put money in my pocket, as some have done. Therefore, I just think that the municipalities that have shown the way just show that this is the right model, and I just wish there were more who would do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110332	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110335	Now Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said that there have been organisations of interest past the office, and I wonder if one of them has also been FTF. Already back in 2015, they said: "FTF is concerned that decreasing rates of reimbursement are down to 20%. already after a year, will create a strong economic incentive in the municipalities to push citizens out of public support or down to a lower service because the citizens become too expensive for the municipality. That is what we can see today, unfortunately, is the result in a number of municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110405	It was also one of the things that worried me back then, and that is one of the things we need to do away with. But I am now pleased to see that some municipalities are actually starting to go in the right direction and start to think long-term, which we want with this model. But I have to say to Mr. Karsten Hønge, that I am not defending all the municipalities that are doing the wrong thing. I certainly do not; what I am doing is defending the municipalities that have seen the right thing in this. The municipalities that do it very badly, I am simply asking to get started, because I am not very proud of them. Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge in that this is about getting the individual citizen started in the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110435	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110449	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here, which comes from the SF, is actually that you should roll back the agreement on reimbursement to the municipalities and change it, so that instead of a percentage they get a fixed benefit per year. Citizen, if I have understood correctly, and I think that is what this is all about. SF then says that it will help to promote action against, for example. In the case of social security benefits, the local authority will receive a fixed benefit of a fixed amount and this will make it easier to enter the labour market. Well, we don't agree on that. For the best solution for a citizen in the municipality who is on a service is that the municipality makes an effort to enable them to enter the labour market. That is to say, they can give them some courses so that they can be skilled at entering the labour market, they can make contact with the employer and agree with an employer that there is a job and that they have a job available that can match that job, that is, that it is that way. This is the absolutely best solution for the citizen and not a question of whether the municipality will receive a higher amount of money to reimburse the cost they have for the benefit to the citizen. I think it is the wrong way to say that it is all about ensuring that the municipalities do not think about the economy in this context, so that they get an amount, and then they do not have to think about whether it is the best solution, they give the citizens, because the municipality has the money, whatever they do, and then they do not think about whether there are any economic gains, and there is speculation as to what kind of service you should now have. But that is, in my opinion, a completely wrong line of thought, because if the municipalities think well about it, the best solution is to look at how they get them into the labour market. What is always the best economy in is to get a free citizen into the labour market, and it is not a question of what the municipality gets in reimbursement. Where the municipality earns the most is every time they get a free citizen into the labour market. That's where the big prize lies for a municipality. Where you can really bring money into the municipality fund is by working to get the unemployed into the labour market as quickly as possible, and you do not just do that by getting a higher refund from the state, but you do that by making the right effort, as I said, by matching the unemployed to the jobs that are, making agreements with the employers, look at what course the unemployed person needs to be able to contest a job and then give them the courses that are available. However, if you ensure that the municipalities always receive a high amount of reimbursement, they do not need to make an effort, because then the municipality's money box is in order. Then they are sure that they have the money in the box, and then they don't think about the citizen. That is where the cashier's thinking may be able to come in more, because then you don't have to make an effort, so you save on making the effort, because you have the refund at home for the service you need. So in the Danish People's Party we think it is a completely wrong way. However, one should bet on the same as some municipalities making a young effort, an effort towards the unemployed, which makes them enter the labour market. They will see that where they make that effort and work with young people, they are successful in getting them out, and it is not a matter of whether they get a high refund or not. But they see in the municipalities, on the other hand, that if they get their unemployed into the labour market, that is where they save money. That's where the big win is. If only all the municipalities could learn from it, we would have come a long way. Unfortunately, they have not all done so, but of course we hope that they will do so in the course of time. Now we have also made the simplification effort, which will come into effect at a time this year, which means that we must make a greater effort to get the unemployed into the labour market, in other words to match the unemployed. Because this is a road we have to go, not by saying that we are changing the refund system and that we are ensuring that the municipalities receive a higher refund, because then the municipality does not lose money and does not have to think in cash. But it just doesn't mean they make an effort for the unemployed. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110920	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228110923	What is to be welcomed is that I fully agree with what Mr Delors said. Bent Bøgsted says. This is the right effort, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted rolls out here, as the municipalities should do. We fully agree with that, and that is also where it really moves something. We fully agree with that. I just don't understand why, sir. Bent Bøgsted does not think the idea quite to the end that there is also an economy that lures the municipalities towards finding cheap solutions. Secondly, it is true, but there is also a structure, and if you believe that financial incentives are something that works and in this context, I am sure that they work towards the municipalities, then it is not so good for the effort if you actually like reward the municipalities finding cheap solutions. Yeah, it's good for the town hall, but it's bad for the citizen. Then Mr. Bent Bøgsted, is it not the case that there are citizens here who are simply caught up in this kind of legal certainty and that the right solution is not being chosen for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111017	That is what we can see, because all municipalities do not work in the same way. We can see that where the municipalities are making the effort to get the unemployed out of work or what kind of benefit they are now receiving is where there is a success and where they get many out. That's what we've been able to see. I believe that the latest example from which we have seen some figures is the municipality of Esbjerg, where, with the efforts they have made, they have brought a great many out into the labour market. We also see it around other municipalities where they have made a young effort to get them into the labour market. It is also part of the new Fgu agreement that there needs to be a municipal youth effort to get young people into the labour market. So far along the way, that's the way to make that effort. It is true, then, that there are some municipalities that are sloppy and do not make the effort, and of course we must have picked up and be on it and say: now you are going to make the effort, because the citizens cannot be served by the fact that you are not making an effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111114	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111120	Well, I like it very much when Mr. Knox... Bent Bøgsted like believes in the best in people and in this context at the best in the municipalities. I just don't quite understand why we are not achieving the same result by saying that all that, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has correctly described as good bets, must be associated with a more • what to say • fair refund system. One does not rule out the other, on the contrary. Because we agree that the second effort is really there, you can move people, but why not also alongside it have a refund system that makes it more financially independent for the municipality to choose the right solution for the citizen instead of being tempted to find cheap solutions and thus forget the citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111155	The cheap solution is, of course, precisely if the municipalities receive a large refund, where they can see that they actually get all the money back in the service they have to provide. Then they save by not making an effort. Then they won't have to do anything, because then they won't have any expenses on them. That's the cheap solution. That's it, sir. Karsten Hønge actually says that the municipalities should have. They need a cheap solution. They are being reimbursed so much that it does not matter whether they are making an effort to get a citizen into the labour market. But the biggest gain is still to get the citizen into the labour market. That is where the Danish People's Party stands, and that is the effort that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111226	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for comments. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111233	Thank you. In the Left, we focus on ensuring effective employment efforts. For example, we have taken the lead in weeding out rigid rules and red tape, which has been a stumbling block in the active employment effort. Here, of course, I am referring to the broad political agreement on a simplified employment effort, which I welcome as part of which the proposers of the Socialist People's Party are also part. So somewhere along the way, we agree on the direction. Where we then do not agree entirely is, of course, when it comes to the refund system. With the reimbursement reform in 2015, I believe that we have set up a system that encourages municipalities to invest in getting citizens away from public support as soon as possible and in jobs rather than an effort based on focusing on the highest reimbursement rate. We have, among other things. In this context, it is important to ensure that the reimbursement rules are uniform and that the reimbursement is phased out over time, and that the government has kept its nose in with the simplification of the economic management of employment efforts. We have to hold on to that. It is absolutely essential that the municipalities take responsibility for ensuring effective employment, including keeping the total cost down, and I do not believe that the resolution supports this. In addition, an evaluation of the reimbursement reform has been carried out, of which it is common sense to await the outcome, and then we can discuss the need for adjustments when we have a report, an evaluation, to deal with. At any rate, I believe that it is a sensible order to do things. On the basis of those arguments, we cannot support the resolution, and I also welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately could not be here today, and say that they cannot support the resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111433	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111436	I choose just to address the sentence Mr. Hans Andersen said: This is also a matter of keeping spending down. But if we believe that the municipalities are choosing the right solution for the citizens, is this not going to cost anything? I mean, I just think that if we assume the same reasoning that the municipalities are always based on what's best for the citizen, then this can't cost anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111503	I think that we have set up a sensible refund system in such a way that we encourage municipalities to help people in jobs as quickly as possible, in other words, the rate of reimbursement falls as time goes by, unfortunately, when the citizen is outside the labour market. That, then, encourages the municipalities to get people into jobs to a large extent, and I do not think that is in the SF's motion for a resolution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111533	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111535	Yeah, yeah, but I'm just saying, if we're again a little bit like mr. Bent Bøgsted believes in the best in people and believes in the best in the municipalities, so I guess this shouldn't cost anything, because then they have to choose the best solution for the citizen at all times. That's why I'm just saying that I can't see that it could cost anything. But I suppose the problem is that it takes so little time for the 20% to be hit, and I can ask Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, about Mr. Hans Andersen has not experienced municipalities thinking more about the economy in this regard than they think about the citizen because there is an economic incentive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111610	I believe that we have moved a lot in the employment effort over recent years, but there has certainly also been a need for a boost in the right direction, which is why, in cooperation with the SF, we have also agreed that more people should be included in both 1 and 2 in order to pick up and get people on either early retirement or in jobs because they had ended up in the cash assistance system. However, this does not change the fact that with a refund system, which means that the municipality also has an economic incentive to help people in jobs, and whatever lies in SF's proposal, the state will pay. No matter how bad or how good the municipality is, the state will keep the municipality indemnified, and I don't think that's a healthy principle to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111703	Thank you. Then there is no further comment to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228111715	First of all, thank you to the SF for raising this extremely important discussion. The Enhedslisten fully agrees with SF that the reimbursement and compensation system should not be designed in such a way as to encourage municipalities to place citizens on the lowest possible or, for that matter, no benefits at all. But that's exactly how the refund restructuring from 2016 works. Here the screw was tightened quite smoothly with regard to the State's reimbursement of statutory dependents. The municipalities themselves now have to pay 80%. of the cost when the citizen has been on a social benefit for more than 52 weeks. As the LO and FTF now assembled in the main trade union organisation said in its consultation response to the draft law in 2015, it encourages municipalities to place the citizens at the lowest possible or preferably no dependency. This will, of course, apply in particular to municipalities with many long-term unemployed, many long-term sicknesses, so there is a great need for change. However, we in Enhedslisten are not sure that SF's proposal is an effective solution to the problem. It is for us to see minor adjustments within a totally distorted system, and it cannot be said that the system has become more transparent by the changes proposed here by the SF. We also have the merit of seeing the calculations on which this proposal is based, not because we believe that the SF cannot count, but because it is complicated matter, and that is why we must at least know the economic conditions if we are to vote in favour of it, including the consequences the changes can have on the compensation system. However, the main shortcoming of the proposal is that the SF envisages that the changes should be implemented within the current economic framework. We understand that the Social Democratic Party has come to the conclusion that the imbalance in the compensation system cannot be resolved, and the reimbursement of the State is part of it without adding more money to the system. That is an important realization. It doesn't help if you move things around a little bit and turn the criteria around a little. It would just be to distribute the prevailing misery in a slightly different way. We think that we should keep the Social Democratic Party firm on this, in the hope that we will be able to have a joint reform of the reimbursement system following a parliamentary election. At any rate, the present government has shown that it has neither the will nor the ability to sit at the top of the table in such a difficult process. In the forthcoming negotiations, the Enhedslisten will of course be based on our own fully funded proposals. Our model consists of two elements: a significant increase in the level of compensation at national level, which mainly addresses municipalities with many social and welfare challenges, and a lower tax base. A complete reorganisation of State reimbursement on selected social benefits, which the municipalities have little opportunity to influence and which means that the State pays a much larger part of these costs, will minimise the risk of cash thinking. So we recognise the positive intentions of the SF's proposal and we will certainly not refuse to be able to support the proposed elements of a larger and more radical reform of the compensation system, but at this stage we cannot support the proposal, but, as I said, we support the intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112043	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112051	Thank you for the positive words, there were also paragraphs in positive words. I just want to hear what should hold Enhedslisten back from supporting it. I can hear Enhedslisten's proposal, and it is very comprehensive, but could you imagine taking some steps in the right direction before the world revolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112117	Yes, one could imagine that, but, as I also said, we would like to know the economic calculations behind this proposal. But perhaps this is something that can be done in the committee's work following this first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112128	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112132	Yes, because many things can be changed in equalisation systems, and we can allow this to be completely taken into account in relation to the compensation system between municipalities, as Mrs Lund is also right in relation to municipalities which have many long-term unemployed compared to others. All that's kind of a good point. This proposal is aimed precisely at removing the incentive that municipalities have to find cheap solutions for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112155	We are simply in doubt as to whether this can be done within the current economic framework. We see there that the financial framework must be slightly larger. One could, for example: take the money from the already existing room for manoeuvre. However, as I said, we would very much like to go into the economic calculations behind the SF's proposal in a further committee after this first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112212	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112222	Thank you to the SF for an exciting motion for a resolution. The authors of the motion for a resolution are probably not hoping that the Liberal Alliance will support it, so I do not think that is surprising. Karsten Hønge, that Liberal Alliance doesn't. We think that the reimbursement reform that has just been transformed into good financial incentives for municipalities to get people out of the door quickly is really, really good. Because we know that the longer you're away from the labour market, the harder it gets to get back and get a foothold. That is why it made exactly sense to give the municipalities the economic incentive that the citizens who enter should be focused on quickly getting out. Then there was a big discussion about whether it means you don't care, that is, that you don't care about that group of citizens as soon as they've been there over a year, because the most important thing is to get them out quickly. But as Mr. Bent Bøgsted also mentioned in his speech, is the best reimbursement for the municipalities, the best financial incentive, to get citizens into work. It may be that we need to be better at reminding the municipalities of this, but I am confident that this is being taken into account in the vast majority of the country's municipalities, and we need to support the municipalities in taking action that works. That is why we have simplified the system so that it will be easier to take the right solutions, and that is what we need to support the municipalities in. I think that for now we should at least maintain the refund system that we have. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112410	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112414	No, no, but why shouldn't I have a belief that the Liberal Alliance could support this? Because in many other contexts, the Liberal Alliance has a very strong belief that if you give the citizens financial incentives, the thumb screws, the whips, they will move and move. Now we have a system here that can motivate municipalities to seek cheaper solutions. Isn't that what they're gonna do? And isn't that what they do in a number of municipalities, not all, but in a lot of municipalities, and thus actually put the legal certainty of the citizen out of effect, because the solution that is not best for the citizen himself is not chosen, but the one that can, in the short term, be of limited benefit to the municipal treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112449	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112453	I just don't think so, because the best refund for the municipalities is to get the citizen to work. Firstly, you save a benefit for which there is some refund, but you still save some benefit, and then you get some tax revenue if you help the citizens into work. So that is clearly the focus of the municipalities. I have every confidence in that. So I do not share the great concern, sir. Karsten Hønge has, for that one chooses cheap and thus it lies a little in the undertones of worse solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112521	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112525	If thinking is to keep water all the way through, there must be a belief that such structures actually work. And when you look out at the municipalities and there are some who are exempted, fortunately then, it is no wonder that a municipality may, of course, initially have an interest in it, but once they have come some way in the process, they have a narrow economic interest in keeping these citizens on low benefits. Is this the only exception where the Liberal Alliance does not believe in economic incentives, but only believes in the good in people and in the good in municipalities? It really is not my experience, but it is perhaps Mrs Laura Lindahl's experience that the municipalities always choose what is best for the citizen and not what is so narrowly best for the municipal treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112607	No, but the municipalities have precisely an economic interest in getting citizens to work, because it is there that is the most money to collect for the municipalities. And the solution that ensures that it is easiest to get citizens into work is the best solution for the citizen and for the municipality. So we believe that the incentives that have been put down here are good at getting citizens to work, because yes, we believe in financial incentives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112630	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228112644	Thank you. And thanks to the SF for ensuring a good discussion on a very, very important topic. In the alternative, we call it cash thinking when it is the case that the municipalities have the advantage of making offers to the citizens, which are cheap, but not necessarily for the good of the citizens. We believe that every time municipalities are given an economic incentive to save money on citizens, we believe that citizens are deprived of some of their social freedoms. Because if the citizen is in a situation where the service that the citizen receives is not as good as it could be, because he or she gets another service that is cheaper for the municipality to provide, then surely it is one of the basic welfare freedoms that we take from the citizen, because, in a welfare society, the citizen must always have the service and help and treatment that is best So, in our opinion, financial incentives must always benefit the citizens. I do not think that is what always happens in the municipalities. In some places, and I do not say everywhere, but in some places, what we call cash thinking happens, at least in our opinion, where the municipality chooses the solution that is cheapest for the municipality, without it absolutely being the best for the citizen. I have no doubt that the reason for this may be that the municipalities are extremely pressured on their economy. Nor am I in any doubt that we on the part of the Danish Parliament have helped to push them financially. This is not something we are in favour of in the alternative, but no matter what, it should not hurt the citizens. I think the municipalities know it's an advantage. I think the municipalities have a huge motivation to get people into work, because it is of course an advantage for the municipalities that people get to work. Well, that's it on lots of parameters. It is cheapest for municipalities when citizens go from being on transfer income to being taxpayers and being part of the working community. It creates a lot of benefits on different parameters, actually also savings around. But the possibility of getting people into jobs is, after all, highly dependent on the economic opportunities offered by the economic cycle. After all, it is not because the municipalities have a refund system that suddenly many people get to work or suddenly there will be a great deal of unemployment. It's the big business cycle. After all, it is the economic development that very, very much controls it and, to a lesser extent, the refund system. I therefore believe that we do not need a refund system that leads to cash thinking, on top of the other measures that are being taken to get citizens to work. So the alternative supports this proposal. It is perhaps a little unclear how it should be folded out in concrete terms, but we are happy to support small steps towards cash thinking. And instead of going down and tampering with it and troubleshooting, we would actually rather, if it were to be adopted one day, be involved in guaranteeing quality, because we believe that this is the right way to go. And we are also voting in favour of helping to give a clear signal, which tells those who, after an evaluation, have to sit and work on this, that financial incentives must benefit citizens and that we must shut down the possibility that citizens will have a lower service because it is cheaper. Yes then the Alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228113005	Thank you. There are no comments. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228113017	Thank you for that, and also thanks from my side and the Radical Left to the SF for raising this discussion. The Radical Left is, of course, part of the conciliation on the refund system and, as we can see, an evaluation of the economic and organisational effects of the reform has been initiated. We want to wait radically for that evaluation. When it comes, of course, we would like to discuss everything and see whether there are any biased incentives or not. So far, however, we cannot support this proposal radically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228113053	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228113106	First of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for spending their time on the proposal, and then, of course, perhaps a little, but a special thanks to the comrades in the Enhedslisten. On the other hand, a big thank you to the friends, it must be, in the alternative. The SF is eagerly awaiting the evaluation and, of course, is also very happy to participate in the negotiations that are coming, just as we are taking part in negotiations on every corner of the employment effort. However, there are still some things that do not change, which have a foundation and which have been there ever since the law was passed in 2015. Even then, we could see in a hearing from the FTF that it says they are concerned about the falling rates of reimbursement, which come down to 20%. even after 1 year and that it will create a strong economic incentive in the municipalities to push citizens out of public support or down to a lower service because the citizens are becoming too expensive for the municipality. That is an information that we knew would apply to the system, and that was true from the outset, and that is true today. That does not alter the fact that we naturally support the ideas behind it. The agreement also states that the aim of the restructuring is to strengthen the municipalities' focus on results through a greater financial incentive to prevent long-term public support and to implement effective action. It's hard to resist. In the model, the municipalities themselves must gradually pay more of the benefit. The idea behind the phasing-out model is that the municipalities can only to a limited extent prevent a citizen from entering public support. Therefore, the refund is high for the first 4 weeks. On the other hand, the municipalities have a better chance of influencing the length of time for which citizens remain on public support and therefore the reimbursement is gradually reduced. Now, it may make sense, but not in the way it is screwed up, namely that one percent of the population is an incentive to get municipalities to choose cheap solutions. That is why we need to change the system. What is at stake here is also the legal certainty of citizens; they must never be in doubt that the solution chosen by the municipality for them is the one that is best for themselves in their lives where they are and not what is in the short term of interest to the municipality. Then I just think that if you now believe a lot in financial incentives, which there may be good reason to do for some people and in some specific contexts, here, for example. in the municipalities and residents an incentive that, if one has only come over the first time, it can be a profit for the municipality either to push citizens out of public support or to keep them on lower benefits, why should not a number of municipalities choose to go in that direction? It is not all municipalities; there are municipalities that go beyond the incentives and do this good work that we have mentioned in the past and which Mr. Bent Bøgsted among others. explained in detail. And it is quite right that a number of municipalities do. But there are also many other cases where you can see that here you do not choose what is best for the citizen, but what is best for the municipal cashier. That is why this proposal is an attempt to put an end to cash thinking and to stop reducing citizens to objects that can be moved around in the short term in the interests of the local economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228113428	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for comments, so the debate is over. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228113448	The debate is open. Minister of Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228113455	Thank you. First of all, I think we should actually thank the SF for presenting this resolution on citizen-led budgets. Because with the proposal, the SF wants to impose a bill on the government that promotes the use of citizen-led budgets by municipalities, so that all municipalities will have the opportunity to work with it in their efforts towards job-ready cash benefit recipients over 30 years of age with one year's unemployment. The proposal should give citizens real freedom of choice to dispose of their own resources without being drawn into service, but in consultation with the job centre. The proposal, as I read it, is basically about what tools should be in the toolbox to help job-ready cash benefit recipients move on to jobs. I think we should consider this on a regular basis. The government is very concerned that all citizens on temporary public support are given an effort to help them get back into jobs as soon as possible, because a job for most people is, after all, about the most fundamental thing in life, namely something to stand up to, to experience, to contribute and in many ways to do what is absolutely crucial for everyone, namely to be part of a working community. The fact that you earn your own money and can support yourself and, above all, that you become a good role model for your family is important. That is why I also welcome the fact that every month employment sets a record record, and that we have created more than 160,000 private jobs since a completely random pointer mark was taken in June 2015. The high number indicates that many people have now entered work and can support themselves. It is a huge gain, both for society, but not least for the individual. But back to the proposal on citizen-led budgets. It is of course the case that an experiment has been made in the municipality of Aarhus on citizen-led budgets, to which SF also refers in the motion for a resolution. This experiment took place in the period December 2015 to June 2018 under the name of the long-term unemployed take the thete. Citizen-led budgets have served as an employment offer in which longterm unemployed cash aid recipients have each been given the opportunity to budget up to DKK 50,000 for themselves. to design their own employment efforts. The aim has been to bring more opportunities into play than there is in the ordinary employment effort. It has also been the intention to ensure that citizens find motivation and take ownership to find their own way into the labour market. Ninety-seven citizens have participated in the experiment. Citizens have spent money on many different things ranging from driving licences and upskilling courses to dental treatment and guidance from a dietician. A report from Aarhus Municipality says that 32 out of the 97 citizens have now left the cash assistance system, and the report reports that more people have had good experiences with the experiment. For example: has up to 85%. by citizens gained more faith that they will get to work within the next year. It's kind of good and happy. Should civilised budgets then be part of the toolbox for future employment efforts? As I said, I think that we should constantly consider taking a stand on new tools, and the intentions behind citizen-led budgets can actually be good enough. After all, I am deeply inspired by the idea of investment, which forms the basis of such schemes, which I think more municipalities should be given a look at. One might also ask whether a scheme such as citizen-led budgets should be targeted exclusively at the job-readies, as the SF has proposed, which should be basically those in the cash benefits system closest to being able to get into employment. The government also has a similar experiment going on in conjunction with the wage-pool parties. In the context of the 2017-2020 Rate Pool Agreement, 10 million have been allocated. kr. to an experimental scheme in the area of the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, which is similar to the experiment carried out in Aarhus Municipality. The experimental scheme is to give 50,000 kroner to vulnerable citizens. to create a positive change in their lives. The scheme runs until the end of 2019. Four municipalities participate in it, including Aarhus Municipality. The early and very preliminary experiences from the rate pool scheme, like the experiment in Aarhus, are positive. There is reason to rejoice about this. Having said all that, however, I do not believe that we are where we are ready to spread citizen-led budgets. We do not know what the effects of citizen-led budgets are. So we do not know whether the citizens who have left the cash assistance system during the experiment in Aarhus have done so because of the opportunities they have had or whether they would have left the system anyway. We must also bear in mind that the prospect of a relatively large amount of tax-free cash risks keeping some citizens in unemployment for longer than is necessary. So in other words, we need to learn a lot more about how it works. It is important to me that citizen-led budgets throw off positive effects and that they are applied to the right target groups, otherwise we may be left with a very large bill. Let me just give a completely technical example: In 2018, there were approx. 29,800 job-ready cash benefits and integration benefit recipients who had at least 12 months of continuous unemployment behind them in the cash benefits system. This would result in additional public expenditure of approx. 1.1 billion kr. After rewinding in the first years, if all of the citizens were to spend up to 50,000 kroner. for measures that they themselves consider important to get to work. The calculation does not even include any administrative costs or the negative effects that may be of citizen-led expenditure. It's a lot of money here at the end of the month anyway. So let me say that the government cannot support the proposal, but that we will now follow the political agreement we have in the pool of rates, and then we will need much more knowledge before we have to go down the path proposed by the SF. But it is refreshing that we have a discussion about this in the Danish Parliament, and there are also elements from Aarhus that deserve closer study.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114055	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114058	But now is the time for the Minister to be tested on his position on an investment strategy. In relation to the previous motion for a resolution that we were discussing and, moreover, in relation to a number of other contexts, the Minister has, after all, drummed for the municipalities to pursue an investment strategy, and we fully agree with that. After all, this is a concrete implementation of an investment strategy done in a pool of rates and now in Aarhus. After all, the experience is clearly positive, and I need to hear the Minister answer why we do not then look down that investment strategy path if we now have positive experiences from two different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114138	Now, in fact, I was trying to say something positive about the proposal for a long time. It has been difficult for me, but I was convinced that it was probably wise to do so. But it has to be said that there are a few small hanging parties, as I think Mr. Karsten Hønge just has to be aware of: a potentially large bill of billions, which one basically as a responsible government has to relate to. On the contrary, I think it should be welcomed that there is now a broad political consensus on the investment pool project running. If that turns out to be a good idea, then I think that all parties will be willing to look at whether this tool should be used to a greater extent. But I don't think that based on an exciting experiment in Aarhus, where we don't have any evidence of how it works, we can just scale it up. In any case, I am not in a position to do so here on Thursday morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114232	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114235	Then the scam is in such a resolution that it also allows the government, on the basis of the principles set out in the motion for a resolution, to draw up a genuine legislative proposal. It could then be taken into account, among other things. When the Minister says that it depends on the target groups to which this tool is being used. That is quite right, and that is why the motion for a resolution expressly states that it should be in cooperation with the job centre. It's not a rooftop table. It's not a buffet that you can go to and then take 50,000 kroner, and then you go home with them. It's after clear appointments with the job center. It should, of course, respond to the concerns of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114314	Well, I shouldn't be able to rule out that there are some elements of wisdom in what the SF has proposed, but I think you should take it easy anyway. It might be that this motion for a resolution could then form the basis of a report text in which we are now working further in relation to the pool of rates. I am, in fact, open to that, but one by one to say that we are buying this motion for a resolution, I simply do not think we have enough knowledge of it at this stage, but I share the view that, and I also believe that the responsibility of the individual can have a positive impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114348	Thank you. There are no more comments. The rapporteur's line begins, and that is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114355	When you read these stories from Aarhus, you're kind of in a good mood. It is a municipality that has given the unemployed a belief that they are good for something, a belief that they can also get to work, and that they are also needed in the workplace. That's really, really good. They have also shown in Aarhus that many citizens know very well what it takes to get them to work. They have shown that they really want to and that it actually helps to let the individual take the lead or take the lead in getting to work. It is an advantage to have the individual with and not just control them as dolls, but actually get them to the pin and get them to help determine the direction. Many times this is not so difficult, because you don't have to send them on all the courses and much of what they've either been doing in advance or know something about, and they won't need them. It may be that you just have to do what the Minister also mentioned, namely talk to a dietician, take a driving licence or get your teeth fixed, because it is also a huge problem for a lot of people. So with those words, I would like to praise Aarhus for what they have done and for the results they have shown so far. It's very, very exciting. But now we have to decide whether we want to spread this to the whole country. I think that's really hard to say yes to right now. After all, there is an evaluation going on about the project in Aarhus, where they will tell whether their good results are due to the project, or whether these are just good times we have right now, in the labour market, or whether it is a combination of both. That in itself is quite interesting when we get there. We don't know how expensive it will be either. Now the Minister mentioned a figure, compared to if everyone spends all the money, but they probably don't. But we don't know what it's gonna cost. And without knowing the price and without being any closer to knowing the effect of it, I think it would be hard to say a hundred percent yes to it. But having said that, I believe very much in this and the whole idea of it, as I described it before. I would actually like to see this spread, i.e. that the control is left to the individual and that the individual feels heard and not run over by the system, as everyone who has dealt with this area knows actually happens out there. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party, together with the parties that want to, would very much like to have a discussion and a dialogue on how we can spread this to other municipalities, i.e. spread it more and thus perhaps increase the experiment. So with those words, I would like to commend SF for taking up this very exciting debate as it certainly is, and I would like to commend Aarhus for their efforts and so far good results. We will vote against this proposal, but we will follow the experiment in Aarhus quite closely and would like to help spread the experiment to other municipalities, but even to do so nationwide we have not yet reached it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114647	Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114651	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen for a largely positive speech when it comes to substance. Then I heard that there would be no vote in favour of the resolution. In fact, I myself sometimes think that this may be a minor detail, because it is of course a matter of substance, i.e. whether we can somehow move forward with what it is all about. That's where I heard sir. Leif Lahn Jensen said that the Social Democrats would like to take part in an exchange of ideas on how we can make this happen. But could Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has revealed how we could spread it in other ways than by adopting something? Now, after all, the rate pool ends within a reasonable period of time, so can we react a little quickly to something that seems to work well both in the wager pool context and in Aarhus?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114739	You can always have a dialogue about how to do it, but without me completely and precisely knowing about it in Aarhus beyond what I have read, I just think that if Aarhus can do it here, if Aarhus has really done it himself, because they think it is a good idea, why can't all other municipalities? Why don't they just do it? Why do they need our help? Why can't they just say that we want to? This is, of course, about the investment strategy we talked about in the last proposal. Why don't all the other municipalities just say: what is happening in Aarhus is brilliant; so are we? They're welcome to do that. I don't see any reason why they shouldn't. So we can start by encouraging them to do so from here and say to them: Go to Aarhus, look at this project and see if it's not something you can do. I'd do that right away if I were out there watching this. I would then go to Aarhus and say: I think we should introduce that into our municipality. So we could start with that, and then Mr. Cole could. Karsten Hønge travels around to the municipalities and ask them to go to Aarhus. That's what he could do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114838	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114842	Yes, but as I now understand it, the difference is that in Aarhus you have entered into agreements with private actors, first and foremost the VELUX FUND, which sponsors a large part of it. So it is all about making this a social task and not allowing the municipalities to seek out individual sponsorships. That is the idea of the motion for a resolution. But I could also just say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that it was then possible to do what the Minister is pragmatically handing out, namely to write some wordings about how we can move along this road together without committing ourselves specifically to the SF's motion for a resolution, because that is not the most important thing for me. The most important thing is that we're gonna speed up getting further down this road and getting it widespread.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114925	Well, I agree with that, and that is also why I said in my speech that we were ready to enter into dialogue with the parties that would like to see how we can spread this to several municipalities. In his previous question, Mr. Karsten Hønge me just about how things could go quickly, and what I replied to was how things could go quickly as in fast. But we can always have that dialogue and discussion, and here I would like to say that I think this is sensible and that I would like to see it in several municipalities, and I am ready to have a dialogue on that with those parties who want to have that dialogue with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228114953	Thank you. Then we'll continue the discussion after lunch. I'm gonna call you now and we're gonna go back to the meeting at 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130000	The sitting is resumed. We shall begin with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130016	Thank you for that, President. The proposal we are debating here is a very special proposal, because the intention is to allow citizens who are not in work to be given the opportunity to do so, for example, in the municipalities. be on cash benefits or other benefits • a budget of DKK 50,000, which they can have available for themselves and which they can decide for themselves how to spend. As I understand it, you're supposed to spend the $50,000. to get ready to enter the labour market. It has been mentioned that money, for example. It can be used to remove tattoos which bother and which the employer does not like; you can also use them on yourself so that you can look better at the employer; you can also use them to take a driving licence for example. bus or taxi or a truck card, or whatever may be of opportunity to get ready to enter the labour market. You have a say in how you want to spend the $50,000. A pilot scheme has been run in Aarhus, where 97 people participated. It was financed by some funds, and 32 of the participants entered the labour market. What is then missing, i.e. what I can't see from this... it's not certain that the proposers can see it... is whether the 32 who got away from cash benefits had got away anyway. Because it also has a bit to do with what the municipalities are doing to the citizens who are on cash benefits. The idea is that in the job centres they should look at how they can help the individual to get into the labour market • whether it is a course in something, so that you can equip yourself, whether it is a driving licence or what it takes to • and then they can guide the individual citizen in what to do, and the municipality has the opportunity to support a citizen in, for example. to get a driver's license. There are many good reasons for this, but when you look at the proposal, I think that many of the things you talk about here are something that the job centres should do anyway. We have then set in motion an attempt to give a citizen-led budget to vulnerable citizens, who must bring them closer to the labour market, and we are awaiting an evaluation of this. It will come in a year's time, when it will have to be completed with an evaluation of what we are looking at how it has worked. But, of course, we also need to look a little more closely at the experience they have gained in Aarhus with their actions with citizen-led budgets. 32 out of 97 unemployed persons with over 1 year of unemployment have entered work. It may be on the bottom of the line that no more people have entered the labour market, which is why you also have to look at what the municipalities are actually doing next to, in terms of whether they just let people take care of themselves when they have got the budget, and say: Now you have 50,000 DKK, and then you just need them to see if you can get into the labour market. It may well be that the municipalities still have to make an effort to get them into the labour market. In the Danish People's Party we find it exciting. We are not ready to endorse the proposal here, but we would like to see some further studies carried out on the effects of the experiment that has been carried out, but also some studies on the effects of the actions that have been made through the rate pool for vulnerable citizens. Because that is an expensive proposal. If you're going to spread it to the whole country, to all municipalities, and everyone has to have the opportunity to get $50,000, then it's going to be over $1 billion. DKK to be used for this purpose. I don't think you're supposed to give that $50,000. for job preparation, if it's just a question that the municipality might just pull itself together and match someone available with a job. For the communists' first priority is to help citizens in jobs that are directly included in the Social Security Act that, with regard to those who cannot find a job themselves, the municipality must make an effort for them, help them and get them into a job. We must, of course, have that interaction examined in more detail. But it is a positive proposal and we would like to look into it, but we cannot support it here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130504	There is one with a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130510	Thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted. It was then, I think, a response to the substance of it. And once again, it should not be allowed to fall down on whether a resolution is cut one way or the other. I hear the Danish People's Party here going into the premise that it is a good idea that we might trust the citizens more. But I'd like to hear from you, sir. Bent Bøgsted could put a few more words on how we might get there. Of course, one of the methods could be to wait for the evaluation in one year's time. But are there not obvious fruits we can pick here by simply saying that we are actually trusting that citizens know what is best in their own lives and that, after a clear agreement with the job centre, they will be given some money only after an agreement with the job centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130551	I think that we should first of all examine what the result is in Aarhus. What impression do they have, and do they have information about these 32 citizens who have gotten away from the cash benefits? I think the effect with 32 out of 97 is right on the bottom. There should be more people who could have entered the labour market. So if it's going to go on, we might have to look into what they say in Aarhus Municipality to this and what they have from experience. Is it because of this that people have entered the labour market, or are there other reasons for this? Because there isn't much to it either that we're just giving $50,000 that leads to nothing. 'Cause you might be able to spend $50,000. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It should, of course, be targeted at what can get people into the labour market. So there's something that needs to be investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130655	The questioner does not wish to make another brief comment, so thank the rapporteur. Bent Bøgsted Then it was enough for positive speech when he won't ask any more). We'll continue in the series of speeches, and I'll go ahead and say hello to Mr. Thompson. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228130708	Thank you. And thank you to the previous rapporteurs for the debate on citizen-led budgets. I would also like to thank the SF for an exciting motion for a resolution which, of course, gives rise to the discussion of new solutions to how we can help citizens in employment. And let me be honest and say that I think the intention of the proposal is good. The idea of investing in the individual, that is to say, the individual person and his needs, appeals to my liberal heart because everyone is not in the same situation and can be put into a particular box. So the reality is knocking a little, and it is more complicated than that, because a system of citizen-led budgets also contains a number of uncertainties. There is uncertainty about the effect, because will these budgets lead to more people entering employment, or will it just keep people for a little longer on cash benefits? It's not known. But what is less uncertain is the direct cost that will result from the introduction of the proposal. It will cost a lot of money, and the money will have to be found somewhere. But that is not the same as rejecting the idea in this way. Reflex. In 2017, we decided together to carry out an experiment with citizen-led budgets among vulnerable citizens, and we are waiting for the results of that. Similarly, we are waiting for the final conclusions of the experiment in Aarhus, which, I must understand, forms the basis of this motion for a resolution. I believe that this is essential before we decide whether it is a new and good tool for bringing people into employment. Well, then it's not like we're not focusing on this area. We are constantly focusing on helping citizens in employment. It is about ensuring that there are financial incentives, that it pays to get up in the morning and go to work, but it is also about some who need more than that, that is to say, having a more hand-held approach to it. This is also why, in several stages, we have set aside money for the projects.More people are going to have to take care of people who have been unemployed for too long. So we should not have a system that acts on the basis of the system, but on the basis of the citizen. So, overall, the proposal is sympathetic. There is some uncertainty about it. It could also be associated with relatively high costs that have already been mentioned. So before we decide to take this tool and put it in the toolbox, we think we should wait for the evaluations that are under way. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131049	Okay, thank you. Two comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is sir. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131056	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen for one, I think, predominantly positive speech again. You go for the content and substance of both the speech and the challenge we must try to do something about, so it is really good. What the proposal is about is to remove some of the stones that are in the way of some of the municipalities that want to go down this road. So I would like to say that in relation to that uncertainty, as Mr. Hans Andersen says he has to the economy in it, this proposal is after all about removing the stones that lie for the municipalities and that they are allowed to carry out these experiments. Well, the reason why it can be done in Aarhus is that you have private players inside where VELUX pays for this attempt. What this proposal is all about is saying to the municipalities: Well, you can do it. That is why I do not see where the uncertainty is coming in, because it will be a municipal decision: will we do this here in our municipality? And if we do that, it's gonna be up to the job center. And are we going to translate this into these experiments? So this is about removing some of the stones that lie on the road for the municipalities that will go the way of investing in the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131203	I think that before we may then remove the stones, as Mr. Karsten Hønge mentions, it would be very reasonable for us to wait for the evaluations that are under way. There is both an evaluation of the concrete project in Aarhus, and then there is also a project that we have set in motion jointly in connection with the stake pool agreement, which is of course in the same ball street. And I would like to await the results of them before I, what to say, will help to recommend municipalities to use this tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131244	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131246	That is fair enough, because I think it is a good argument to say that we should look at the evaluations that exist. I just think that this is something that so openly invites us to one thing that we so often talk about: investing in citizens. And this is not about the state investing money in the citizens, but about leaving it up to the municipalities to decide whether they want to go this way. So in that sense, sir... Hans Andersen didn't want to be afraid of the national economy... no anguish, the municipality pays.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131318	Yeah, but in the end, it's the community that pays. And before we, on behalf of the community, can recommend the municipalities to use this tool, I think it would be sensible to have greater certainty that it actually has an effect. Because we can't actually say anything about that today. This sounds positive, but we do not know whether the people concerned, who have now entered employment on the basis of the project, would still have come into work, even if they had not been included in this project, but had received an ordinary effort from the municipality. Actually, we don't know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131405	A few moments ago I saw a possible question, but now there is no one, so thank the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131428	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance does not support the SF proposal. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, I think it is true, as both the Minister and previous rapporteurs mentioned, that an evaluation of the project in Aarhus is under way and it will be interesting to see the result. We know that 32 citizens in the group have come out of the cash assistance system, but we do not know whether it is because of this initiative or anything else. We need to be clear about this first. Then, as has already been mentioned, there is a stake pool project, which also goes on this with ending it at the end of 2019. We must also look at this and have it evaluated at the end of this year before we go further along this road. So that is why I do not support moving forward with citizen-led budgets in general. However, in relation to the SF's proposals, I also think that when we talk about the job-ready cash aid recipients, because if the SF had proposed that it was the ready for activity and provided that we had the evaluations that showed that it was positive, I would have been prepared to look that way. However, I do not think it would be a good idea for job-ready cash-aid recipients, because job-ready cash-aid recipients are people who are ready to take a job because the municipality has estimated that the only reason they are on cash-aid is because they do not have a job. So we should not go there and try to get them closer to the labour market by going through a lot of things; they should simply take a job. So I think it's wrong to talk about job preparation, and even if you had talked about the activities, which would make it more meaningful, I think we should wait to see the evaluations on the part of the Aarhus project and on the investment pool project that we have started before considering whether this is a way forward. So the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131640	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131643	I find it disappointing that the Liberal Alliance does not see here the chance to help remove some bureaucracy in the municipalities. I have the impression that in many contexts the Liberal Alliance is trying to make it easier to ask the experts of everyday life. It can be ordinary people, or it can be municipalities. So why have such stones lying on the road, such some tripwires for the municipalities? Because it is not allowed today to make such experiments unless you use private funds, as you do here with the money from the VELUX FUND. Why not make it easier for the municipalities, who are at the eye of the citizens, and why not ask the experts, namely the citizens, because they are experts in their own lives • what will suit them well? You can fall into that ditch, as I think Mrs Laura Lindahl does, to think that you can talk to the citizens and that they just have to go out and find a job. However, if the problem is that they do not do so, then we have to get to grips with some instruments, and this is a question of leaving it to the municipalities themselves to make this decision with the citizens. Then it must also tempt Mrs Laura Lindahl that one of the things we explicitly mention is the possibility of helping to start up your own business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131746	Yes, but now we in the Liberal Alliance have a big heart beating for taxpayers in this society, and we are not prepared to just hand out blank cheques to citizens outside the labour market at the expense of the neighbour. So without knowing whether this will have an effect, so that in the long run we will be able to save some money for public expenditure, which could then be traced back to the taxpayers we have, we are not prepared just to distribute the money at will.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131817	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131819	No, but it would also be completely crazy. Could it be imagined that someone was writing cheques to the citizens and just so handing them out? That doesn't make any sense. This is specifically and precisely about removing the trip threads, the stones that are on the way, so that the municipality can decide for itself with the citizen and make a clear agreement on an action plan for how the citizen is brought closer to the labour market. It is only in the situation where there is a clear agreement between the citizen and the job centre that you can then go in and support some very concrete goals that could be the last help to start your own business or get something done about the bad teeth that make you unable to get a job. It should in all possible ways be so clever that LA should be able to join it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131900	Well, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Karsten Hønge believes that everything that is snuffy is obvious for LA to join. But this is, after all, giving out money that you don't know about being used wisely, because we don't know if this works. That is why it makes great sense, as previous rapporteurs have also said, to wait for the evaluations so that we know whether this works. If it turns out to work and be the most effective thing you can do to get people into work, then of course we are prepared to do so, but right now we don't know if it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228131940	Thank you, and for the second time today thank you to the SF for bringing up a very good proposal. After all, it is a question of personal, citizen-driven budgets, that is to say, we must be able to make a tax-free sum available to a citizen of, for example. Fifty thousand kroner that he can use to get out of long-term unemployment, start his own, become an entrepreneur, or that vulnerable citizens can use to get out of exposure, where he may be able to kick-start his life, restart his life, get his teeth fixed, get rid of his social phobia, get back on track. Two attempts are currently under way. There it is in Aarhus with the long-term unemployed who are really promising, where there are already examples that people have returned to the labour market or much, much closer to the labour market by means of this scheme, although they have been far away. The second attempt which is being referred to is an attempt which the alternative has got the pool of bets to try, and it is myself who has negotiated it. It is simply a matter of risky Danes having the opportunity to restart their lives and get a tax-free sum without a counterclaim of DKK 50,000, and it is not about just starting to hand out notes like this around the streets and squares. It's about sitting down on the bench next to a homeless or exposed Dane and saying: Listen, I actually have a capital that you can use to get back into society, if that's how you can suggest a really good, strong plan, which means you're getting closer to getting a life and getting closer to the labour market. It has proved itself and the first evaluations from the project in Denmark also show that the people they exposed, the homeless, are very much ready to take responsibility for their own lives, are very much experts on their own lives, and very much can use the money to come back, initially get a home, get a house, get a life, and in the second place you can get many of them back on the labour market. Then you can ask whether that is enough for us to allow the municipalities to spend their own money on doing this now. Yeah, I'd say so. It is about whether we should allow municipalities to spend their own money to help citizens move forward in this way. I think you should, and if you are not satisfied with the Danish experiments, you can just look abroad, to England, where you have made great experiments with homeless people, where even long-term homeless people have taken advantage of this opportunity to get roofs over their heads, to get rid of their challenges, and to, for some of them, even get to work. In England, this has become a tool which all municipalities have on the shelves, so it has simply been chosen from the experiments to say that this should be possible for all municipalities to offer vulnerable citizens. So it is clear that we support this proposal. The Aarhus project is, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has mentioned several times, indeed formed on a grant from the VELUX FUND. You can give money there when they come from such a fund, tax-free, counterclaim-free to a citizen. It's just something else when it's municipal money. Then we need to make legislation that allows them to be given tax-free, they must be given without counterclaims. That's what we had to do when we started the experiment with $50,000. from the Ministry of Social Affairs via the rate pool for personal budgets to vulnerable citizens. There we had to legislate in three ministries just to get that experiment going. Because you can't just give people money without giving them something in return. It looks as if all the experience suggests it by showing people that confidence, that is, by doing so, so to an enormous extent brings them forward because they really, are really able to be experts in their own lives and make a good action plan along with a good, advanced employee. It simply seems so reasonable that in the alternative we feel this way: let's get started. Unfortunately, it is very, very rare in this Chamber that good motions from the opposition will have a life. It is virtually impossible in principle to provide anything that is adopted, no matter how good it is. It's a bit of a shame because this is a really, really good proposal that could create progression. Every time you throw $50,000. I am sure, after a citizen, that a great deal more money will be made when the citizen is back on his feet, and that expenses which he might have had in the judiciary, in the social services, in the health services, etc. will be saved, so I believe that this is a super investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132415	There is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132420	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl for a completed excellent speech. I have one question, and it is that Mr. Torsten Gejl said it was something that the alternative had come through in the pool of rates to the socially vulnerable. I just don't remember it that way. I would remind you that we had a common pool of movements that brought this about and that several parties at the same meetings argued that the socially vulnerable should have the opportunity to have such a social rock map. I remember, of course, that the alternative argued for this, but will the rapporteur not confirm that there were several parties who did so? In this way, patenting proposals after an overall settlement is not very well done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132502	There it is, then, just to inform Mr. Karsten Hønge, who was not in the conciliation circle, because it was here in the Ministry of Social Affairs, that just as SF carries good proposals into the field, the Alternative also carries good proposals into the field, and this proposal on personal budgets for vulnerable was a proposal for which we had found inspiration in England and which we carried in, and we of course thank the conciliation circle for giving it support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132529	There are no more brief comments at the moment. So thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132546	Thank you for that and also thank you from the Radical Left to the SF for starting this important debate. I should like to welcome from the Enhedslisten, who could not be present, and say that they support the resolution. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that we do not support it at this stage. So there's a little good news and a little bad news to start with, but we're very positive about the idea and the principle of citizens' opportunities in this way. As has already been described, there are four municipalities that are engaged in a pool of rates, including Aarhus, which will give us new knowledge that we think is needed. We would very much like the citizen-led budgets, but we would like to know whether this is the right target group. Of course, we would very much like to know the price. On the other hand, we would like to give further impetus to the work on citizen-led budgets in the pool of rates. We would like to accept both the extended hand of the Minister and the Social Democrats and the goodwill of both the SF and the Alternative and others, and try to drive this forward more quickly than has been suggested. We will do that, not in the form of this particular proposal, but in relation to the work that is coming before us over the coming months and years, because it is, of course, an obvious right idea to give citizens the extra opportunity to be able to include the competences they have and the situation they are facing, much stronger in the work of getting them into the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We have another rapporteur, and that is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132720	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the SF for raising the debate here today. I always find it interesting to look at whether we can spend the money in the public sector better or more efficiently and more targeted, so thank you for that, and thank you for the debate so far. In the Conservative People's Party, we are always very open to seeing whether we can organise efforts to get citizens into jobs better and in the best way possible. That is also why, as many of the previous rapporteurs have said, we are looking forward to the results of the current pilot schemes with citizen-led budgets. Because there are some interesting ideas in this; that is to say, the idea that the citizen will be given more opportunity to organise his own efforts, I think actually sounds really good. It can be both motivating and may also make the effort better if it is adapted to the individual. But we also need to know whether there is value for money, as they say, in other words whether this is a more effective way of getting citizens into jobs, because it is therefore important for us. We would very much like to look constructively at a system of citizen-led budgets, but this requires that we have evidence that it works and that it will not just be such an opportunity to plan and organise a personally exciting development process. There may be many good reasons for this, but the aim must be that the citizen should get to work and not, which may also be a risk, keep the citizens in a path that is not a way into the labour market. This is an absolutely crucial aim for us, because it is, after all, funded by taxpayers' money. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution at this stage, but we would very much like to take up the discussion again when we know the results of these studies that are under way. So I would say that, despite the good intentions, we cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132923	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228132934	I would like to thank the rapporteur and also the Minister for accepting in a constructive way the spirit and content of the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. For us, the formal framework, in terms of whether it should be a motion for a resolution, whether we should have some kind of report from the committee, whether or not we should approach it in the evaluation of the pool funds, means much less. The point is that we must come up with a different approach to employment policy. We must remove some of the stones and trip threads that the municipalities experience when they want to make a special effort towards citizens who want to get to work. Today it is simply not possible; it is not legal for the municipalities to make a decision that this would actually be best for this citizen in terms of allocating some money, for example. to have visible tattoos removed that may be the obstacle that causes them not to get to work. A municipality cannot say: Now we are giving you some special money to start your own business, to get your teeth fixed so that you don't get seen crooked by colleagues. This type of decision cannot be taken today by the municipalities. So the SF proposal is that we remove some of the stones so that we can ask the experts what is best. And who are the experts? It's the citizens. Citizens are experts in their own lives. The municipalities must meet the citizens at eye level, and they must hand them a helping hand, which brings them forward from where they themselves are. One can also see that one of the reactions that was from a citizen's side in Aarhus, quoted by one of the leaders in the municipality, was • and that is the typical reaction: Well can I decide for myself? It is therefore a surprise that you are actually given some more power over your own life by the municipality instead of being imposed on something, being legally held, being assigned; so, instead of that, you are actually trusted that as the expert in your own life, that is, the citizen himself, you can be helped further. The then Councilman for Social Relations and Employment in Aarhus Thomas Medom says that they have turned the system upside down. And then he says: "We have done this by meeting people who have lost faith in themselves and that they could get to work, with confidence and in a different way than we normally do in our employment system. It is a way forward which, precisely by meeting people where they are, has a chance both to get the lives of those people right, but also to do so at a pace and in a way that makes sense and which in the longer term actually gets people into work. We can see a social worker named Mette-Mai Jensen from Aarhus who also speaks out and says that she has full confidence that the citizens know what is needed. She says, "I think people have an idea of what it takes. After all, they have been out of work for a long time and we are often approached by citizens who want something that cannot be done as the law is today. Then she also says: "The increase with self-budgeting is a bit of a rate for the municipality. I think it's great that we do it! I believe that this is a very good opportunity for citizens to move forward. So what it's all about here is that the hot water and the deep dishes are invented, but it's all about for us to get it spread.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133249	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133307	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133341	We have to discuss a bill which deals with the rules for foreigners who are not to be in Denmark but who are still staying in Denmark for various reasons. It acts among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Up to now, it has been considered that these foreigners were legally resident in Denmark. This has meant that they have been subject to a number of rules and rights. With this bill, foreigners on tolerated residence will not be legally resident in Denmark anymore. In our view, this is the right way to go, as it strengthens our ability to control where they are staying until it becomes possible to send out those concerned. The bill is also a natural follow-up to the Supreme Court's January 2017 ruling, which abolished the residence requirement for a number of foreigners on tolerated residence. This proposal introduces an obligation on foreigners to inform the police of their whereabouts. Finally, the draft law provides for the possibility for foreigners who do not have a residence obligation in an exit centre to be supported by the authorities' nearest accommodation sites, even if they live in private areas outside the centres. It is generally frightening to follow developments in a number of other European countries where an increasing number of citizens are staying without legal residence. This undermines the labour market, where a completely new sub-class is developing without rights. It also puts pressure on the salaries and working conditions of other employees. A growing group of foreigners without legal residence is also likely to mean more organized crime and the seduction and alienation of public space. Foreigners are welcome in Denmark, but we must insist that it be on a legal basis. This also means that foreigners who are deprived of their residence permit must leave the country. That must be the starting point. Therefore, there is a need for a strong focus on the fact that the number of rejected asylum seekers, foreigners on tolerated residences, foreign fighters and expelled criminals does not grow in this country and that these people's stays are monitored until repatriation can be ensured, and it is with the perspective that the Social Democracy can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133551	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133610	Thank you. The Danish People's Party sees L 165 as a tightening up in the field of foreigners, where people on tolerated residence now have the provisions on residence, notification and reporting obligations clarified. Among other things: A new and stricter interpretation of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights in relation to criminal foreigners and their freedom of movement has led to the need to reword some provisions of the Aliens Act. It is now clear that people who are illegally staying in the country cannot be said to have freedom of movement. That's what you used to think. At the same time, those who are on tolerating but who are not obliged to stay at Kærshovedgård must be obliged to report to the police where they are staying. They may be outside Kærshovedgård because they need special care in connection with illness and other matters. This must also be seen as a tightening up, as it gives the police a better overview of where people are. We see in the Danish People's Party L 165 as an attempt to clean up an area where people need to know where they are, because they are people who are unwanted in Denmark, so we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133737	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are continuing in the rapporteur's line and we have reached the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133756	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we want to strengthen the control of foreigners on tolerated residences, criminals expelled and other foreigners who are unwanted in Denmark. This is what we want for security reasons and because we need to know where they are so that they can be broadcast as soon as the opportunity arises. With this bill, we therefore propose that foreigners on toiled residence should be subject to residence, notification and reporting obligations, unless specific reasons, including Denmark's international obligations, speak against this. And then we make it quite clear that people who are on tolerated stays are illegally staying in Denmark, even if they are not currently able to return to their actual homeland. Such a definition means that they are no longer protected by the right to freedom of movement under the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, we propose to impose a duty of orientation on foreigners who have had their residence terminated. This means that they must inform the police and the Foreigners' Board of their permanent residence on a regular basis. In the Left, we would like these people to be sent home as soon as possible, but since that is not possible, we have the opportunity to ensure as close a check as possible on this proposal and, on that basis, the Left fully supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133908	Enjoy your meal and thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228133926	Subject to the legislation in force, the protection of freedom of movement provided for in the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights applies. The fact that people on tolerated residence should also be protected by human rights clearly bothers the government. It has set itself the objective of ensuring that people who are on toil have as few rights as possible and, at least, being excluded from the protection of human rights to which the rest of us in society are subject, if at all possible. And it seems it can be here. The government will therefore move the goalposts, so it is stated in the law that tolerated residence is not legal residence in Denmark. Thus, people on tolerated residences are not protected by the Additional Protocol and their freedom of movement can be further restricted. It's like what it says here. Then it may be appropriate in this place to remind you of what tolerated stay is and why it is there. Tolerated residence is a status we give to people who are sentenced to expulsion, who are excluded from asylum or who are suspected of being a threat to the security of the state, but why can we not? Yes, we cannot, because if we send them out, they risk torture, the death penalty or other degrading treatment in their country of origin. That is why we have the category of tolerated stay. And when we take away the rights of people who have been tolerated, when we make their lives as intolerable as possible... both the Minister and the Danish People's Party usually say that the purpose is that conditions should be as intolerable as possible... it is for the purpose of pushing them to return home with the risk that they are subjected to torture and the death penalty or other degrading treatment, something that makes us not legally able to impose them. So you find another way to do something that you cannot legally do, because after all it is not a humane state worthy of sending people to, for example. torture. In addition to this move of the goalposts, so that the protection of a group of people by human law is reduced, the bill lubricates another layer of meaningless control on top of the strict control regime that already exists for the people on tolerated residence. There are no documented difficulties in finding a person who is suffering in the rare cases where conditions in the country of origin change and the risk of torture, abuse and the death penalty disappear. This problem does not exist, and the many layers of checks called residence, reporting obligations, notification obligations, and this bill now also has the sole purpose of making life so intolerable that some people may be forced to return to a future at the risk of torture, the death penalty and other degrading treatment. In my opinion, not a very noble purpose. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134258	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134307	Thank you for the floor. The question of criminal foreigners is, of course, a question of the kind that can create a very deep division between what can be called the system and the citizens in quotation marks. There are many examples of this. And that distance gets smaller with this proposal, and it's really good. We must ensure, and we will also do so, effective control of foreigners who are living in Denmark and who have shown criminals, which is why it is, of course, positive that people on tolerated residence are now classified as illegally staying in Denmark. It is important that we know where this type of person who has committed serious crimes is staying, so that we can make a broadcast as soon as possible, and therefore the Liberal Alliance backs the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134409	You're welcome. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134424	Thank you. With this bill, the government will try to ensure control of the people we have endured in Denmark and who, after four years, will be released, if I may put it that way, precisely because previous judgments have shown that when you have lived 4 years at an exit centre on tolerated residence, you have actually been there as long as you can and must under international conventions, and then you have the right to freedom of movement. The government would like to reverse this by making it illegal to stay on board, because then you can reverse that provision. What lies in it, and as the Institute for Human Rights also points out in their hearing answer, is that even if you are not legally resident in Denmark, you are still covered by the Convention on Human Rights. Article 8 includes the right to privacy. And in the long term, it would be contrary to the right to privacy if the people on tolerated stays continue to live in these centres. So I certainly don't think that this bill solves the problem you want to solve. That is the one element. The second is, as I think Mr. Søren Søndergaard also said that I do not believe that we have seen problems with the people who have endured, who have then entered the community. I think, if this is going to solve a problem, that I would like to know what the problem really is. So on that basis, the alternative cannot support this bill. And I should like to say to Radicals that they do not support the bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134607	Thank you. We have therefore spoken on behalf of the Radicals now, so we move on to the SF's rapporteur, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134630	After all, this bill concerns people who are on tolerated. After all, it is important that we separate them from those who have been denied asylum. It is a special category, i.e. people who have either been criminals here in Denmark or committed crimes elsewhere. That is why it is reasonable, in our view, that there is such control and control of where they are. We supported the reporter's commitment, which was adopted earlier, and found it in order. The problem here is that there is a Supreme Court ruling which makes it impossible to do so in the same way as in the past, and that is why this bill comes in. It can then be said that the exercise one then enters into is that when the Supreme Court ruling states that one cannot impose the reporting obligation on the persons concerned or deprive them of their right to move freely as long as they are legally resident, it is this bill that makes it an illegal residence. One can discuss the appropriateness of the way in which it is done. But the background is that case from Belgium, where it was established that each country is actually allowed to do so itself. So as a starting point, we think it is okay to change it this way in order to be able to maintain, if I may say so, the residence and reporting obligations to which people on tolerated residence must live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134833	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228134846	Thank you. In Denmark, as you know, we currently have more than 70 people who are on holiday. It is people who have shown that they do not want Denmark. This group is not God's best children. We are talking about rapists, murderers and people who are a threat to Denmark's security. We often hear that these people have endured their punishment. They haven't. It is people who have not served the last part of their sentence, namely the sending of Denmark. They don't have any legal business here. They're not even supposed to be here. The residents of the area at the exit center feel for good reason insecure. That is why the safety and control of these people must be as comprehensive as possible within the framework of the law. We owe it to the residents of the area. With the bill, we create control to the benefit of the people who live in the area. We also make it clear that these people are not legally resident in Denmark. We can tolerate them being here as long as it takes us and not a moment longer. We make it clear that these people do not enjoy the same freedom of movement as law-abiding citizens. We think these people need to leave the country as soon as possible. This is among other things. Therefore, the government has hired some sending ambassadors who negotiate with different countries to welcome their own citizens. Hopefully, these tightenings give these people a little more incentives to check out of Denmark. This is another step in the right direction towards more repatriations. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135033	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135051	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for receiving this bill. I can see that there is very broad support for this. The draft law that we are discussing today is indeed, as several rapporteurs have said, a draft law which contains a number of various amendments to the law on foreigners, which, of course, specifically aims to increase the control of foreigners on tolerated residences, including foreigners who have their residences terminated. The government wants to ensure close control of foreigners on tolerated residences, criminal exiles and other foreigners who are undesirable in this country. Since its accession, therefore, the Government has carried out a number of reinforcements to the control of foreigners on tolerated residences and criminals expelled. There are, among other things: a notification obligation supplementing the residence and reporting obligation has been introduced and the penalties for breaching the control measures imposed have been tightened up. The increased control reflects the fact that the foreigners concerned must be sent as soon as possible and that, of course, the Danish authorities have a clear interest in monitoring the whereabouts of the persons concerned. The purpose of this bill is to further strengthen the ability of the Danish authorities to control foreigners who are undesirable in this country. With the bill, we state that foreigners on tolerated residence are illegally staying in Denmark. We are also making it quite clear with the bill to this group of foreigners that, even if they have abolished their residence obligation, the authorities continue to have an interest in knowing your place of residence, so that broadcasting can take place as soon as possible. There is just one more thing to say: thank you for receiving the bill. I look forward very much to further discussion, both here in Parliament and, of course, also in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135259	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135320	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135346	Thank you. Let me start by emphasising that it is the government's very clear position that people who have been denied asylum should of course go home. This also applies to families with children. In my view, it is quite unacceptable for rejected asylum seekers to choose not to comply with a requirement to return home and, by doing so, to take their children hostage. If rejected asylum seekers choose to cooperate with the authorities on the exit, they can go home, if not tomorrow, then at least in the very near future. It is not intended that rejected asylum seekers who do not comply with the requirement to return home should be put in sight a carrot if they oppose the rules. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers propose that the government should reinstate the previous scheme of 2012 for children's families who have been refused asylum to have the right to move in a special housing outside asylum centres 12 months after final refusal, and that children can be transferred to an exit centre at the earliest when the exit is imminent. Let me stress once again that it is actually possible to go home when you participate in your departure. As part of the deployment effort, a wide range of reception and reintegration services have been set up, which must be adapted to the needs of the individual. There is help to get training, job opportunities and other advice in the home country. In short, everything that makes it possible to get started again also applies to families with children. A number of families have also accepted help so that they could return home, for example. Iraq, Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Somalia. Moreover, it is also a much more dignified way of returning home. Therefore, voluntary departure is clearly preferable for all parties. The scheme for the possibility of accommodation in special dwellings was originally introduced in 2008. At that time, the agreement only covered the rejection of asylum seekers from countries for which there was no possibility of forced transmission. This scheme was then evaluated by an established working group in 2011. This was done by this working party, among others. It was pointed out that it is generally the lack of involvement of the families concerned which prevents the sending of Denmark. In September 2012, despite this, the scheme was extended to all nationalities. There are currently 13 families in special accommodations. They must return home as soon as possible. This also applies to children's families who are currently accommodated at the Excursion Centre Sjælsmark. I do not see any reason for reintroducing the scheme proposed in this motion for a resolution, and this is supported only by the fact that previous studies have shown that the families who were accommodated under the scheme could not be sent out because of their lack of cooperation. I also look forward to the further consideration of this motion for a resolution, and just for the sake of good order, it is clear that the government is completely opposed to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135735	Thank you, Minister. There are currently three inscribed for short remarks. The first is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135743	Thank you. I assume that the Minister also has the latest statements. You may also come from the Minister's own ministry, but of course also from the Ombudsman's statement. 103 reports on miserable children! Doesn't that impress the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135808	Yes, it makes an impression, and what makes the most impression is that parents let it happen; that parents do not follow the instructions given to them by Danish authorities that they should leave Denmark. They have no right to be here, and it simply cannot be changed in any way that children are therefore the responsibility of parents. The parents are taking these kids hostage. They do not have the right to stay in Denmark. Despite that, they stay here and they have to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135838	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135840	So no matter what happens to these kids, no matter how much they're miserable, no matter how things get worse, no matter how these families can't and won't leave, no matter how much it's the minister who can make repatriation agreements, and not the families, no matter what, the minister will continue to have the children locked up here in Soulsmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228135913	So what Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is saying is simply completely wrong. First of all, they're not locked up in Soulsmark. They live in Soulsmark. They're not locked up. And it is simply pointless to try to give a completely wrong picture of what reality is like. Secondly, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, these people can go home. They will, and there's no point in trying to put up such a falsum here. Children are parents' responsibility. Parents do not have the right to stay in Denmark. Of course, they must take their children with them. We're doing everything we can to give these kids the best possible everyday life. They go to school. They go to kindergarten. There are leisure activities. But we cannot take away from them that their parents refuse to leave Denmark, despite the fact that they have no right to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140008	The next brief remark is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140013	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with me that all children living in Denmark and also these children of rejected asylum seekers are the responsibility of the Danish authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140034	No, children are parents' responsibility, and to the extent that parents cannot take responsibility, we have authorities in Denmark that go in and help.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140041	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140044	But then I would like to hear how the Minister is dealing with this in relation to, let's say, a child who goes to a Danish primary school in society and who for some reason is not being properly cared for by his parents, maybe he is not getting enough food, what I know, but there is a need for the authorities to intervene. Fortunately, we have a system in Denmark which means that the authorities must take care of those children. Then we can think that wherever the blame lies, in relation to the child's misfortune on Soulsmark, the Danish authorities at the moment they do not thrive are responsible for their thriving. Does the Minister not agree with me that it is ultimately the responsibility of the Danish authorities for these children to thrive?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140126	That is why there is also a system whereby action is taken if these children are not, it can be said, thrive in the way in which it is serious. But we can't take these children away, though we would so much like to lift the yoke from their shoulders, that they have parents who take them hostage they take them hostage in Denmark. And that is what is totally unacceptable. These families have no right to stay in Denmark; they have to go home. And I know that we are fundamentally divided on this matter and that the alternative, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF want to be able to decide for themselves whether or not to leave Denmark. But it just doesn't work that way. That's why they live in the Soul Field. They can go home tomorrow, if they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140217	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140220	Let me start by stating that the Minister is totally unfit to interpret what at least the Enhedslisten, but I also think the Radical Left and the Alternative mean in this matter. I mean, something so completely ridiculous as saying that we think people should decide for themselves to go out is just too stupid. But that is the level, and I recognise that. I am trying to ask a serious question: what does the Minister think is the reason why people, and now I am not talking about the children, but about the parents who for a long time are being placed under the conditions that are currently being placed under them on Soulsmark, and who do not have the prospect of a life in Denmark, regardless of which of the parties that are in the Folketing today who rule the country, choose that life rather than just go home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140319	Yes, they will think that the conditions in Denmark are, after all, better than those they can get home to, but perhaps they have a false hope that they can stay in Denmark. I don't know. It's hard for me to say. At any rate, I can only say that they refuse to leave, even if they do not have the right to stay here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140336	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140339	One would just think that it was some of the things that would interest a minister first; to try to understand the problem: What is the real reason why these people, who can be allowed to sit and stare into a wall up on Soulsmark, choose it rather than go home? I think the Minister, if she tried to understand it, would see that this is actually due to the fact that those people fear going home, and that fear may be completely unfounded • completely unfounded • and it may be that nothing happens to them and that the Danish authorities are absolutely right, but they have the fear. And that is why my question is whether the task is not to remove the fear of getting them to go home rather than just sit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140422	We are also doing everything we can to do that, because there is plenty of advice for these families too. It is not the case that you cannot be advised. The refugee aid, in other words Danish Refugee Aid, is very active on that front, and I assume that Mr. Søren Søndergaard is well aware.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140440	I do not think there are any more short comments at the moment, so thank you to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228140458	Thank you. Today we have to discuss how best to deal with situations in which foreigners who are not legally resident in Denmark refuse to leave the country. These are families who have applied for asylum in Denmark but who have been refused because they have no need of protection. Today, rejected asylum seekers must stay at an exit centre outside Roskilde until they can return home. If they're working against the government's efforts to secure this return, they're in danger of being sent home by force. However, there are a few countries which only receive their own nationals if they are returned voluntarily: e.g. Iran and Iraq. Rejected asylum seekers from these countries can thus avoid repatriation as long as they oppose the authorities and the decision of independent judges on the Refugee Board. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. We live in a state governed by the rule of law, and the law must be respected, and that also applies to the law on foreigners. Foreigners who oppose Danish authorities must stay at an exit centre in Midtjylland or another in North Zealand if they are families with children. These are the rules for the latter that we are discussing today. The alternative, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF propose that families who have been refused asylum and told to leave Denmark should still have a residence and a life in Denmark if they have opposed the authorities for 12 months. Of course, I understand the sympathetic thoughts behind this, namely that these children will not have a satisfactory upbringing as long as they live in an exit centre in a country where they have no future. Of course, it would be better for them to have a life in Denmark where they could have an education and a normal child's life. After all, it is not the children's fault that their parents work against the decisions of independent judges in the Refugee Board. However, although I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the matter here in the Folketing, I also think that the parties behind it are jumping over where it is lowest and it does not seem quite well thought out. Firstly, I believe that the authors of the motion should give careful consideration to whether asylum policy in Denmark should really be designed so as to provide accommodation and living in Denmark, regardless of whether you need protection or not. This will actually mean free immigration from the countries to which Denmark cannot send people by force. Secondly, I believe that the proposers should consider carefully whether it is in the children's interest that we go back to the old rules where children actually grew up in Denmark for years, even if they had no legal residence. You never get an education, a job or a future here. Are you really sure this is for the good of the kids in the long run? When they stop in primary school, they will not be able to go to youth education, they can never earn their own money, establish a life, even with the policy that is your own. Is it really sensible to set up a system that will allow children to grow up like this? Thirdly, I believe that the authors of the motion should give careful consideration to whether they do not run the risk that many, many more children will end up in this unfortunate situation if the proposal is implemented. Remember that by far, the vast majority of foreigners abide by the rules. They will be part of society if they are granted asylum, but they will leave the country if they are refused. That's normal. Do you not think that many more parents would oppose the decision of the authorities if the rules were designed to wait 12 months after a refusal to live in Denmark? I think the proposers owe it to them to think all this through properly. However, we agree with the authors on an important point. The Ombudsman's report on the situation in Soulsmark should give thought here at Christiansborg. The children should be better shielded. When I read the report from the Ombudsman, I noted that the children suffer from the general fact that their parents are not legally resident in Denmark. It's obvious and logical. Of course, it affects the children that parents do not work and that they are in an eternal conflict with the authorities, but I also noted that the Ombudsman also points to the Travel Centre Soulsmark. Can it be arranged in a way that better protects the children? We would very much like to be involved in discussing this in the Social Democratic Party. We dare not put our heads on the block and guarantee that the current government has found the right balance at the centre. The Ombudsman himself points out that it was possible to improve the opening hours of the canteen, the composition of the food, to provide written information on the supply of food to children, to provide refrigerators, microwaves, etc. and establish additional offers of activities for children after the closing hours of leisure clubs. All this is relevant. But we just don't have to tell each other that these changes alone will give the kids the life they deserve. They will still grow up with their parents who live without legal basis. That is the basic problem, but this proposal does not deal with it. Finally, I would like to say that the proposers refer to the UN Children's Convention and the wordings which say that the best interests of the child must always be taken into account. We agree with that, of course, and it is also clear from Danish legislation, but we cannot as a society sit back and say that this is the responsibility of the parents, and the children must then sail their own lake. That is why we have social policy in that country and, of course, it also applies to exit centres. The municipality of Hørsholm is already doing an extensive and fine job; information is being monitored, and on this basis support measures are being initiated in accordance with the legislation we have in Denmark. It can be relief, voluntary placement or, ultimately, forced detention, not to punish the parents, but to help the children. It can't be different. In those words, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141019	Thank you. Four comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141028	Thank you. This morning we read at Everything that this is an absolute demand from the parties that have tabled the proposal here. I think that we are perhaps more than one in this Chamber who is a little curious about how Social Democracy is in relation to that demand and any support party or government partner, if this is an ultimate requirement to support Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141054	Our policy is fairly clear with the arguments I have put forward here. I do not think it would be in the interest of Danish society, but I do not believe that it would be in the children's interest for us to establish a rule that, if you only oppose the authorities for 12 months, you will have a life in Denmark. I do not believe that it is intended to end up what the consequences of this will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141117	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141120	After all, I am glad to have that answer. Then Mr. Mattias Tesfaye forced arrests. There I have actually asked what is actually going on with the forced children if the parents are going out if we imagine that the parents are going out. By Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, what's gonna happen to those kids?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141145	This is a very relevant question, which we have also been discussing for some time now in the Danish Parliament, and the Minister has also been in consultation where I have asked specifically about the law in this. I could then understand that the Ombudsman certainly does not believe that there is complete clarity as to whether the Service Act, that is. social policy, applies to children who have no legal residence in Denmark and live in exit centres. That is why we find a slightly different legal approach to this, but I can also understand from the government that they are going to put forward legislative proposals to clean it up and to provide a clearer legal basis for which parts of the Services Act, if any, are applicable to these children. In any case, we would just like to say from the Social Democrats that our starting point is that social policy must also apply to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141232	The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141237	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye says it doesn't seem well thought out. I can assure you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye says that the 2012 law was very well thought out by Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's party at that time, and that is why I would like to ask Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: Does the rapporteur and his party have any evidence that more broadcasts would take place by having the families sitting on Soulsmark? Is there evidence that it is a better solution to get families to travel than what they did in 2012 when they had families travel and put them in Soulsmark when the journey was imminent, so that there was no such problem among children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141331	I think that is also a very relevant question. You can boil it down to: What does it really work? What I can at least see is that the old regime did not work satisfactorily. Now a new regime of exits has been established, which I think is commonplace in itself, namely that residence is for those who are granted asylum. In addition, we can at least see that although there are a growing number of children in Zealand, there are also quite a few who arrive in Zealand, but who leave Denmark, or who we at least do not know where is in Denmark, and where the police estimate that the most likely thing is that they are not staying in Denmark anymore. After all, I think that is also worth taking into account what is working and what is not working. I can see that there is a small hard core of families who are there for a long time. I think that is a separate political problem. I would just like to warn against the fact that we are organising the entire asylum policy after a very, very small proportion of the rejected asylum seekers, who are those who have been at the exit centres for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141430	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141433	No one is planning asylum policy. It is a question of resolving the problems that are quite openly there and which the rapporteur, fortunately, also recognises, namely the massive misfortune of children. They lose weight, they can't function as children. It is not, of course, a question of giving you the right to stay in Denmark. It is a question of where one stays until one can travel and whether it leads to dissatisfaction. I would like to follow up on that with a question: does Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and his party really, that forced removal of children from their parents, because they are in Soulsmark, can be the best solution to the problem of child dissatisfaction?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141519	To the end, I can say a clear no. Because it is not because of the circumstances in which families are, that you can make use of the Service Act, either when it comes to voluntary placements or involuntary placements. It is about the parents' ability to be parents, just as it does outside the exit centres. But I would like to stick to one thing, and that is whether this is a change in asylum policy or whether it is only about the very few families that are in Soulsmark. There I would insist that this is a general change in Danish asylum policy. Now I just pulled out some numbers for fun. There were 21,000 asylum seekers in 2015. Of them 3,500 were refused, and 171 of them are in the Soul Field. That's less than 1%. We must be careful not to set up the legislation in such a way that we say to the remaining, that is to say, the vast majority of foreigners who are in the asylum system and who comply with the rules, that if they work against the rules, there is still a life in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141609	The next brief remark is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141613	Those numbers were amazing. There's a lot that hasn't been transferred yet. They wait until after the elections with no transfer, because otherwise there will be trouble up in Hørsholm for the Conservatives and the Left. So, well, these are totally absurd numbers. Well, leave it alone. Now Mr. Mattias Tesfaye very much out of the fact that it was such a thoughtless proposal we had made. That is why I should like to ask whether Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also believes that the Social Democratic group chairman and committee chairman of children and young people in Hørsholm City Council suffers from the same thoughtlessness when he wrote to the newspaper.dk recently: "Children weigh heavier than any political consideration... The Aliens Act is too harsh on children. They must live under different conditions. They can be in Soulsmark for a number of months and must then be offered something else. ▪ Is that also an expression of vanity of thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141712	I didn't say there's someone with a lack of thought. Especially when we are in the difficult dilemmas of foreign policy, I think we should all make every effort not to put motives or arguments in each other's mouths. I say, "I don't think it's meant to end," I don't think it is. I understand if you're sitting in a town hall in Hørsholm that this situation is unsatisfactory. I just think that here in the Folketing we have a responsibility to think in whole, and part of the whole are the figures that are not absurd, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur says. They're not absurd. I refer from the answer to question No. 328 which I received here on 5 February. I find it interesting to think that 21.316 applied for asylum in Denmark in 2015. I know that these are the numbers where there were many, but that's to get the best statistics. Of them, we refused 3.570. That's 171 of the population staying in Soulsmark. It's interesting that we're talking about less than 1%. of those who have sought asylum and that a general change in asylum policy is now proposed on the basis of 0.8%. of those who have applied for asylum. That's what I mean isn't meant to end. You stare blindly at the small group instead of considering what the consequences can be for the big one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141831	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141835	So, these numbers only make sense if the others who are not in the field of souls, up to the 3,000 and something, are left out. Are they? Are they out of town? Otherwise, the figures make absolutely no sense. But what I find interesting is how to deal with what the Socialist Group chairman and committee chairman in Hørsholm say. Well, is this just an expression that they haven't thought it through? Is this a result, or what about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228141917	I believe that the Socialist Group chairman in Hørsholm, whom I know very well and have discussed this with several times, is a good local politician who, of course, objects to his own municipality, for example. uses an entire official to do nothing but handle notifications from Soulsmark. I understand that they are responding to that. It is not pleasant to have the wrong side of the immigration policy lying in its own municipality. You can also go to Kalvehave or Bording and you will also hear people who have very strong attitudes. What's just our responsibility here is to take care of the whole how many of the others are left? Yes, per. January 15th there were 453 at Kertrudegård, 171 at Soulsmark. That is what is in the exit system. The vast majority of people living in the Danish asylum system follow the rules. Now the Enhedslisten proposes to align asylum policy with those who are not that I find problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142024	The last to brief remarks is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142029	Nah, what we are proposing is to ensure that children who do not thrive in Danish society, in Denmark, regardless of their parents having to go home, get some decent conditions to grow up under. And by that I would also like to refer to what the rapporteur himself said in his speech, namely whether we really believe that this is well thought out and whether we really believe that this is the best thing for children in the long term. Yes, we are doing so together with Save the Child and Children's Terms and the Red Cross and the Ombudsman. So when the rapporteur stands up and says that the best solution for social democracy is that these children must then be forcibly removed from their parents, should we really understand that this is what the Social Democrats think we should do about the issue that is on Soulsmark right now? Is this the Social Democrat solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142120	But I would like to start by saying that I think it is bound to be irresponsible to claim that the Social Democrats' proposal is to remove children from the labour market. We say that, like all children in this country, the Service Act applies to them too. This means that, fortunately, if parents are not able to be parents, we are in the situation of public employees, for example. Pedagogics are subject to a more stringent notification obligation. It goes to the municipality's town hall, and there they have to supervise and conduct a children's study. If there is a need for relief, the municipality initiates it; if there is a need for voluntary placement, the municipality initiates it; and if there is a need for involuntary placement, then the municipality also initiates it according to the very same principles as apply in all other places. Our social policy is not that all children who are ill should be forced to be removed either in Brøndby Strand or in Soulsmark. Then I think that the alternative should be careful not to take the Ombudsman as an income for the motion for a resolution. That is certainly not how I have heard his statements or read his reports.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142215	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142218	So, we can, of course, refer to what the Ombudsman writes in his report, namely that, according to the information available, it is my assessment that the difficulties for the children associated with the exit centre are not primarily attributable to the facilities, etc. in the centre, but to a greater extent the fact that under the Aliens Act there is an obligation for the persons concerned to live there. And by the way, he writes elsewhere that living in the Soul Field for children limits their possibilities for natural manifestation of life. Then you can interpret it as you like, but the way we interpret it is certainly that it is not good for children to live in Soulsmark for long periods of time. That's why we're trying to find a solution. In relation to the other, I would say that we could probably find a solution to prevent us from having to go into information, which is called: let these families live out in the ordinary community until they can go home. Because then we would not have to go into the question of notifications and, if necessary, forced removal. Can we not understand that perspective on the part of the Social Democrats? And what does the Social Democratic Party say to the organizations that are out criticizing that children live in Soulsmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142319	Well, that's five questions. I did not write them all down, but I would like to stress that, in our view, there must of course be proper conditions. We must do everything we can to protect those children, and I believe that the Ombudsman's report outlines some of the issues we should be talking about. That is one of the things I also mention in my statement. If I maintain that the alternative cannot refer to the Ombudsman and say that he supports the motion for a resolution, then I really think that the alternative rapporteur himself is lifting the argument for what I am saying. There is indeed read from page 1 of the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report, but it does not say that the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament recommends that the legislation be amended. He assesses, within the framework of existing legislation, how it is doing and how the children are doing. I think that is quite relevant. However, I do not think that the Ombudsman can be taken as an income for the resolution we are debating now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142405	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments at the moment. The next speaker in the rapporteur's series is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142426	Yeah, here we are again. This is not the first time we have talked about the children's conditions in Soulsmark, and the Danish People's Party has not changed its position since the last or the last time or the other times we have discussed it here. The children who are in Soulsmark are the parents' responsibility. When you keep putting forward these proposals to improve these conditions and make it better for these families, it's amazing that you can't really see that if you make things better and better, you remove the incentive to go out at all. It's almost self-sustaining. So we really see the proposal as a kind of reward behavior for people who do not comply with the Danish authorities. How one might think it is a good idea to reward people who do not want to conform to the rules is quite hopeless. The Danish People's Party does not, of course, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142541	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we think it is very sad that children should grow up in an exit centre. It should not be forgotten that the reason why they are staying at an exit centre is that parents do not want to go home, even if they do not have the right to stay in Denmark. They have been definitively refused asylum, which also means that all relevant bodies have established that they do not need protection in Denmark and that they are obliged under Danish law to return home. If parents wanted to, most of them could go home tomorrow and thus offer their children a better life. So it is the parents who take children and push them in front of them, and it is incredibly sad. Having said that, I fully acknowledge that it is not an easy talk because there are children involved. This is often the case in the field of immigration and integration, which affects difficult fates, and especially when the well-being of children is at stake, but we need to find a balance. Of course, the best thing would be for the families to go home. Since the situation is that they do not want to go home, we are aware of the difficult situation that puts children in. Therefore, children are offered among other things. opportunities for education and leisure activities. Instead, if we allow asylum families to stay outside the centres, it would be the same as saying that rejected asylum seekers with children are not equal before the law. In addition, such a solution would not just remove the incentive for rejected asylum seekers to go home. It will also make it more attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. We will not be involved in this. That is why the Left does not support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142719	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228142737	Thank you. At the beginning of January, my colleague visited Mr. The birds of food, and I the fields of soul. Such a cold January day Sjælsmark seems to be a little hopeless place, not so much because of the physical framework, but because people live who have not had their dream of a life in Denmark fulfilled. But they are people who have been dealt with by the authorities, and they do not have the right to protection in Denmark, they have to go home, and they do not want to. Their home countries will not receive them if they do not leave voluntarily. So how are we supposed to deal with this? Shall we say, okay, then you get to live in the community? Should we regulate that people do not follow the decisions of the authorities? No, of course not. It would create an incentive for people to come here, to be denied protection, and then it had no consequence in the real world. It is not acceptable that it should be obvious, even if it is tragic that there are people who do not follow the decisions of the authorities and that, of course, this has consequences for their children. I see this as one of the sort of cases where we have to show responsibility and where we have sympathy for the specific people, and I think we all have that, but where we have to use our common sense, because of course we should not regulate that people do not follow the decisions of the authorities. That is why, of course, we cannot support this proposal either, because it will provide an incentive for people not to respect the decisions of the authorities; people will come here and say that you just have to live in Soulsmark for 12 months, and then you are back in society, and then you can establish yourself there. It just doesn't work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143032	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143036	All I need to know is if it's Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen's view that the question of the exit is chained to the place where you live. In other words, if you have been given an exit judgment or decision, I suppose you have to leave wherever you live. I hope that the judgment or decision of departure will not be annulled by the fact that you live in a place where your children can cook themselves or can help to be food. At least I know some other rules. I have not seen the paragraph that says: if you live in a place where you can cook yourself, then the exit decision is repealed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143121	No, that is absolutely correct. But if you do not want to travel, if you do not participate in your return, your home country will not accept you unless, of course, we have an agreement with your home country, but we do not have that in many of these cases. Therefore, the situation will arise that people will of course say: I do not want to travel. That is why we will not be able to send those people home. After all, it is equally clear that if you are allowed to establish yourself in society, which is the dream that you have and I know God knows that you have been there, then of course you will not come to the conclusion that you say: Now I am going home. Because what you want to do is live here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143204	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143208	After all, no one has the dream that at 14 days' notice or less they should be able to learn that they have to come to an exit centre and then be put on an airplane and sent back. And that's what's going on. That's not gonna change. I simply do not understand the premise. So whether you live in Soulsmark and do not have the right to cook, or you live in apartment just outside Soulsmark, and the children have the right to cook, it is in both situations that if there is an opportunity to send a home, it will happen at short notice. You get picked up, out of the guard! - Sir... Joachim B. Olsen doesn't confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143253	No, actually, it's not like that. We can and their countries won't receive them if they don't want to travel voluntarily. So why should they suddenly come to the conclusion that they now want to travel voluntarily when they have had their dream of a life outside Soulsmark fulfilled? That's not gonna happen. So we have arranged so that when you have got your case rejected, you have to live in Soulsmark. It is meant as a temporary measure, and for temporary accommodation conditions are fine. So we have arranged the Soul Field for what it is intended for, namely temporary stay. Then there are some who choose to live there for a long time because they do not go home. And we cannot send them home because their countries will not receive them if they do not want to travel voluntarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143339	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143343	But isn't it true that it doesn't change? The fact that one can send out the families does not change whether they live outside the Soul field or in the Soul field. That relationship is the same. And is it not also correct that the rapporteur can confirm that there have been several broadcasts, that it has been possible to get more agreements, that more have agreed to travel voluntarily because they have been held in Soulsmark for so long?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143422	Well, it's absolutely true that it doesn't really change the matter, whether you live outside Soulsmark or not. That's right. But it would create an incentive to stay in Denmark because you had your dream of a life in Denmark fulfilled. Why should this make a person more inclined to go home voluntarily? The fact is that the case has been dealt with under Danish law, international conventions have been complied with and there is no right to protection in Denmark. Some, before coming to Denmark, had received protection elsewhere in the neighbourhoods.That's what most people, including the Radicals, would like to see and then they have gone to Denmark anyway, because they want to live in Denmark. And that's why they've been denied protection here. Some have family members in Denmark, and that is why they want to be here. I kind of get that. But the people concerned do not have the right to live in Denmark, which is why they have to go out. If we then say: Now you will have your desire for a life outside the Soulsmark fulfilled then it will not make them more likely to go home voluntarily. Well, I think that's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143534	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143538	Now I also asked the Socialist rapporteur, but it is well understood, is it not true, that the rapporteur cannot prove that the fact that they have been kept in Soulsmark should lead to more people wanting to travel voluntarily? After all, the rapporteur's party was included in the 2012 agreement, it has to be assumed, some of these considerations, namely that we need to treat these children better and get more repatriation agreements in place, because that is what works when it comes to getting these families to travel. But I ask again: can the rapporteur demonstrate that it has led to more voluntary departures that they have been kept in Soulsmark for so long?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143619	Of course, this means that more people travel voluntarily when you cannot have your dream of a life in Denmark fulfilled and you have to live at an exit center. Of course it does. Well, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143634	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143638	It is always an argument to say that it is obvious! The question was whether Mr. Joachim B. Olsen can document it. That it's obvious, anyone can come and say. The question is how many it can be shown has gone home because of these intolerable conditions in Soulsmark. That is what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143703	First of all, I would like to say that the conditions in the field of Soul are not intolerable, for one must see the conditions in the field of Soul in relation to what it is designed for. It is made as a temporary place where people live for a short period of time before they go home to their homeland. We have designed Soulsmark according to what the law is like. Then there are some people who do not choose to follow the decision of the authorities. Then the question is whether we should say: it is really a pity that people do not want to follow the decision of the authorities, but then we just have to give in and let people live in society. Well, I can ask the other way. Holger K. Nielsen demonstrates that people will actually voluntarily go home if they were allowed to live outside Soulsmark? No, of course common sense suggests that it means that more people travel voluntarily when they do not fulfill the dream of these people that I can understand that they have and that they should stay on Soulsmark. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143813	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143817	Now I don't think it's connected anywhere. The whole argument against making things a little better for the children is, in fact, what this is all about: if we do that, you will lose an incentive to go home. The prerequisite that must lie in this is that at the moment the incentive would not be provided otherwise the argument could not be that way. That's why we're asking if we can't get some numbers. Can we not find out how many people have decided to go home because the children feel as badly in Soulsmark as they do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143901	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143904	The problems in Soulsmark are due to the fact that the parents do not follow the decision of the authorities and go home. Parents say that they would rather be here, that they would rather have their children living here without hope, rather than going back to their country of origin or to the country where they actually first got protection in the neighbourhood. I don't think that's a responsible decision for parents to make. However, it is common sense to say that this naturally leads to more people going home and that, of course, it also leads to fewer people getting here in the first place, if that is the case, you know that you are not allowed to stay if you have no right to stay. If we said that they are just allowed to enter society and live there, even if they do not follow the direction of the authorities, there will of course be more to Denmark. Well, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228143958	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144009	Thank you. I think I will start by sticking to the problem we have just had, namely whether you get a greater incentive to go home or not by living in a place like Soulsmark. And I quite agree with both of you. Holger K. Nielsen and Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen when they ask for documentation, so that we can actually see that being accommodated on Soulsmark makes more people travel home. For this evidence is not available. It tells us that there must be some other things behind it; there must be something else behind it when there are some who do not go home. Some of those who understand it have, as among other things. Michala Bendixen from Refugees Welcome, the several times been out to point out that living in a place like Soulsmark as a family and as an adult for that matter can simply cause so much distrust and impotence that you do not have the resources to contribute to and see for yourself that you have to go home. It actually destroys all the opportunities and resources that exist, not only in view of looking past the hopelessness of the situation in which you are, but also in view of the hopelessness of what lies ahead that you do not know what is. So it's the uncertainty, it's the doubt, it's the fear of going somewhere where you might not have a network, where you don't know what to do, where you don't know if there's any chance of sustaining a life. These are all the things that, along with living in a place that breaks you down because you cannot act as an ordinary family and as an ordinary human being, make it difficult to go home if you ask those who actually understand it. So I think we should keep in mind that it is not just us in here who make assumptions about why it is that you do not go home. Because that's what this debate has been all about. Maybe we should try asking some of those who actually know about it. Compared to this, sir. Mattias Tesfaye said that we should not change the law in the case of a small percentage, I would say that one could reverse that argument and say: since so few people seem to have this challenge, why is it that we are not helping the few? And now I'm talking about the kids. Then why is it that we, as Parliament, cannot go in and say: well, those people who seem to have this challenge, who for various reasons do not go home and whose children are miserable in Soulsmark, why can we not help them? Then there are some who will say: Well then we will open a barn gate, and then the entire population of the world will roll into Denmark. I don't think so. But if nothing else, you could start by helping the children that exist in Soulsmark and that do not thrive. And then I'd like to say, you still have to go home. So, as Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen also said: when we present this motion for a resolution, it is not the case that we say: well, then let us get them into society and get a home, and then we forget all about them. So, they have no right to work; they have no rights in Denmark; they cannot live a normal life that way. But they can be allowed to live outside society in an institution while waiting to get home. And what are we seeing? Well we see the Ombudsman's report where he says: It is my view that children in the Travel Centre Soulsmark generally have to be said to live under difficult conditions; these conditions are, for me, suitable to significantly complicate their upbringing and limit their opportunities for natural development and manifestation of life. Red Cross says the kids go to bed hungry. The health personnel in Soulsmark say that the children lose 1-2 kg. The SFO employees tell us that they see increasing dissatisfaction and frustration among these children. That's reality. And it is society, it is us politicians who have created that system. You could say it's the parents' fault. Some people think so. Somewhere I don't really care if you think it's the parents who take their children hostage here. I mean, it's us as communities, as politicians, who take these kids hostage. Because in the end, it is we who are the authorities and those who are children. We are the authorities, and they are children. These are children we are talking about, and I simply cannot understand how we, as a Parliament, cannot go in and ensure conditions for children who are in our country, completely regardless of what their parents may have made of stupid or wise decisions. And I just think that one day we're gonna realize what it was we could have done that we didn't, to make sure that these kids for whom it's gonna have long-lasting consequences to have grown up and lived as long in Soulsmark as some of them have done anyway got a upbringing that was just about safe, fairly normal. 'Cause I don't think we should be blind to what this has to do with long-term consequences for these kids. I do not think I am the only one looking at that way, because there have also been experts out saying that it is worrying what this may have to do with children in the long term. So if we really have an interest in helping these kids, we make sure they get out to live in society, outside Soulsmark, until they have to go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144515	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144520	I got a little confused here during the presentation. Isn't it true that you only go to Soulsmark if you don't help to go home? And if you don't, you don't come there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144536	Yes, it is true that you are in Soulsmark if you do not help to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144539	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144542	How, then, can one stand on Parliament's platform and claim that it is the conditions in Soulsmark that make them suddenly not participate? There's something that doesn't really make sense here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144552	My point is that when you don't help to travel home, it leads to you being placed in a place like Soulsmark, which was a new invention back in which I don't remember if it was in 2014, you made the changes, where you had these people living in society earlier with reporting obligations. But when you place people on something similar to an institution like Soulsmark, I do not think it is conducive for them to have the profit in everyday life to contribute to their own return journey. That is, in fact, my point, and that is what Refugees Welcome also points to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144624	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144627	But what is being said now is totally illogical. Why should one be involved in repatriation if one came out of Soulsmark, when one did not participate in repatriation, since one did not live in Soulsmark? That is where the rapporteur really must try to enlighten me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144647	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144649	Because when you live in Soulsmark and you live in conditions that require so much of your profits to be able to stand there at all, there is not much profit left to sit down with the employee from the authorities who is actually to help you be safe about being sent home. The challenge is, of course, the insecurity of these people in relation to the prospects for the life that awaits them in their country of origin. Then the rapporteur can think that it is only because they want to live in Denmark. I simply do not believe that. After all, there is no life in Denmark when you do not have a residence permit and have no right to be here, because you have no rights. So the point is that life on Soulsmark takes so much of the energy out of these people, and the rapporteur may disagree with me on that, but if you ask Refugees Welcome, that's what they're saying. So the profits are not there to go constructively into that cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144739	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144742	Then why was it that you didn't contribute to your return because you didn't live at the center?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144751	I can't answer that in the first place, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144755	Then we thank Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228144809	Soul field is a disgrace. For children living in Soulsmark, it is not just bad, they are miserable to a large extent. They lose weight, according to health professionals, they go hungry to bed, their parents are not allowed to cook for them. It is all from the Ombudsman's report. They show clear signs of frustration, aggression and widespread concern, and this damages their ability to act as people • specifically as people and as children. The truth is, we're hurting children with our eyes open. We could change the everyday life of these kids. We could do this with very few gripes; a majority in the Folketing could do that. Instead, however, a majority in the Folketing says that it is the parents' responsibility: the parents push the children in front of them because they do not want to leave Denmark. But it is just as much the majority here in the Danish Parliament that pushes the children before them in spite of the fact that I am tempted to say in childish defiance. The majority will show their power to the parents: Do not think that you are anything. But the problem is that these children cannot be used for anything, and that is unworthy, and I think that is irresponsible. Because you can never take kids hostage. After all, we are a community governed by the rule of law. We don't take hostages when we're not at war, and we never take children hostage. Because it's not in the best interests of the child. It's not in line with our values. It's not okay. So let the families move out of Soulsmark until they can be sent out, let the children go to school, let the families cook their own food; stop taking children hostage in the power struggle. Because it's won. Let children be children, and I feel so now that it seems a lot like what Natasha wrote about in his song: It's talk, it's snick, it's top rhetoric, it's not politics, it's bullshit and polemics. Because this doesn't solve any real problems. I have asked several rapporteurs about this and no one can provide evidence that it solves any problems at all. Instead, it creates new ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145115	It is true that when you quote, you have to quote correctly. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145121	I would like to ask you about this: is it not true that a community governed by law is characterised by the fact that, if the rules are not followed, there is a sanction and that a community governed by law is also characterised by the fact that the rules of the legal society are not adapted to those who do not follow the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145138	That is quite correct, and this is about how we treat children. That's what this is about. That's why the rules are that these people should be sent out, but whether they live in one place or another, it doesn't change when they're sent out. None of the rapporteurs have been able to provide evidence of this. It is clearly also my view that, regardless of whether you got a little more out, this was an unworthy way of treating children. But no one has been able to prove it, and the penalty is the same: these people must be expelled. What we are talking about is: what happens until that happens? How do you treat children during that period? That's the rule of law I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145219	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145222	It sounds like a different view of a community of law to that I have known in my studies. But let it be. The Ombudsman's report points out that the real reason why these children do not thrive is that their parents cannot stay in Denmark, and that is the fact that we cannot change. So what will the Radical Left do about the basis that, wherever we placed them in Danish society, we will not be able to change that uncertainty? Is that what the Radical Left really wants to do in the end, that is to make that decision and give these families permanent residences in Denmark, even though all of this talk is that we live in a constitutional state, at least sometimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145310	So we're in the quote, right? It's top rhetoric, and I don't quote the rest in this round. Nor will the rapporteur be able to demonstrate that fewer people came out during the period when some other rules were in force. What the rapporteur will be able to find is that there were no 103 reports of child distrust during the period when they could live outside Soulsmark, which proves that you can have children who thrive better yet, and I think that is exactly what a legal society is characterised by.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145344	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145347	I have yet to get an explanation as to why it is believed that people who did not participate in their repatriation would not go home when they were living outside the centre, would suddenly have to think differently, if we then moved them outside the centre again. What kind of logic is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145412	I didn't sign up to that logic either. We may disagree on this in the Radical and Alternative. I don't know. I don't think anything's gonna change. Well, that's what history shows this is all about. You don't get any more families to leave by letting them sit and let children miserable in Soulsmark. We did not get fewer people to leave by allowing them to stay outside the centres until repatriation agreements were established. No one has been able to provide evidence of this, and the widespread distrust of these children is what determines it for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145450	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145453	Of course, more people go home, of course fewer people come here if they know that they have no right to protection in Denmark and therefore they are not allowed to stay here and that what they have the prospect of is living in an exit centre which is meant as a temporary measure. So this is on the left side to say: it should not have any consequences if people do not follow the instructions of the authorities. That's what it is. We're not doing anything wrong. It is the people who are not following the instructions of the authorities who are doing something wrong. Of course it is. Well, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145536	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145540	These are children you take hostage, and I think that is definitely wrong. Taking children hostage is simply not in line with the way we should operate as a community governed by the law, and I have not been able to see the rapporteur or anyone else prove that being able to stay without a residence permit would be such an attraction mechanism. What we need to be able to do is to be able to get people who are not legally resident in Denmark out more quickly. It's a deal. This requires a very massive effort to get agreements in place. We support this in the Radical Left, but this is about the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145621	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145633	The last statement made by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is, of course, at the heart of this. This is about kids. There is a long discussion about the parents taking the children hostage and whether it would help get them to go out if we do it and if we do this. There are many different discussions about this. With regard to the debate that has been going on about whether it will cause more people to leave if you get away from the exit centres, the point is that it does not do so from time to time. That is the whole point of this, because it is not documented that, because you are in an exit centre, there are more people travelling abroad, and there is no proof of that either. What this is about is that some children are in a situation that is completely unacceptable. That is what I think we should try to agree on and focus on. It is, of course, difficult; I agree that there are some who say it is, but that is why you can try to absorb from those things that have been up in the debate and say that there are some children who are miserable, who have a poor upbringing, and that you can change it through some very, very simple means. We have discussed in the past that just the fact that they can be allowed to cook their own food at the exit centres will make a big difference and also that they can be allowed to stay outside the centres after a period of time will make a difference. But that does not mean that they should not be sent home, that they are safer at all. That only means that these people are in a difficult situation, and then you can discuss whether they are responsible for it themselves or not, but that is not what we are talking about here. We are talking about whether the children should suffer because of this and whether we nevertheless have a responsibility for them to have a reasonable upbringing. I do not think that we can be so petty in our country that we will reject that possibility. That is quite, quite a bit of a matter here, and it is a system that we have had in the past that we want to see reinstated. I really do not understand why it is not possible to absorb the fact that this is about the children, rather than having a big debate about who is to blame for it. Many people may be to blame for this, and I fully agree with that, and it is not the case that you have to say that what those parents do is right. We are not saying that it is, but that is why you can take responsibility for the children who will be the innocent victims of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145944	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228145947	I am not quite sure what SF's position is on the following, but most people think that it would be good if protection could be provided in the neighbourhoods, that this is the optimal situation, and I actually think SF believes that too. Some of these people have been protected in the vicinity, and from where they have been protected they have gone to Europe and Denmark, and then they will not leave. If you think that the best situation is for people to have protection in the neighbourhood, and you then say that if they choose to go from there to Europe, then they should just be allowed to stay here, then you don't mean what you say. In other words, if people's choices have no consequences, all the talk that the best thing is for people to have protection in the neighbourhood is irrelevant, because then people can just go from there and move on to, for example. Denmark, and then we don't even send people out anyway, because if people don't want to travel voluntarily, they just get to live here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150056	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150058	I have to admit, I don't understand that Joachim B. Olsenian logic. I have to admit that. He has had many speeches today and I think they are becoming increasingly strange to listen to. To provide protection in the neighbourhood is, of course, about the fact that when there is an area where there is some conflict and there are people who want to flee because their children and their families are killed, you can provide protection close to where they live. It is, of course, a very good thing if it can be done if we can deal with the situation of refugees in this way. But I don't know. Joachim B. Olsen has not been in this situation either. Nobody knows about that. And there's a reason why they won't go back there are different reasons for it. For many, it is not the case that they return to safety. There can be many reasons for this. But again I would say that this is not what this debate is about; it must be about whether, nevertheless, during the period they are here, we should give those children reasonable opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150214	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150215	I'm not the one who's weird here. That is the logic of the SF, which is not connected at all. There are examples of this. This is, for example, the case. On Iranian Kurds who have received UN protection in Northern Iraq it is completely sanctioned by the UN and from there they have gone to Europe. They've been given protection in the neighborhood. And then SF says that once they've come up here, even if they've been given protection somewhere else first, they should just be allowed to stay here. Then it is empty talk when you talk about the best thing would be for them to have protection in the vicinity when, if they leave from where they have been protected, they are just allowed to stay here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150257	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150258	I am not quite sure that this is a perfectly correct description, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen will be there. What I just want to say is that, although it was now a correct description, it is all about the children who are here in Denmark being properly treated. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150315	Then it's mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150317	I really want to know why SF was involved in creating Soulsmark, if you don't think it's useful to send people to Soulsmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150327	After all, it was supposed to be a temporary exit centre. And therefore there was also limitation on how long one could be on Soulsmark. In this situation, it may be sensible to have a place where people are placed just before they leave. We've never been against people leaving. That's not what this is about. But the problem is that they are there for a very, very long time. That is the problem and will have consequences for the children. Also because you have arranged it in the way you have done, for example. in relation to the question of whether they are allowed to cook their own food. This totally banal thing that we've asked about several times, you don't want to be part of it because they can't get it too well. They must not be allowed to experience being a family. I think that is a strange thought to see from bourgeois parties that pay tribute to the core families. But you can't be allowed to do that up there because you want them to feel as bad as possible. It is just to say that it has developed in a way where we can no longer accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150436	Then it's mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150438	I understand the answer like that... otherwise, sir. Holger K. Nielsen corrects me that it is actually believed that it is useful to send people there. But if they do not comply with the principle behind the exit centre, then the rules can be changed. Does this also apply elsewhere? Let us say that there is a family that does not want to pay their residual tax, because it would put children at a disadvantage if that residual tax were paid. Could you change the rules there so they wouldn't have to do it because it would hurt the kids? Is this a principle of law which, according to the Socialist People's Party, can be applied elsewhere than just in Soulsmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150519	Excuse me, but I think it's an unspeakable comparison to make. After all, none of the families owe anything in the residual tax that is not allowed to live a family life. It is not the case that society comes and says to the families: you cannot be allowed to eat food together. So that comparison is completely out in the hemp, to put it plainly, and frivolous. This is about some kids being placed in an exit center. Then one can discuss why and how and how, but that the children are miserable, is something that has been documented in many different places. And that's where we say, can't we do a little better?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150603	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150612	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that children should have a good start in life. We want to focus more on the importance of ensuring children a good childhood and a safe life. That is why, like the authors of the motion, we believe that children should spend as little time as possible on an exit and asylum centre. As a father, it is obviously difficult to hear about children who must grow up in an institution and not have a normal upbringing. I don't like it. The fact is, however, that in very many cases children do not need to spend so much time in asylum and exit centres. One of the main reasons why these cases are dragging on is the lack of parental cooperation. And the question is whether we should be able to expect asylum. The Danish state stands ready with help and support for all who are ready to cooperate on repatriation. Despite this, we still have parents who are ready to let their children grow up in an exit centre rather than receiving help and coming home. The child's best interests must and must come first. Specifically, this means that the child is best served by coming home to his home country in a good and proper way. The children in these cases fall victim to the stubbornness of their parents. Rejected asylum seekers should not be rewarded for being a nuisance to the authorities. Adult people who oppose asylum rules are rewarded just because they have had children. It shouldn't be like that. It is extremely important to recall again that it is therefore people who have been refused after refusal and are not allowed to be here. And it is the authorities who have turned all the stones in their cases and rejected them. Some of them return after they have been refused, without being stubborn. It is important that we ensure that all children have a good start in life, but we should not reward anyone for being stubborn and for taking children hostage at the same time. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150827	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150830	Thank you. I just want to know if the Conservative rapporteur agrees with the Conservative Mayor of Hørsholm, Morten Slotved, who said to Berlingske on 16 January 2019: "If you had an institution in Hørsholm, which the municipality stood for, where we had 51 notifications out of 118, I would not be able to live with it. Then there's something wrong with the way you run an institution. If it had been any other institution in Hørsholm Municipality, I would have closed it, he says. Is Mr. Does Khader agree with the Conservative Mayor of Hørsholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150914	After all, there are several of us who have also noticed what the Ombudsman has also written about the children and their condition. Some people even said that these children should be forcibly removed, and that has also happened to some of them. It doesn't solve the case of closing the exit center. The departure center is there for you to be ready to go home when you sign that you want to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150943	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228150944	The mayor's point is that if you had had such an institution in Hørsholm, it would have been closed because it was misguided. You cannot blame those who are in an institution because the institution is being misplaced. It is the starting point for the institution that there are people who are criminals and that there are people who do not want to follow the authorities' instructions, or there are people who are psychotic or anything. That is the starting point for the institution. Then it is that the mayor says: if we had an institution with so many problems in Hørsholm, then we would close it, because then it is run wrong. That is why I ask: is Mr. Naser Khader agrees with that, or is Mr. Kader. Does Khader disagree with the Conservative Mayor of Hørsholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228151028	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228151029	I don't know what the mayor means by driving wrong. However, I and we in the Conservative Parliamentary Group agree that there should be exit centres. From now on it will be so that Soulsmark becomes for the families, Kærshovedgård becomes too single, and Lindholm becomes for the criminals, and so it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228151051	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228151058	Thank you. In answering the question, the Minister was very concerned about the question of the children as the responsibility of the parents, and I must admit that I had a déjà vu like this exactly 21 years ago in this Chamber, where we discussed the right of rebuke and the right of parents to beat their children, because today it is a Danish core value that you must not beat your children, but it was not 21 years ago. It was, in fact, by a very narrow majority that we had the right to beat up our children, with a few votes, and it was, of course, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party and the Left, who repeatedly thundered at this value slip which was now in progress, by no longer having to beat up their children, and what was the argument was: The children are the parents' responsibility. That is what we are hearing again: the children are the parents' responsibility. So there are just some of us who have to insist, as we did 21 years ago, that if parents put children in a situation where children's conditions are unacceptable, society will have to act. And if parents take their children hostage, the alternative is not for society to take the children hostage, it is for them to act in such a way that the best interests of the child are taken into account. Taking into account the best interests of the child is the starting point for this discussion, that is what we have tried to say with the proposal we have put forward, and then I could actually end there. However, I do not want to do so, because other things have been said that we can relate to. Because I really think it is a very interesting discussion that says: why do people not go home? Yeah, why don't people go home? People don't go home immediately after they get the message about it. Even if they are not at an exit centre, they go to an exit centre, and then they get worse and worse conditions in this regard... they have no right to cook their own food, they can't do much relevant, etc. etc., many are unable to care for their own everyday lives, and one can convince oneself of this by talking to those who have to do with Soulsmark and yet they do not go home. Why not? I am not one of those who say that the solution to that question is simple. I am one of those who say that the method we have chosen, which is to put more and more pressure on people, does not work at least, and when it does not work, we have to ask the question: why do we maintain it if, at the same time, it has extremely negative consequences, and the sanction that does not work has extremely negative consequences in relation to precisely the children we think this discussion should be about? They are children who grow up without being able to cook, not just cook with their mother and father, but do not learn the socialisation that consists of cooking, not learning about their own culture through cooking their own culture etc. etc. We are creating children who are disabled from the outset. I mean, honestly, I just don't think it's wise. That is also why the people who are close to it may be a Social Democratic committee chairman saying that the Aliens Act is too harsh on children, that they have to live under other conditions. They can be in Soulsmark for a number of months and must then be offered something else. And that's why we have a Conservative mayor who says: if this was an institution in Hørsholm, which the municipality stood for, where we had 51 notifications out of 118, then I wouldn't be able to live with it then I wouldn't be able to live with it! I think that is a good starting point for the discussion. Then several people mentioned, among other things. Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: If you just oppose the authorities in Denmark, you can just have a life in Denmark. But that is not what anyone is proposing, in other words, that is not what the proposal is about. The proposal is, of course, that you can stay somewhere else until the expulsion which has been adopted is completed. We do not believe that the question of people returning home is about where they live. I think it's about fear, and that fear may take a long time to overcome. I think it is also about people sacrificing a great deal to get here and having to face up to the fact that it was a misfire and they may have put all their own and perhaps some of their family's savings into borrowing money to get out, money that they now have to return home and pay back. There may be many reasons why it is difficult for people to make that decision, but it is never related to whether they live in an exit centre where they are not allowed to cook with their children or whether they live in fairly orderly conditions. It doesn't add up. It does not add up in the way Mr. Mattias Tesfaye says it does, because the starting point is that people should be sent out of the country. That is also why we could make that agreement in 2014 in relatively broad agreement, including with the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democrats and the parties behind this proposal, where we could of course see that people should have the opportunity to live elsewhere, without having any consequences for the question that they should of course leave the country when the opportunity was available. Then I would say that when this discussion is important, it is because, in my opinion, we have only seen the beginning. So for the fact that now we have Zealand and Kærshovedgård, and then we get Kalvehave and the desert island, and then all the problems are solved, and then the number will certainly not rise: No. The number will rise and rise. And I wonder where the Somalis who have been definitively refused are actually located, at least they are not at the exit centres. They're certainly not in the exit centres. I think there's five of them in the exit centres, but where's the rest? They have been prepared for them up in Soulsmark, but they have not been accommodated. Why haven't they been accommodated? I'm surprised. It has been very eager to conduct matters, but why haven't they been accommodated? Well! Maybe it's because the election just has to be over first before you neighborhood them. When it's over, the Syrians, the temporary residence permits, don't they? So what we want to see is that this problem will grow and grow with adults, as we can say ourselves have a responsibility, because they will not follow the guidelines of the authorities, and with more and more children being put in an increasingly hopeless situation. One can certainly not deal with that now, that is, it is fine, but that problem will come back, and it will come back in a few months or a year or two years, when the problems we are experiencing at the moment in Soulsmark can just be multiplied by five or multiplied by ten. That is why we might as well say that this is not the end of a debate, but just a ripple in the debate that will continue, even during a future government, and that debate must lead to a solution that means that we give priority to children, that we put children at the centre, regardless of the fact that the choice made by their parents is not acceptable and in accordance with what has been imposed by the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228151951	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228151955	I would like to begin by saying that I believe that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, is very right that this is a discussion that has come to stay, and I also believe that Mr. Søren Søndergaard hits very precisely when he points to both the Somalis who have had their residence permit withdrawn and the situation we face after the report that has come up on the security situation in Syria. That is why I fully agree that this is a discussion that has come to stay and I hope that it can become more qualified than what we have seen today. Let me start by saying it like that. The next thing I want to say is that many other countries have a different policy in this area. They just inform people: you have been denied asylum; you have to leave the country within x number of weeks. And then there's no exit center or anything. Then people live underground in a growing subclass growing up in southern Europe and also in some northern European countries or at least central European countries. I'm sure we can't be interested in that either. If I have misunderstood the Enhedslisten, I apologize. But I understand that Enhedslisten is in favour of people having a home, a social benefit, access to health care, education for children, and that is what I call a life. But if I've misunderstood something, Enhedslisten must finally correct me now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152108	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152109	So, in relation to the issue of the growing underclass, we do not really know how big it really is in Denmark. Well, we know that there are a lot of people disappearing, and then there are some who think that people only just take a long time when they sit and look into the wall because they do not want to be sent home to Iran, and then they go underground where the first thing they do is without any help at all to go home to Iran. I don't really believe that. So they're probably somewhere else and where is it? Yes, some have gone abroad. Some people think it is brilliant that they have gone abroad, because then that is not our problem. I think that is perhaps a very nationalistic idea and a strange attitude towards our other European neighbouring countries, but there you can have different views on how to look at European cooperation and solidarity and something like that. But there is probably also a lot that is in Denmark, and that is probably a pretty big problem. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye may well define it as a life; I define as an absolutely crucial element in a life that you know that what you are building up you can keep. And we cannot do that in the situation where we can be deported from day to day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152220	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152222	Well, I would like to start by saying that it was, after all, possible for rejected asylum seekers to have a special residence in 2009. Some of those who got the special residence then live in it still away. I think that if you ask them, they will say that they regard it as a life in Denmark on lifelong public support. I do not think this has been a sensible policy. Then it is true that there are some rejected asylum seekers we do not know where is. The majority of those who have been to Kærshovedgård and are not still there, we have no idea where is. I totally agree with that. I follow very closely the reports on social dumping to find out if the police and the National Immigration Agency have found more people without legal residence on the Danish labour market. I can't see that. So I think it is true that they have gone to, among others. Germany, where we can understand in the media that you can stay in a church for six months, and after that time you can apparently get a residence permit. First Vice-President Thank you. We shall then have an answer from the rapporteur). Isn't that what you're proposing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152312	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152313	I think sir... Mattias Tesfaye is absolutely right that there are people who were allowed to live outside the centres, who are still away not deployed, but it had not changed by being at a center. Well, that's what's kind of a gack job. Well, okay, they're outside the center and they haven't been able to be deployed. Had they been to a center, would they have been able to be sent out? No, the problem would have been exactly the same. And Mr. Mattias Tesfaye has lurked into a strange, medieval view, which I also think marks some of the bourgeois, that is, if we treat people sufficiently hard, then it will be all right. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152355	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152409	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228152427	The Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative have tabled a motion for a resolution on a Danish ban model which requires the authorities to refuse exports of arms and military equipment if exports are made to countries characterised by serious human rights violations. With the proposal, the proposers want to tighten up so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where Denmark can deliver weapons to regimes known for committing human rights abuses, as the proposal says. I would like to begin by reassure the proposers that the government is of course entirely in agreement with it, it is important that Danish exports of arms and military equipment are not abused by oppressive regimes to commit human rights violations. However, the government does not consider it appropriate or necessary to have a black and white ban model as proposed here. Overall, this is because Denmark already has an effective export control system and a restrictive approach to the application of the EU's common rules on arms exports. Specifically, the government is opposed to the proposal for three reasons. Firstly, the government can be entirely in line with the fact that in Denmark we already have a restrictive and effective administration in the field of export controls based on the EU's common rules on arms exports. The export control system that exists today is designed precisely to prevent the export of military equipment which can be used for internal repression, international aggression or contribute to regional instability in violation of international conventions. In short, the system is designed to ensure that the rules on exports of arms and military equipment are the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, while the specific applications for export licences are dealt with by the National Police with redress to the Ministry of Justice. In cases of exports to countries which are not members of the EU or NATO, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs hears whether there are issues that speak against the exports applied for. This also applies in the case of exports via an EU or NATO country to a specific known end-user outside the EU/NATO. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs makes its assessment of the specific application on the basis of the criteria set out in the EU's common rules on arms exports. In any case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs makes an overall assessment of the specific risk by carrying out the given product to the given destination. Among other things, this includes: an assessment of the human rights situation and an assessment of whether there is a clear risk of products being used for, for example, internal repression or serious violations of international humanitarian law. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not opposed to the export, authorization will be granted by the National Police, provided, of course, that the other conditions for obtaining authorisation for the export concerned are fulfilled. On the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimates that there are issues that speak against specific exports, such as: there is a clear risk that exports will contribute to internal repression or serious violations of international humanitarian law, then the National Police will follow that recommendation and refuse export. The system we have today is thus designed to prevent precisely those situations which the proposers are concerned with avoiding. One might of course think that it was better, to be on the safe side, to put an end to Danish exports of arms and military equipment in general. The government just doesn't think it is, and that brings me to base number two. Secondly, the government attaches great importance to Denmark being able to maintain a defence industry with competences and capabilities in areas of strategic importance for the defence of Denmark's essential security interests. In this context, it is important that Danish companies can continue to be subcontractors to the companies which, among other things, are: produces the defence equipment that the Danish defence and our allies also use. The government is therefore concerned that the common EU framework for Member States' export controls ensures a level playing field between Danish and foreign companies and that export companies are not tempted to move production out of Denmark to other EU countries with less restrictive rules. It cannot be the intention that Danish companies with a ban model such as the one proposed here should be placed at a disadvantage compared with similar companies established in other EU countries. Thirdly, having said that, I would also like to point out that the current decisions by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to stop altogether the export of arms and military equipment to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates show that the government is willing to be at the forefront when there is a special need for security policy to draw a clear line towards certain countries, even if the agreement at present is not fully present at EU level. I now hear the authors of the motion for a resolution sign for that in their submission. It is no secret that the government has been very open to the other Member States about the suspension of exports of arms and military equipment to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, among others. to encourage other Member States to follow Denmark's example. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Is there a need to tighten up, as the proposal says? No, the government doesn't think there is. We already have a robust and effective export control system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153003	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153006	Thank you. I have to say that I actually sincerely believe that there are still some gaps in that control system, and that is precisely why we want this tightening up. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice how the Minister sees, for example. the human rights situation in Egypt. Is the human rights situation in Egypt just superduper okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153034	This resolution is so wonderful that two ministries have had to fight hard about who could get it down here today. Because, as I said, I have the export issues themselves, and it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that then assesses which countries we can export to. We could certainly talk about Egypt at a very long time, but I have to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153101	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153102	I'd like to help the Minister of Justice a little on the way. It is the case that both Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the UN Human Rights Council say that the human rights situation in Egypt is absolutely horrible: that is, it is the killing of demonstrators, it is repression, imprisonment, all sorts of filthy cases. Yet we have a situation, and this has been the case for many years now, when Denmark exports arms to Egypt, and the Ministry of Justice has approved these applications on a regular basis over the last few years. I think that shows very clearly that things are not as they should be, and that is exactly what I would very much like the Minister to take a look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153142	It is, of course, as I thought I got through well in my speech that there is the handling of matters in the Ministry of Justice, and that is when you hear the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about different countries. If you have certain countries that you do not think should be exported to and where you think there are gaps in the rules we have, yes, then you have to ask the Foreign Minister specifically about that country. I'm not gonna get involved from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153216	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153218	I just need to understand things. After all, we commend the government for following suit with a number of other countries not the whole of the EU, but some countries that would suspend exports to Saudi Arabia. Then I just need to understand the one hundred percent question: why is it that we do not believe that it is, as when some countries started to move on the Saudi Arabia issue, namely that it actually helped to move more countries, including Denmark? Could it not have the same effect if Denmark went ahead and said that, of course, we should not export weapons to countries where there are serious violations of human rights? Could it not be exactly the same thing that happened there, like what happened with Saudi Arabia, where we moved with other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153306	I understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have been very clear and hastened, among other things. in relation to Saudi Arabia, also to bring with it other EU countries. What I am looking for, as in general, is what I can say, should take care of when we have the export control system, is: what is wrong with our current system? What are we supposed to be doing? And if that means that we are putting our industry at a disadvantage compared with other countries in the European Union, is that appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153347	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153350	One might also ask whether it is appropriate for us not to push for human rights to be at the top, for us to protect human rights, among other things. through this and that we will get the rest of the EU countries with us by clearly going out and saying that, of course, we should not export weapons to these countries. It is precisely in order to put human rights first and so that all companies compete up and not down.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153416	I guess that's why we have these discussions at EU level. As I understand this motion for a resolution, the question is whether Denmark should go on its own, take the lead and say that we are adopting something which is tougher and on top of an already tough export control system. The government doesn't think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153435	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153437	It is therefore not in the proposal that we should very much agree with the proposers that it is an advantage if more countries are involved and if the European Union can pull itself together here. If you can work for it within the European Union, it will be quite, quite excellent and also the best. That's not what this is about. But I understand that the Minister is very concerned about Danish exports of arms and defence equipment. It is clear that it is always a matter of reflection and of balance that one has, i.e. whether one has to live up to the principles that are otherwise very much concerned with one's foreign policy, or whether one has to take more account of industry and exports. That is the case in Sweden, because Sweden is a very large arms-producing country, but Denmark is not. It is not the case that the Danish economy collapses if there is some export order from Egypt, for example, or anywhere else that we do not get. That is not the case, and that is why I think we can be a little more brave when it comes to upholding the humanitarian principles of Danish foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153549	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153550	Thank you. I guess it's not the case that it doesn't matter, either with the export earnings or the jobs that are in this. I understand, then, that it is not about going alone, but about going ahead and then hoping that at some point some people will come with us. But then there has to be the fact that today we think we have an export control system that is not tight enough, and there is the attitude of the government that we actually think it is, and that we take many into account. For me and for the government, jobs mean something too. I have no great interest in sending jobs elsewhere. Actually, I think it's important. After all, we can all make many speeches about how important it is that people have jobs and there are jobs etc., but if we then make policies in here that mean that jobs are moving away, I do not think that is appropriate. That is, of course, said in a context where we take this very seriously and where we have a tight system today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153649	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153650	The example mentioned earlier with Egypt is, after all, a very good example of the fact that the system is not tight enough and that it is the case that exports are being made to countries that violate human rights. Somewhere I think that the government takes too lightly the whole issue of the fact that in Denmark, on the surface, we have a policy in which we pay tribute to human rights, we pay tribute to democracy, but at the end of the day we do not really want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153732	I don't think you can deduce that from this case. Now it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which has the authority to deal with the specific foreign and security policy assessments in relation to Danish export control. A decision has then been taken to suspend arms exports to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. It was, of course, an extraordinary decision, which, among other things, was: was taken in the light of the situation in Yemen and the Khashoggi case. Having said that, I would like to maintain that we are pursuing a restrictive policy on arms exports based on a specific and critical assessment in individual cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153807	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. We move on to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153814	I have to say that we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal either. We believe that Denmark already has a restrictive and effective administration in this area, which is based on the EU's common rules, which apply to all Member States. It prevents the export of weapons that can be used in violation of international conventions, attacks on neighbouring countries and instability in the region of that country. We therefore support the current regime, in which it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that makes an assessment on a case-by-case basis, if it is outside the EU area, and that is why we have also welcomed the way in which arms trade has been suspended for example. United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Nor do we want to undermine the cooperation that exists in the EU area, so Denmark must go on its own in relation to our partners among the other European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153911	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228153912	Well, I can tell the rapporteur that this is not at all about undermining cooperation, on the contrary. It is about implementing both the EU's guidelines and the UN guidelines, which we have even signed ourselves, so they seem right. Because the situation is that, for example, it is that with... Egypt and Saudi Arabia were far too late. There had been many years of human rights violations in those countries before Denmark introduced that ban. It would have been a good thing if it had been in the past, and the situation is also now that in, for example, in the United Kingdom, there was a risk of a loss of income. Egypt, to which Denmark exports arms, is massive human rights violations. I am very open to seeing how we can formulate this in a different way if it can bring social democracy. But, frankly, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not the case that, for example, there is no such thing as this. The situation in Egypt should be urged to think: what is going on when Denmark can export arms to that country anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154004	I very much agree with Mrs Eva Flyvholm that the situation in Egypt is unacceptable, and it was during Mubarak, Mursi and Al-Sisi. It's nothing new. Now is perhaps the worst time, but we can, of course, have an independent talk about what is going on in Egypt and what the weapons in question are being used for. We can always have a debate about this situation. I do not think that anyone thinks that what is going on in Egypt is particularly fortunate, but that does not change the fact that it is probably not successful that Denmark should go alone in this. The best thing is to decide at international level what we are doing, so that there are also countries that export much more and more serious weapons than we do that need to think about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154039	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154040	I am very open to discussing this with other countries. The Netherlands, for example, has. also had suspended Egypt. So I actually think it makes sense to look at this, but the basic thing for us is that we tighten up the legislation so that we do not just give these export permits. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party will at least be open to watching that we can then produce a report text or something else that is moving closer because there are plenty of opportunities to do so within the framework of both the European Union's and the UN's guidelines that we have already adopted. The problem is that not enough is happening now, and I honestly do not think that the Social Democrats should be able to live with that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154113	We are always open to looking at different things. Now Enhedslisten mentions Egypt in particular. We just welcome the fact that it has actually had some consequences, in this case for Saudi Arabia, which has probably done worse than what is happening in Egypt. So let us finally focus on human rights violations in general in Egypt. We just want it to take place under the auspices of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154132	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154136	I am just a little curious because I hear the rapporteur, as if the rapporteur were actually saying: yes, of course we must act on this when there are such serious human rights violations as we see around us. However, if we are to bring the European Union, how does the rapporteur think we should do so? I mean, how are we gonna deal with this? This is a proposal to actually take action that can make more people move along, just as we saw with the Saudi Arabia resolution. First there was one country, then there were several countries. Will this be a way in which we actually say that we take human rights seriously and the guidelines we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154208	I understand Enhedslisten as a party that would like to have less EU cooperation and fewer rules in that area. That may be the difference between the alternative, but let us at last focus on Egypt, if it is the only country that is the problem here, as I understand it. However, we are confident that it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that is assessing this matter, also what the weapons in question are being used for, and there are already some rules on what cannot be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154228	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154230	So do I understand that the rapporteur does not believe that there is any need for further than what we are doing today? Is that what I should understand the rapporteur is saying? Because what I am really trying to find out is whether the Social Democrats agree that we need to tighten up the guidelines on arms sales to countries that are so seriously violating human rights or whether everything is just very good today, so that the rules are in place and that we should do nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154256	There are already some rules. There are some good rules, so that if you use these weapons to attack some neighbouring countries, for internal repression, for various forms contrary to international conventions, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can stop it, and then they assess it on a case-by-case basis, and we trust they will do so in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154314	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154320	Thank you. The proposal here will ban the sale and export of arms, arms and war materials to countries which seriously violate human rights. We agree entirely with the ambition that Denmark should not make money killing civilian populations, but the proposal, as we see it, has two challenges: on the one hand, there is the wording for serious violations of human rights, because what should be defined as a serious violation of human rights? On the one hand, who will decide when human rights have been violated? There are, of course, organisations which believe that Denmark and Israel are the greatest sinners in the field of human rights, and we may well have a long discussion about Israel, but I would argue that countries such as China, Saudi Arabia, Iran are considerably worse in this respect, but they often escape criticism from these organisations. So it gives a little rubber band already there. Then there is the part about war materials, for what are war materials? When I was a soldier, I was equipped with both a sandbag, a shovel and a sleeping bag as part of my military equipment, and these are perhaps exactly the sort of things you would like to sell to countries that may be challenged by humanitarian disasters, but I really do not think that, from the outset, you should just refrain from selling it to these people. So the question is whether the proposal here solves the challenge of selling to countries that are not supposed to receive weapons. After all, the Minister said that there are rules governing this and the specific applications are being considered. Then, of course, we can have a discussion about whether it is the right decisions that will be taken when these applications are decided. The proposal here will not necessarily solve that, because there will still be the rubber band in what we define as war material and when a human rights violation has been committed and when it is serious enough. So far as the contents are concerned. Then I have to point out at the end of my speech that I think it is a little strange that this proposal should be dealt with in the Defence Committee. The President-in-Office of the Council is not the Minister for Defence, and one can hear his speech that the other minister who was at stake was the Foreign Minister, since it is not a matter of defence policy. It would be a matter of defence policy if it were about defence equipment, that is, that it was not what we should sell, but this has a broader purpose. That is why I would just like to call for proposals in this Chamber to be referred to the right committees in the future so that we do not have to be replaced in all sorts of other places in order to be able to follow the legislative proposals that are in relation to one's rapporteurship. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party does not think that this proposal solves the challenge of the export permits that may slip through the needle eye that is today, where they should not have got through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154703	Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154706	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for actually recognising that there may be a problem here and that there are things that need to be looked at. In relation to some of the specific questions that are raised, I would like to say, to take it easy first, that sleeping bags and shovels fall outside the category "That's not what we are going for here. I don't think that triggers so many problems. It'll be something bigger, like, for example. tanks and stuff. Secondly, on how to define serious human rights violations, I would like to say that what we have taken as a starting point and which we have also talked about with human rights organisations is that when an application is being examined from a country and if there are really big reports and hard evidence from some of the major recognised UN organisations and human rights organisations such as the United Nations. The UN Human Rights Council, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, the alarm bells should ring. Then that is where you have to say, as a starting point, that you cannot give it permission. This is how we imagine the interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154815	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154816	Now maybe it was also a caricature with shovels and sandbags, but the truth is there's a wide range of aspects in this. For example: have defended many trucks that we use for war purposes, but a truck can also be used to transport emergency aid, and should we not sell trucks to countries because they are on a list with the UN? The challenge is again a bit of the problem of the fact that, although the UN should be an organisation in which we had confidence, the United Nations also has the weakness that some of these decisions have a political aspect, which means, for example, that the United Nations has a political dimension. a country such as China continues to avoid the justified criticism and sanctions that should be against a dictatorship such as China, and that is why China will perhaps be able to escape through the needle's eye with a proposal like this. What I see as the challenge is that this proposal does not necessarily solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154927	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228154928	In any case, I would like to invite the rapporteur to join us in discussing how we can make this even more clear. Moreover, I would like to invite all the parties to do so, because I really believe that this is something that concerns us all. But I would also like to know whether the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party believes that there is a need to look at closing some of those gaps. When, for example, A country such as Egypt can obtain export permits when so many years passed before arms exports to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates were closed, is there not something that could be worth looking at here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155003	I certainly think there is something that could be worth looking at so that you go closer and in relation to individual products and individual countries look at what the purpose is, where these products end up and what they can be used for when they end up in the recipient country. And if there are any holes today, I think we can look at closing those holes. I just think that the problem is that it is going to be really difficult, but that doesn't mean that you shouldn't try.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155033	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155046	Thank you for that, President. The Left cannot support the proposal, but I share the ambition that it is important that Danish exports of arms and military equipment are not abused by oppressive regimes to commit violations of human rights. We have had the debate before, which is why I would like to repeat myself. Denmark already has a restrictive and effective administration in the field of export controls. It is based on the EU's common rules on arms exports, i.e. the rules that the Minister has outlined in the past. Then I agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that it is rather odd that this proposal should be put in the Defence Committee, because I am also looking down on the Minister, and that is the Minister for Justice. Perhaps it should also have been raised here in a dialogue with the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Foreign Minister and not the Defence Committee. Finally, I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they agree with the Left in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155143	I may say, for the sake of clarification, that this is something that the Parliamentary Secretariat does at the request of those who tabled the motion for a resolution, but I understand the discussion and I will accept it. However, there is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155203	I have to say that this area affects both defence, foreign and justice. That's the way it is every time we discuss these things... that it goes a little back and forth. So it is then a question of where you think it can be best. However, I am sure that the rapporteur is able to respond to what I would like to ask: does the Left believe that the human rights situation in Egypt is such that it is justifiable to send Danish weapons to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155238	That is why it could have been exciting that the rapporteur had taken the discussion with the Foreign Minister, who is in charge of assessing the situation in Egypt. I'm not going to judge the situation in Egypt. I do not have the knowledge to do so. However, it might have been wise to start with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in that this with the strategy laid down for export permits starts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then it goes to the Ministry of Justice afterwards to obtain the final authorisation. So if the rapporteur wants that information, perhaps we should have started there. Then perhaps it could also be very exciting for us all to be enriched, to hear: what kind of weapons the rapporteur thinks have been sold from Denmark to Egypt?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155317	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155318	In relation to Egypt, it is among other things. various weapons parts from Terma, the Danish arms manufacturer. I don't know the exact weapons either. I only have an inventory from the Ministry of Justice where we can see that over the last four years it is about 175 million. kr. exported for. But we don't know exactly what it is either. It would also be very good if we could gain insight into it. I would also like to say that when we come up with a serious proposal for discussion in the Folketing, I would expect the rapporteur to also check it out with others in the Left who would then be better in the details. I think we have a problem here. The Foreign Minister was also very welcome to attend. However, I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this further in the debate. If there are any doubts, we would very much like to try to continue working on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155405	Thank you. I'm always ready for dialogue. Terma produces many things other than weapons parts. At least they are not firearms, they are not tanks, as has been shown in the past. Terma might be able to produce radar parts. Perhaps they could also be used for civilian purposes. So I think we should perhaps go a little on list feet to say that this is arms production and arms sales.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155430	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. And then it's sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155439	Thank you. In our view, the overall problem of bans is that reality is often more nuanced than that, and therefore that bans often hit broad and very general levels, just like standards in reality. In addition, national bans often have the disadvantage of weakening the competitiveness of companies in an international market with very wide division of labour. This is also the case with a general ban on the sale of war materials to certain countries. That is why we have also set up a very effective export control system which operates under common European rules. The way in which the control system is designed takes, for example: whether there is a specific risk in the individual situation, in relation to whether the material is exported and may be used for war crimes or for the suppression of human rights. We think this is a good way to do it. We think it works effectively and far more appropriate than what the proposers are proposing, among other things. because the rules are the same in the EU • as the minister has also mentioned and that Danish companies are therefore not put at a disadvantage than their European colleagues. Of course, Danish companies should not contribute to human rights violations. It goes without saying, but we must also bear in mind that there are many people in Denmark who are involved in the production of various types of war material, i.e. sub-contracts or dipedutes, which can go both for civil purposes and for military purposes, which the Left mentioned before. And we shouldn't smash that business by taking out the big hammer and imposing general bans, especially when we already have an effective system to prevent this kind of trade. That is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155649	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155650	I would just like to make it clear that, in relation to the EU's rules, there is also the possibility, as in the case of whole countries, of taking action if it is seen that there are human rights violations that are so serious that you do not want to export to those countries. It is, for example. What is also the basis for our being able to impose an export ban on Saudi Arabia. That is the basis on which we can do it in the presence of the Emirates. What we are appealing to here is simply that we are using this legislation a little wider so that we do not have to face another time in a situation where it takes so many years before this is recognised and so that we can take action against some of the countries where we can see there are gaps. It's completely within the dial to do it. When you hear that talk about export interests, I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that Danish arms manufacturers should be allowed to export to countries where these weapons can be used for human rights violations, for example. go to security forces that suppress, prison and shoot protestors.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155755	No, I certainly don't think so. And if you disagree with the professional judgement that is being made in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on these issues, then I think it is a much better idea that you, for example, should be able to do so. Asks some questions about what these assessments are based on, rather than making a standard and hitting with the big hammer, as I said before. You can always disagree with some assessments, that is fair enough, but then we have tools for it. You can pull the minister in consultation, you can ask questions, etc., if you disagree. And I think that might be wiser and then keep the more individualized form of reprisals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155831	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155832	There are also countries other than Egypt, and that is why we make it a general issue here; consultation, etc. I'm sure it's gonna be relevant too. In fact, it is not very long ago that all parties in the Folketing agreed to tighten the rules for exporting what is called dual-use technologies, i.e. monitoring equipment. Then it was okay to go in to make a more broad, what to say, tightening the rules. I thought that was very sensible; I was super happy that we did. But I am actually a little wondering what is different here, since the Liberal Alliance will not be helping to simply tighten up the export of outright weapons. It should be right to the right, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155912	There was, of course, a situation in which there was a specific task to be solved, and then the funds were used within the framework that exists, and I think that was quite reasonable. And you will always be able to do that if you think that it is so problematic in terms of professionalism that you have to say stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155929	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228155937	Thank you. The question of human rights is more important than ever because human rights are under pressure; unfortunately, we see that very, very many places in the world. After all, human rights exist for all of us. They're not for countries, they're not for companies. No, they're there to protect us, everyone who lives on this land. That is why it is also absolutely crucial that we, as countries that want to fight for human rights, stand up for them; we have campaigned for a long time to get a seat in the Council of the United Nations and use it actively by saying, of course, that there are consequences in doing so and that, among other things, we should not, of course, allow exports of weapons and parts of weapons, etc. to countries that seriously violate human rights. One might ask whether one can just do it in cases from time to time and just take a stand on small things. You can, but human rights and the fight for human rights are also about sending out clear and clear signals into the world. That is what is also needed. If we go in with this and say that we want to make this general ban, it is a very clear political signal around the world that we stand up for human rights. And the clear signals are needed right now. It is needed because we see the violations around the world that we see and, unfortunately, we also see countries that do not care about the criticism that they can then get from time to time. That's why we have to take the lead here, get more. We saw what happened when some countries began to say that they would suspend exports to Saudi Arabia then more came down. That is the same thing we have to do here: make sure that the ball roll and say that we believe in human rights, and that has consequences. Yeah, that means there are some countries we can't sell weapons to. Actually, I don't think that's so bad. So, although it has not exactly been positive so far, I also very much hope that through the work of the committee we will be able to discuss in depth what we did with dual use, for which there was no immediate majority, but where we made a good decision together in here. I also hope that in the committee work we can get that about this, because it is really, really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228160205	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228160224	Behind this resolution is a development which is very worrying, namely that the world's arms sales have increased very, very strongly in recent years. Since 2002, the world's total arms sales have increased by approx. 44 per cent according to the latest SIPRI study. It is many trillion dollars that are spent on the purchase and sale of weapons around the world, weapons used in conflicts, in wars, used by dictators to suppress the peoples, and weapons that are the cause or at least the cause of millions of people being killed or injured. So the arms interests there are, the huge sale of weapons, and the imagination to find new death machines that the arms manufacturers have, are part of a very, very boring development around the world. A global ban on the production and sale of weapons would be fine, but it is not realistic; we know that it is not. What it is all about is getting as much control over it as possible, so as to try to prevent the countries exporting arms from exporting to the most anti-human regimes where they can be used for the repression of their own populations and for the repression of people in conflicts close to them. And, of course, there has been much up to date in Saudi Arabia as an example of a country to which arms should not be sold, a regime which is inhuman in every respect, both internally and in relation to its own population, think of the Khashoggia affair, but, above all, in relation to the conflict in Yemen, which is one of the most bloody conflicts currently in existence, one of the most inhuman conflicts at the moment. There I think it is very reasonable to use a weapons boycott as part of a political means of exerting pressure on a country which does not behave properly. It's not uncommon for you to do that. Various European countries have also done this to Saudi Arabia. It was okay for Denmark to follow suit there, and the government must be commended for doing so at the time. If we then put forward this proposal, it is because we would have liked it to be a little more generally a discussion on the export of arms to regimes that violate human rights. That's why this has a slightly wider aim than Saudi Arabia alone. As I said, it was fine to say no to Saudi Arabia, but we would like to have a slightly broader discussion on these things. There has been a little debate about whether we Danish should go alone or whether we should go through the European Union. I would say that it is a huge, huge advantage for us if we can go through the European Union. I should also like to welcome and say from the radical rapporteur, who could not be here, that he will support the proposal and that he attached great importance to working to ensure that EU solutions can be found for it. But there are also many different political interests, if I may say so, geopolitical interests between the EU countries, which have something to do with their historical relations and so on, so it may be difficult to get, if I may say so, the consensus within the European Union that would be beneficial. That is why I think it is good, as we are proposing here in Denmark, that we should be able to take the lead and that we should not necessarily wait for the rest of the European Union. However, like the Radicals, the SF also believes that it is a huge, huge advantage that it happens through the EU that more countries come together, precisely because there is no competitive imbalance in it. It should not be the deciding factor in such things. I do not think so. But that is why I think that this can be included, because it will have a greater effect, the more countries that can be responsible for an arms embargo. So this proposal is a contribution to getting that discussion going. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur suggested that a report on this could be made. I am, in fact, very open to what can be done to provide sensible relations with future work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228160724	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228160736	Denmark must not sell weapons to dictators and torturers and war criminals. That should actually be quite obvious, I think. That is why we were very many, in fact all parties in the Folketing, who warmly welcomed the ban on the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. But I still think that we need to tighten up the rules on Danish arms exports. I think we have to ask ourselves: why was the ban on the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia not in force long before the murder of Jamal Khashoggi? It had long been known at that time that the Saudi king's dictatorship systematically tortured and suppressed its own people. It was also very, very well known what were the horrors that took place in Yemen, i.e. with the bombing of hospitals, school buses, etc. Oxfam IBIS has been able to prove that the Danish arms manufacturer Terma has supplied equipment to these bombers over Yemen. Well, there were plenty of reasons why it should have been put in a long time before this happened. When you look at the situation today, it is precisely the case that Denmark is still exporting weapons to other countries that systematically violate human rights. I think that Egypt is the clearest example of something quite wrong, but there are other examples too. If you look at Egypt, it is the case that both Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International and the UN Human Rights Council have warned in recent years that the human rights situation in Egypt is under severe, severe pressure. It is on many different fronts, but one of the places where the alarm bells must ring the most is where Egyptian security forces, for example. in connection with demonstrations, it has been time to threaten people, arrest people and expose people to violence. Therefore, it makes extremely good sense that weapons should not be exported to that country at the moment. We have, for example. also seen earlier how Holland also imposed a ban on exports to Egypt because of their role in the bombings in Yemen. So I think, contrary to what we heard the Minister of Justice say today, that there is every reason to say: well, there is something that does not work tight enough. This should simply concern us all to such an extent, because, what should we say, our responsibility to human rights is absolutely crucial. In particular, with regard to arms exports, which are quite frankly used to kill people, we should perhaps be extremely aware of what countries and dictatorships are being sold to. There is and I have to say that once Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative have put forward this proposal, it is also because we have seen a situation in the last year when a ban has just been opened on Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, and one thinks: well, that seems reasonable, let us go further down the same road. We have seen that it has finally been possible to tighten up the rules for exporting these dual-use technologies that can be used for monitoring, i.e. surveillance equipment. Then I simply think it would seem strange if we could not even reach the goal of a resolution here which, in fact, is only in line with what we have adopted in the past. I would also like to stress the fact that more people have pointed to the question: should we go alone? In other words, both the UN Arms Trade Treaty and the EU Charter on arms sales provide some of the same guidelines and principles that we are pointing to here and have written in here. The problem is that a great many experts also point to the fact that these guidelines are simply not being implemented tight enough, and that is exactly what we want to achieve, so that we are sure that when we look at, for example, the guidelines are being implemented. A country such as Egypt, in which there are so many reports that it is wrong with human rights, must, of course, also light a large red alarm lamp, and then there should be no export. In simple terms, that is what our proposal is all about. I have to say that, before today, I had hoped that we would be able to bring all parties together in one form or another, in other words that we would be able to agree on something. In any case, there have also been some parties that have expressed their support for the purpose of the proposal, so I still hope that we can go further and look at a report text and that we will also go home and consider it. Because I think it is quite a crucial responsibility that we have to ensure that this arms export does not happen to dictatorships. I think it is time that Denmark took special responsibility for putting human lives above export millions. As I see it, this is a ban on the sale of weapons to countries that violate human rights, in other words, a very good way of ensuring it, and it is also a way of facing ourselves and the world. So it is yet another call to think about it and to agree on something. As I said, we would very much like to discuss any uncertainties and uncertainties that people may have. We are very sympathetic to it. But the crucial thing is that we manage to tighten these rules. We simply have to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161316	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161340	Now it has been announced to me that it is Mrs Rosa Lund who is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, and the proposal is from the Enhedslisten or also Mrs Eva Flyvholm is the representative of the Enhedslisten here and now until Mrs Rosa Lund appears. Yes, Mrs Flyvholm represents the proposers. Now Mrs Rosa Lund showed up, so that means that now the Enhedslisten is represented, and so we have come so far that I can give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161440	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking Enhedslisten for having tabled the motion for a resolution......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... More specifically, the government is required to add the words gender, gender identity and gender expressions to section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, and § 266b. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to ensure better protection of the criminals against hate crimes. The comments on the proposal show, among other things, that hate crimes make it difficult for some to be themselves, and therefore many live with hidden identity for fear of being subjected to hate crimes. Furthermore, it is proposed that crimes motivated by hatred of persons due to their sexuality, skin colour, belief or ethnic or national origin should be punished more severely in Denmark. I fully agree with the authors of the motion that hate crimes are deeply offensive, both to the wrongdoer and to anyone else who wants to live in a world of tolerance and space for everyone. I also agree that hate crimes must be severely punished. However, I would like to stress that it already follows from the case law today that discrimination based on gender identity is covered by the existing provisions of the criminal code on hate crimes and hate phrases. So it is not the case that discrimination against, for example. the criminal code on hate crimes and hateful utterances today. Having said that, I can understand the intention of making it clearer by including it in the wording of the provisions. I also sympathise with the proposal, because basically I believe that everyone should have equal opportunities and freedom, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity. However, I think it is important that we do a thorough job before we resort to legislative changes in this area. At present, an inter-ministerial working group anchored in the Gender Equality Division of the Minister for Fisheries, Gender and Nordic Cooperation is already looking at the relevant legislation, including the Criminal Code. The inter-ministerial working group looks at the entire legislation across ministerial areas, and therefore the working group can assess the measures and possible legislative changes needed to strengthen the fight against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity in the best possible way. That is why I think it is right to wait for the results of the working group, and when the working group has presented the results of its study, we can then discuss how to strengthen the fight against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, in order to ensure equal opportunities and freedom for all. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161733	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, who is now present in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161743	Thanks, and I'm sorry I was late. I should just like to ask: if the Minister, who represents the government's position, agrees with the intentions of the proposal, why can we not vote in favour of the proposal? I hear that a working group has been set up, but if you fully agree with the intentions of the proposal, if you want to help protect transsexuals from abuse and hate crimes, why not just write it in now? Well, I guess one doesn't rule out the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161813	Because we want something more and we want to look all around. Because what Mrs Rosa Lund is asking here is already the case law today. I do not think we should make legislative changes for what is already practice. So I'd rather be a part of looking at the place and it's not really meant to be against, it's meant to look all around: Do we have some areas where we have to do more when we talk hatecrime, and when we talk so many other things? But there is already a case law today. That's where it's part of it, and that's why I don't think it makes much sense in itself to write in these three words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161850	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161853	Well, if it's already case law today, you might as well write it in. At any rate, I have heard from the Minister for Justice on other occasions down here in the Chamber and in the Committee on Legal Affairs when we have discussed it in the legal field that things that are already case law in one area or another should be written into the law. But why not in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161915	I also think that some of this will be looked at later when we are going to look all around, as several ministries are currently doing. I just find it hard to understand that it should make sense for us to put forward a legislative proposal and to do a legislative procedure in order to write in something that is already case law today. So may I not just thank Mrs Rosa Lund for her cooperation for some time, and I look forward to her rejoicing in the Folketing after the elections. I understand it's the last day today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161943	Thank you to the Minister for Justice who made this pious wish. Then I can now give the floor to Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228161955	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten wishes to change the penal code so that terms such as gender, gender identity and gender expressions are added to section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, and § 266 B, par. 2, which is also known as the racism paragraph. The purpose of this amendment is to protect the transgender from hate crimes. The motion for a resolution raises a very central agenda: hate crimes against minorities. There should be no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of all citizens feeling safe, and that is why, of course, we also take a strong stand against hate crimes and hateful statements against people likelgbt+. We live in 2019 and everyone must be able to feel safe and walk on the street or in the night life without risking threats or assaults, just because you are two men holding hands or giving each other a loving hug. Fortunately, we have also come a long way in terms of rights and the protection of our minorities. Let me just mention some of the last improvements that we have helped to make together in the Folketing: the right of homosexuals to adopt on an equal footing with heterosexuals, the right to be married on an equal footing with others, the possibility, as the first country in Europe, of obtaining a legal change of sex by declaring that one is experiencing belonging to another sex, the removal of tranners from WHO diagnostic codes, so that it is no longer part of the diagnostic chapter on mental illness. A great deal has happened and is, fortunately, happening in terms of protecting our minority people with a lgbt+ background. In the Social Democratic Party, we are also pleased that the broad majority from the local community is being listened to for more targeted action in the form of an action plan. This action plan became a reality last year and is also supported by the stake pool parties, with the exception of Enhedslisten, and is intended precisely to promote security and well-being and equal opportunities for people with disabilities. One of the initiatives in the action plan is an inter-ministerial working group. It states that the objective of the group is to coordinate and further strengthen efforts to promote equal opportunities and freedom for individuals, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity, as well as to counteract discrimination and homophobia. This means that the working group must also look at the legislation itself, not least the latest knowledge and experience in the field of discrimination and homophobia, where hate crimes are obviously included. We look forward to the outcome of this inter-ministerial working group, just as we look forward to the thematic meeting on hate crimes scheduled for 27 March, which is intended precisely to make us wiser in this area. That is why we support the good intentions of the motion for a resolution put forward by Enhedslisten against hate crimes, but we cannot support the resolution because we would just like to wait for the working group to make us wiser in this area. With those words, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for highlighting the area and we hope from the Social Democrats that the working group will be able to present its findings in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162306	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162310	Thank you. Well, it's nice that we can agree with the Social Democrats on the intentions behind this proposal. But I find it a little difficult to understand that if you agree with the intentions, then you will not make it a practice. Why not just introduce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162330	As the Minister for Justice also stated in his reply to the same question, it is the case that the case law covers the area, and furthermore it does not do any harm just to wait and see what the working group brings out of results. Hopefully we will be wiser and hopefully the final result will be much better than what is now before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162349	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162353	So let me ask in another way: can a working group change the attitude of the Social Democrats, that transgendered persons should be better protected from hate crimes? That's what puzzles me. I think it is fine with a working group, but I am absolutely firm about the need for better protection in the criminal code, which is why I think it is possible to introduce this right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162419	I do not think anyone in this Chamber thinks there should be rights and that our minorities should be protected, and everyone is against hate crimes or hate utterances. I do not think there can be any doubt that we all agree that this should not happen. The reason why we want to look at how to get a little deeper into this area is that it's also an element of the action plan where this particular working group is going to look at it all around, and hopefully we'll get more knowledge and deeper knowledge that could be useful in the further process. So I think we should try to wait and see. And we certainly do not think that it is right for hate crimes to be committed, either against transsexuals or other minority groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162500	Thank you to Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. Then we proceed in the order of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162509	Thank you. As a society, we must never accept hate crimes, regardless of who they are targeted at. This proposal is about adding gender, gender identity and gender expressions to the penal code in connection with hate crimes, that is to say, a change in the penal code, which adds gender, gender identity and gender expressions. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to ensure better protection of transgenders from hate crimes. According to Article 266b of the criminal code in force. 1, the person who makes statements or other communications publicly or intentionally in a wider circle in which a group of persons is threatened, insulted or demeaned by their race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, belief or sexual orientation shall be punished. We in the Danish People's Party have taken the initiative for a thematic meeting on hate crimes, so the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Legal Affairs are holding a joint thematic meeting on hate crimes in March, and that was before this resolution was even tabled. Hatred crimes are verbal assaults, threats, violence, vandalism, theft or robbery committed against persons who the perpetrators believe belong to a particular group. Hatred crimes are typically committed against groups of other ethnic origin, religion or sexual orientation. Victims are not perceived as individuals with their own personality. Hatred crimes are mostly unprovoked and sudden, and without prior knowledge of each other by the victim and the perpetrator. The crime not only affects the individual but can spread insecurity and insecurity among all who belong to a exposed group. The purpose of the thematic meeting is to focus on hate crimes and to give committee members greater insight into hate crimes and to clarify what the Folketing can do to limit hate crimes and ensure targeted action against hate crimes. And we've asked a number of questions about this theme meeting, among others. what we can learn from other countries, how to get rid of hate crimes, and how to prevent hate crimes as a society, also in relation to what might be done on the part of the Folketing in order to prevent hate crimes. I look forward to that thematic meeting and also to hearing what the speakers have to say. And the theme meeting is open to everyone. In addition, an inter-ministerial working group has also been set up, which was set up in line with the 2018 lgbti action plan, and in which all the gamble parties are part of. I can also see that the Minister has replied to a written question that one has been covered today. So in the Danish People's Party we fully agree that hate crimes are unacceptable, but we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162813	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162818	Thank you. I think it sounds like a really good idea to hold this theme meeting and invite to it, and I am glad to hear that the Danish People's Party is also very interested in this issue. But then there is just something I do not understand, because here there is an opportunity to act, so not just talk about the problem, but actually act on it, so why do you say no to it in the Danish People's Party today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162843	There are several reasons. As several rapporteurs and as the Minister has said, they are covered today. No matter who they are, tranned as well, they should not be subjected to hate crimes. I'm just wondering why Enhedslisten didn't put it out here until January, since Enhedslisten had been out in August and reported that they made a proposal so I thought it was a little late. As far as I can understand, Enhedslisten was out with this in connection with Copenhagen Pride, so that they only put it forward in January, I wonder if Enhedslisten would like this to be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162924	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162927	Should I then understand that the Danish People's Party simply does not support this proposal because of the fact that Enhedslisten has not taken due care, but had it been put forward in August, the Danish People's Party, with all its mandates, had been behind it? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228162943	No, I think the rapporteur misinterprets my answer. I have already answered here on the platform that it is already the case today that no one should be subjected to hate crimes. Transbeauts are also covered in relation to the paragraph; the Minister for Justice has provided this information from the platform. In addition, we are very concerned about the subject of hate crimes and the prevention of hate crimes, and that is also why we have previously collaborated with the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Gender Equality and the sports world in connection with shouts and other things about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163025	With that we thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no more brief comments. And the next one, sir. Martin Geertsen, who was perhaps about to regret it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163039	I just don't want to do anything the President doesn't like. I would like to start by stressing that the Left has a very, very great sympathy for the basic agenda which the Enhedslisten is trying to set and which Mrs Rosa Lund in particular is trying to put here, namely to ensure the best possible protection of the individual from hate crimes. Equal opportunities regardless of gender, gender identity, sexuality, religion, etc. etc. is so basic a premise in our society that it cannot, of course, be graded. No one should live with fear of being discriminated against, harassed or assaulted because of their gender identity, gender expression or, for that matter, sexuality, skin colour, faith, ethnicity or national origin. And that is why, of course, we must also do everything we can to safeguard people's right to live the life they want, without fear of facing hatred and discrimination. This is an important priority for the Left and for the government. Having said that, the Left does not support today's motion for a resolution to introduce the words gender identity and gender expression into the penal code. And we do not do so because, as the Minister of Justice mentioned, we support the work of the inter-ministerial working group and want to await their conclusions on how best to ensure coordinated action in this area as a whole. The working party shall have, inter alia: To assess whether there may be a need for adjustments to existing legislation or even new legislation in this area. At the same time, the working group will ensure the exchange of the latest knowledge and experience from both national and international forums, as well as the coordination of existing and new initiatives between ministries. We support this work, and this requires, among other things, that we may beat a little cold water in our blood and, in the first place, let experts assess what will work best across the board before we change the legislation. So, although I think that the proposal is very sympathetic and that we in the Left also fully support the fact that we must do what we can to ensure that people's free choices are made to live the life they want, we would also like to see things in a context. We therefore support awaiting the overall assessment by the inter-ministerial group of how best to ensure enhanced cross-border coordination and knowledge sharing efforts in this area. And like some debates we had the other day, this is an expression of the position of the Left, but it is also an expression of the position of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163319	Thank you for that, sir. Martin Geertsen. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163324	Thank you. Well, I can see there is a picture that Enhedslisten has made a very sympathetic proposal. And that's really nice. I'm just interested in finding out when, sir. Martin Geertsen's party would like to act on this problem. So that is a possibility right now; we can vote in favour of this proposal. So what is it that is needed for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, to actually act to protect transpersonals better?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163356	Well, I tried a little to suggest this in my speech before, namely that we would like to wait for the inter-ministerial work that has been started. And when it is interdisciplinary, it is because you look at legislation across the board. And I could really ask Mrs Lund the same question: would it not really be smarter to wait? Because if there is going to be a wave of new legislation and changes to existing legislation all the way across this area, would it not be smartest to try to see it here in a context and it is not a question that what Mrs Rosa Lund has proposed here is not essential rather than taking an element out of something that can really turn out to be much bigger and much wider than what Mrs Rosa Lund might possibly even imagine in her wildest imagination?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163447	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163450	Well, maybe I should just ask sir. Martin Geertsen in a different way: what does it take for the Left not to mean that this inter-ministerial group can come up with something where they say: No, this should not be in the penal code, so this is not the way the protection should be? I find this very difficult to imagine in relation to the group that has been set up and to the statements made by the Minister for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163522	Well, we in the Left feel that, in this context too, we reserve the right to be wiser, both in relation to what Mrs Lund has proposed here, but also more generally. As I said, this is a very, very sympathetic proposal, but I would like to see it in conjunction with the rest of the legislation that might be required. So I find it difficult to imagine what it could be. But I will also reserve the right to be wiser. And that's why we're doing this inter-ministerial work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163552	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163556	Thank you. I was actually just curious to hear the rapporteur's position on the statement by the Minister for Gender Equality, who is of course from the rapporteur's own party. Because, as Mrs Rosa Lund also says, it is action that creates change. So the government will send a clear signal: we will not accept the violation of the rights of homosexuals and transgenders; we will not accept that this group should generally have a worse and safer life. The opinion of the Minister for Gender Equality must be acted upon. What clear signals can the rapporteur then give if it does not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163637	Now the rapporteur asks if I agree with my party colleague. I am, I agree very much. And there is also a reason why this inter-ministerial work has been initiated. It is, of course, because one would like to look at where there is something in our legislation in this country that requires a change in order to live up to exactly what the Minister of Gender Equality is being quoted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163700	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Martin Geertsen. And then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163710	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution is aware that this is all described here as a sympathetic proposal, and that is what happens when you look down on it in the first place. But then you dive into it a little and find out that what is proposed is already the case law, and yes, it is reasonable to suggest what is already the case law, but the truth is that what Enhedslisten is proposing, even if there were a majority and we all voted for it tomorrow, would not mean anything in the real world; it would not make a difference if we voted this through today for those people who are facing hate crimes tomorrow, because they are already secured. So to make a proposal here in the Assembly room, trying to boast that you want to do better for these people, that you are on their side, and it is all of us who do not want anything, is fresh when what you are proposing is what the legal situation is today. I think that the initiative taken by the government is much more sympathetic. There you say precisely that there is a problem here, we cannot live with that, and we must do something about it, so that we set up a working group which, across ministries, must look across resort areas at how we can ensure that we are punished hate crimes, but at best prevented them. I think that is sympathetic, and that is also why we do not support it here, because we do not support legislation that is already case law, and certainly not when the government has said that it wants to go further and that it has far greater ambitions than this. So we do not support this proposal, which on paper looks sympathetic, but which is really just a blow to the air. Of course, we support what the government has set up and which can really make a difference to the people who are subjected to hate crimes, including the tranned ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163919	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163923	Thank you, Mrs Lindahl, for a very interesting speech from the platform. Have I understood correctly that it makes no difference to the Liberal Alliance what our penal code says?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163938	What is relevant and interesting for the Liberal Alliance is the case law that exists, and that is how we help and take care of the people who are subjected to hate crimes in Denmark. That is what we are concerned about: the reality of people who are subjected to hate crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163953	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228163955	It is also an important reality to be preoccupied with, and we are also preoccupied with that reality in the Enhedslisten. And that's why we're proposing that these people be protected in the penal code. As far as I'm concerned, these two are actually the same thing. The reality that is for these people comes from somewhere, among other things. from our legislation. And that's why I find it hard to understand if the Liberal Alliance cares so much about these people, as Mrs. Laura Lindahl says... that you don't want to sign this into the penal code. If the expert group proposes that it be included in the penal code, will the Liberal Alliance be involved in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164030	Well, it's not because we're against this one-on-one, but it's a blow to the air. We want a lot more in this area. This proposal will not make a difference to those who are subjected to hate crimes, because the case law is that it is already an aggravating circumstance. So there's just nothing new in this proposal. That's how it is today. We want more, and that is what we hope for the inter-ministerial working group to come along with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164057	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164104	Thank you. I have to start by commenting on Mrs Lindahl's argument here that it is already the case law that it is a blow in the air and that nothing is happening. I simply think that is at the limit of foolish reasoning. Today we have a case law that makes it illegal to discriminate on grounds of gender when we talk about equal pay. Nevertheless, we have to note that we have an illegal case law because there has been no equal pay in the 42 years in Denmark. So to say that we should not adjust our legislation and create the framework for achieving equal pay, I find it very strange. Of course, we can always adjust our legislation so that it better protects our citizens, whether they are minorities or a majority. Speaking of numbers, we have some very, very sad numbers in this area. Three times as many homosexuals, transsexuals and bisexuals try suicide, and the rate is even higher when we talk about people who also have minority backgrounds. One in three experiences a derogatory tone about lgbt colleagues, a survey from the LO shows. And that's an indication that we have some major challenges in this area. I actually agree that we could wait for the opinions of the committee, and I actually agree that it is not only this legislative proposal that will move forward, but it will also move forward. So we also need a great deal more education and information in this area. We need to equip our teachers at all levels from primary and higher education levels to create some knowledge and environments that make us more tolerant and that we are able to say away from, for example, those colleagues we are experiencing are discriminated against. So this proposal cannot stand alone, but it is a good proposal and the alternative supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164331	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164336	I would like to thank the alternative for expressing their position in this area. I'm just gonna have to correct sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, in relation to that he quotes me for not wanting to adjust the legislation. Well, that's factually wrong. I stood on the platform and said that we are preoccupied with this agenda. The government, including the Liberal Alliance, is certainly more ambitious in this area, and that is why we agree with the working group set up by the Minister in this area; indeed, it is because we have greater ambitions than adjusting this one paragraph. We would like to see whether it is not possible to do more across ministries to prevent and punish hate crimes. So we would like to adjust our legislation, but on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164431	Thank you. I'm sorry if I didn't make myself clear enough. So, the question to Mrs Lindahl is, of course, whether the rapporteur can imagine a situation in which gender, gender identity and gender expressions should not be added to the penal code. That's the first thing. The second is that the rapporteur says that this is not going to have any significance, because the case-law is already such that we must not discriminate. However, we can still recognise that there is a problem in our society, so it could still be necessary to adjust the legislation. It was really just my reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164506	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164508	But I certainly believe that we will have to adjust the legislation. I just think we're going to make it wider, and I think we're going to do more than what Enhedslisten is proposing in this proposal. And should we then say yes to this now, knowing that it may be that, when the working group makes its recommendations, one has to make adjustments to the very same paragraphs? Or should it be said that we have now set up this working group, so let's see what it comes with before we start to legislate, change and adjust this narrow field when we actually have bigger ambitions? At that point, I think that what the government is proposing is so sensible and, of course, we support that in the Liberal Alliance. But it is not a question of us not wanting anything in this area, because of course we want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164551	I hear the rapporteur say that she believes that what we are going to support is going to be wider and more, but I did not hear any concrete action from the platform when the rapporteur was up here just now. I hear you're waiting for more knowledge. But what is it that is getting wider and more? There must then be some golden insight; one must be able to inform me about what is wider and more, in addition to this very concrete proposal made by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164615	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164619	I have just one question for the rapporteur of the alternative: does the alternative view this proposal as a ceiling, that is to say, as a maximum for what can be done to safeguard the rights of those who are assessed, or as a minimum, that is to say, as something we should at least do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164636	Thank you for the question. I think that the essence here is that when we go in and adjust the legislation with tiny steps, it is because many cymbals small give safer existences for our citizens in Denmark. And this is one adjustment to ensure a more secure and dignified life, as we can also note that the Minister for Gender Equality has recently stated: that is unacceptable and that some bell-clear signals have to be sent. But I do not know what these clear signals are; apparently there is no support for sending them here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164707	With that, we thank Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Then we move on, and it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF who's going on the field. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164726	Thank you. In the SF, we are positive about the proposal. For the SF, it is absolutely fundamental that we ensure that we have a society where you can be who you are, without risking facing oppression or prejudices, and certainly not violence. It is therefore worrying that the number of hate crimes has increased over the last two years, as shown by the National Police's annual reports on hate crimes. In the SF, we want to combat prejudices aboutlgbt+ people, and I hear that there is agreement in the Assembly Hall, among other things. through information and interventions in primary and lower secondary schools. But increased information does not only provide the necessary protection for minorities. Our legislation must also be clear and clear so that there can be no doubt that the legislation applies to all minorities, in this case also people with a different gender identity or gender expression than the majority. SF therefore supports adding the words gender, gender identity and gender expressions to the penal code, as Enhedslisten suggests. SF also notes both LGBT Denmark's and Intersex Denmark's comments on the motion for a resolution that legislation to protect minorities is not only limited to the penal code. Discrimination and other forms of oppression of minorities can also take place in everyday life, and that is why we in Denmark have the discrimination law and the equal treatment law. The SF is therefore also open to examining, in addition to examining the consequences of the amendments to the criminal code in the motion for a resolution, the possibility of amending the equal treatment law and the law on discrimination. For the SF, it is a fundamental consideration that we have clear and clear legislation that embraces and protects everyone in our society. As has already been mentioned in the debate here, there is already an in-service effort to put an end to hate crimes, which is part of the action plan adopted in the movement pool. A thematic meeting on this is scheduled for March. It is therefore obvious that what Enhedslisten is proposing here is part of the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164943	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228164959	Thank you, and thank you for a good debate. It is always nice when someone thinks that the proposals that are being put forward are sympathetic. Sympathy is just not always enough. I believe that action is needed here too. I should like to begin by welcoming from the Radical Left that not only do they find the proposal sympathetic, but they also support it. Every year in August we celebrate Copenhagen Pride. We celebrate diversity, love and the right to love and live as you please. Although Danish legislation has made progress in protecting various minorities, discrimination, hatred and threats are still part of everyday life for a great many. Being physically or mentally attacked because of your identity, because of who you are, hits particularly hard. It is therefore time for us to close the gaps in the legislation and improve the fight against hate crime. A special group in Denmark is still and increasingly subject to crimes because of their gender identity. In addition to the physical and psychological marks left behind by hate crimes, this kind of crime also results in fear and insecurity in others. You get scared to go out, you get scared to walk the street, you get scared to be who you are. The fact that hate crimes take place makes it hard to be yourself. Therefore, many live with hidden identity or refrain from discrimination or discrimination for fear of being subjected to hate crimes. But no one should live a life where they feel that they should look over the shoulder on the street or be nervous about moving around in the nightlife. Approx. 20% In the last year, the number of people who live there has considered suicide, and when we look at new Danish lgbt people, the figure rises to a total of 33 per cent. 50% of Danish tranned avoids places for fear of assault, threats or harassment. The figures here are very alarming, bearing in mind that we are one of the countries in the world where lgbt people actually have the best rights. Although a clause in the penal code, which we have also discussed a little here, cannot protect this group from hate crimes alone, it will send a strong signal to our society that we do not tolerate such hate crimes, even on the basis of gender identity. Therefore, it is important to add gender, gender identity and gender expressions to the penal code of hate speech. We owe this to the minority who today fear for their lives, who cannot be who they are. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is clearly a hole in the law on hate crimes that this is not part of it. Then we've been discussing a little bit of this with the right to become wiser, as sir. Martin Geertsen mentioned, and it is, I think, very nice that the government should set up a working group to look at this. I'm just having a really, really hard time imagining that a working group working on this area wouldn't recommend that this be written into the penal code. For us in the Enhedslisten, one simply does not rule out the other. It is easy to set up a working group working on this, which will hopefully include a lot of measures that will protect the people of Denmark, but that does not exclude the fact that this resolution can also be adopted, so that we amend the penal code. I simply do not understand why we need to postpone giving this protection to a minority in Denmark. Having said that, we in the Enhedslist are very much looking forward to the working group making its recommendations and hope that at that time the government in office will present this as a legislative proposal so that we can close the gap in the penal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165412	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165417	Thank you. I would really just like to thank the rapporteur and Enhedslisten for taking up the first of many speeches that we need to have about hate crimes and to get rid of prejudices and hatred and negative norm culture in Denmark. Would the rapporteur be interested in us looking at a report that the listening parties might be able to put a little more action behind, and then say that this is something we would like to present when we have received feedback from the trans-ministerial work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165456	Yes, we in the Enhedslisten will be very interested in bringing together the listening parties, let us call them that, but at least those parties who have indicated that they support it here, so that after an election we can hopefully have a majority for such a report so that we can get it changed right away and not have to wait for, excuse me, another pickle jar.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165515	After all, there are no politicians in this Chamber who are not listening. No, that's the way it is. With that, we thank Mrs Rosa Lund. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165537	The debate is open and we start with the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165616	Thank you. As I have pointed out on several occasions to the Conciliation Committee behind the Train Fund DK, the government does not, as a starting point, propose any draft construction laws for projects which have not been financed. It has always been the view of the government that the right order is that financing is first secured by the Finance Act and that only then will a proposal be made for a construction law. The fact is that a railway is not built simply by adopting a proposal for a construction law. The construction of a new track on West Funen will be associated with high costs, which must necessarily be seen in the context of the overall framework for public investment. Having said that, the government will, of course, if a majority of the Folketing so wishes, propose a construction law for a new track on West Funen. However, I note that the motion for a resolution requires the government to propose a construction law for the project with a new railway over West Funen by 31 March 2019. The motion for a resolution has been tabled on 25 January 2019. So the proposers, that is, the railway fund parties, give about two months to draft the bill and send it to public consultation etc., and it is assumed that the government will start work even before the resolution is adopted in the Folketing. It is a very short period of time if you compare with normal conditions for a process with the drafting of a legislative proposal. In comparison, I can, for example, say: state that my ministry usually strives to submit legislative proposals in public consultation for a minimum period of 31 days, and preferably longer, so that there is plenty of time for the public as well as relevant authorities and organisations to submit comments. If the resolution is adopted, I will, of course, do everything I can to make a legislative proposal for the project by the end of March. However, it is quite obvious that, if this deadline is to be respected, it will have some consequences on the length of time available for consideration of the legislative proposal, including for public consultation. It is therefore tempting to ask the railway fund parties whether they have thought about the poor opportunities that the very tight timetable gives the public and others to comment on the public consultation and whether it was not more reasonable for a little more time to be devoted to the legislative proposal. In addition to proposing a construction law, the resolution also requires the government to budget the construction of the new railway in the Finance Act. To this end, I can confirm that this will happen if the majority that is to conclude the financial law agreement for 2020 wants to give priority to a new track in West Funen. In this context, as in other similar contexts, financing of the project must be seen in relation to the priority given to other projects. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165918	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165924	Thank you. I just note the Minister's reference to the fact that this is a short time limit, because the proposal was tabled on 25 January 2019. Then I just want to know if the Minister has been aware of a previous political desire to present this construction bill before 25 January 2019, perhaps from a political majority. Has the Minister been aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228165956	Yeah, I've heard of the wish before. However, as I have said, the government has the policy of first getting funding and then putting forward proposals for construction legislation. That is why I have not had a wish to break with that policy unless there was a majority in this Parliament that instructed me to put forward a proposal for a construction law for the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170017	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170021	But is it a particularly objective argument on the part of the Minister to use the date of submission of a motion for a resolution when the request has been made and the Minister has been aware of it a long time before? Is that a fair way of arguing as a minister? That is my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170043	I do not think there is anything unfair about taking the parliamentary process seriously and not putting forward legislative proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber because some parties have said something in the media. In other words, if the government is required to do so by means of resolutions in this Chamber, then the government should, of course, do so, and I intend to do so. I am just saying to the parties behind the resolution that the time allocated to it is very short.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170113	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170118	The Minister is, of course, right in saying that it is possible to become a relatively, yes, short process in the legislative process. Now it can be said that the main aspects of such a thing are usually always the direction; it always gives rise to a lot of debate and local both resistance and rejoicing etc. This also applies when we plan motorways. We have, of course, been through this process here, and we have even found, from the point of view of the conciliation circle, the direction of the line it should be, namely the northern direction of the line. We've even found money for it too. When the Minister's appeal like that is that we make it so late it was one of the things that Roger Courage Matthisen also mentioned, I must say that it has been a long known wish. It has been part of the Train Fund DK, as long as the Train Fund DK has existed, and ever since we split it up in a phase one and a phase two, where the track over West Funen just belonged to phase one. So it cannot be surprising to him, and that is why I think perhaps the government should have been more proactive and taken hold of it and asked what we are doing, so we might have a longer process if that is what we would have in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170233	After all, we in the government have the principle that we do not propose construction laws until funding is provided for in the Finance Act. And there has been an opportunity to do so in the past, and that has not been done. If it is the case that there is a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution, and you maintain it here and say that it is okay that we only have one week for consultation or two weeks for consultation, then I will listen to it and respect it and only devote one or two weeks for consultation. And then it must be up to the majority to defend that the hearing is therefore very short. And you can have your arguments for it, and Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170310	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170311	Yes, and I think we are doing that, although not with pleasure, because it is always a bad thing when you get into having to cut down the consultation period. However, as I say, I think that the main consultation has, after all, been there about the vvm statement and the selection of the route, so I am not so worried about that after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170333	Well, that has been noted, and if other parties in the majority say the same thing, then that is what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170338	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170341	I have to admit, frankly, that I am also somewhat surprised by the argument that it should be us as proposers who are causing us to have a hasty process. Well, the Train Fund DK is a several-year-old agreement. It was in the last parliamentary term that this agreement was made. So you've had all the time you could want as a government to prepare this. In addition, it happened back in 2016 that an agreement was reached by the then government with the railway associations to provide full funding for the first phase of the Train Fund DK. Then it has happened subsequently that we in the conciliation circle have assigned money for the extra cost of the northern solution in the better and cheaper way. It's back in 2017 that it happens. So there's been all the time the government's ever wanted in relation to this. Can the Minister not confirm that we have actually sent letters indicating where we are giving the funding and saying that what it costs extra is that we are willing to take in the better and cheaper conciliation circle, so that what should have been used there we spend making sure that there is the direction that more politicians, including representatives of the governing parties, have been out to want in relation to Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170503	Yes, but sir. Rasmus Prehn just has to acknowledge that there is a majority in the Folketing that determines the financial framework through the annual financial laws. And on these finance laws there is a framework, that is, a framework for investment in installations, and it has this size and consists of all sorts of projects. There are super hospitals, there are new schools, there are municipal facilities, there are all sorts of facilities. And that framework is, in fact, full, which means that if you want to bring in West Funen for 2020, some of the projects are in the framework that needs to be tampered with. And there is not a majority in the Folketing who wanted to do so in the context of the financial law negotiations. Sir, I'm afraid so. So Rasmus Prehn will soon begin to understand, because I have heard this song a lot of times, and I have answered the same thing every time: there is not a majority in the Folketing who has devoted the financial resources to it. I do not know if there is a hen to pick between the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, because the Danish People's Party is involved in making financial laws and has not wanted to make that priority in the financial years, that is, the years after the actual financial year, here from 2020. And you have to find out within the Train Fund DK, i.e. whether you have a hen to pick with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170614	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170617	It is essentially a question of the government, which by its very nature is the executive, choosing not to obey the majority of the legislature, which is the Folketing. There is a majority in the Folketing, who established long before making the Finance Act for 2020 that there was a project to be carried out and that funding was indicated, and then it is up to the government as the executive to do what is majority in the Folketing. If you ignore it, yes, it is a violation of decades of tradition in this area. And I understand perfectly well that the Danish People's Party will not use political capital in a financial bill debate to fight through something that they have already put forward and obtained a majority in favour. Is it really the case that the minister stands here and ignores the majority in the Folketing and says: it may well be that minister means servant and the government is the executive, but we do not care and we ignore the majority there is?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170717	That's just some rhetoric from sir. Rasmus Prehn, because there is a majority who makes the budget law, and that majority has not agreed with Mr President. Rasmus Prehn in that a framework was to be set up in 2020 for the construction of new tracks on West Funen. So, it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn, who does not respect the majority in the Folketing who makes the Finance Laws, says that the majority must be subject to a different majority, who goes around saying things in the press about what they want. However, it is a more permanent institution in Danish society that you sit here in the Folketing and vote for or against a financial law as the basis for the legislative process than you walk around in the press and say what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170801	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170804	I had long since stopped being surprised by the Minister's arrogance and usual confrontational, destructive style, but I did so again today, which is why I put a small mark on my calendar. If what the Minister of Transport in this country knows about the Danish Railway Fund is what some parties have said about it in the media, and if it is only today, the minister realises that there is in fact a majority here in the Danish Parliament who wants to implement these elements of the Danish Railway Fund, then I would say that it is well enough uphill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170842	Every time I'm surprised, sir. Karsten Hønge's tumorous language and negative language flowers. I expect people to speak more normally every time, but sir... Karsten Hønge doesn't do it, and I'm surprised every time. But the point is that here in the Danish Parliament a majority of the finance laws are adopted, and that majority has not agreed with Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge in that money should be set aside for a course over West Funen yet. This may then happen, who knows, in the 2020 Finance Act; the negotiations will be in the autumn of 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170922	With that, we thank the Minister. Then we go further in the rapporteur's line, and I understand that it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl who represents the Danish People's Party on this transport policy issue, with which I can see Mrs Karina Adsbøl looking forward to taking the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228170948	Thank you. We ourselves are co-sponsors of this resolution, so of course we support it. And then I should say from our transport rapporteur that, unfortunately, he is stuck in traffic. We support the proposal and hope that the government will quickly get into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171009	At least it was very short and precise and with a pious desire. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Then we give the floor to Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left Party with more, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171023	With many more. I've ripped this case out of the hands of the Left Transport Rapporteur, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. The fact is that the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF propose with this resolution that the government should be required to propose a construction law for a new railway over West Funen as well as in-budget construction of the new railway on the Finance Act. Let me start by stating that it is always good, and I like it too, with a good debate on infrastructure here and here, and that is why I think there is good reason to thank the proposers for raising a debate on infrastructure just like that. But there are many ways in which we can discuss infrastructure, which is why I must also say that I may find it a little strange that this is exactly the corner that the proposers are addressing. When I say that, it is because there is not really so much funding for the project itself. At any rate, we feel that when it comes to making a construction law, we prefer that all or at least parts of the project are financed in some way, but that is simply not the case here either the whole project or parts of the project. As the proposers are aware, we are not part of the agreement on the Togfonden DK, where the rail project over West Funen is included, and in the current situation Denmark, we believe, has much more need to improve the road network than to win some expensive minutes at a shorter journey time by train. When it comes to the track above West Funen, it is also well known that the Left gives priority to upgrading the Funen motorway much higher, including the extension of the southern stage on Odense. Having said that, we cannot and will not be able to obstruct Parliament if a majority in the Folketing wants to build the track over West Funen and also provide the necessary funding for it. However, we also feel that we cannot, as a party, help to oblige the government to draw up a construction law for which no money has been set aside in the Finance Act right now. What I have just said is on behalf of the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171239	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur has been taken up elsewhere, but there is a brief comment from Mr Liberal Alliance. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171246	I would like to point out that this is, of course, a project in phase 1 of the Togfonden DK, and it is therefore the case that the rapporteur on transport from the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, again and again, has said that the Left supports the Togfonden DK's phase 1. And as I mentioned in my question to the Minister earlier, it is the case that the former Left Government made an agreement in 2016 to divide the Train Fund DK into two chunks where phase 1 was joined. Then there has been a situation where there was a desire to choose a northern route on West Funen, and then there were several of the Left members of the Folketing, among others. Mrs. Jane Heitmann and Mr. Erling Bonnesen, who was out on behalf of the Left to promise the northern line and the expensive line. No funding has been allocated, but we have in the railway fund board, which is also identical to the "Better and cheaper" conciliation group, given funding. So there is a majority in the Folketing that has assigned funding back in 2017. Does the rapporteur of the Left stand here and distance himself from what the rapporteur of the Left has said about phase 1, and is he standing here and denying a majority in the Danish Parliament who has designated funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171414	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171415	No, that is to say, I think that if it is the case that money can be found on the Finance Act for all the construction projects that you can think of at all, if you are part of a finance agreement where you give priority to some construction projects, then you have the priorities you have in such a debate. That's one part. And to the second part, as I said in my speech here, it is, of course, a majority in the Folketing that is completely free to impose anything on the government. I have just yet to see that you can build railways or motorways or any other infrastructure in this country, unless you have money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171459	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171501	Has the rapporteur of the Left not heard at all what I was saying in my question? We stand the rapporteur of the Left here on the platform of the Danish Parliament and overrule the Left's transport rapporteur, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who has said several times that we are joining phase 1? Is the Left suddenly against phase 1 of the Train Foundation DK? Because then it's really news. In the past, the message has been raised: we support phase 1, that is sensible enough and so on. Is it also the case that the rapporteur of the Left stands and denies Mrs Jane Heitmann and Mr. Erling Bonnesen, who has been out on behalf of the Left to promise the more expensive route, which is the northern one? Is the rapporteur of the Left leaning off the board like that? It's very unusual.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171549-2	I think that Mr. Rasmus Prehn must listen to what the Minister of Transport said before. Well, it's customary that when you make a construction law, you have some form of financing with it. That is, in fact, the crux of the matter here. This is where the government is required to make a construction law without the funding being provided. That's kind of what's at the core.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171614	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171617	Sir. Martin Geertsen is probably aware that it was in fact the Left who invented the timetable. It was, in fact, the present Prime Minister who, of course, is about to be over 10 years ago, in fact proposed that such a thing should be created for the Danish railway. It was, of course, in recognition that the railway was limping behind and needed a lift. It was then the previous Social Democrat-led government, which through this majority, which then manifests itself today, actually began to do what needs to be done to get rid of an hour model, namely to upgrade with new lanes, with speed upgrades and electrification. It is therefore surprising that the Left has given such a strong resistance to the Danish Railway Foundation DK and to the increase in the Danish Railways which is located in the Togfonden DK. But sir... Martin Geertsen explain to me why it has emerged, if I may say so, in turn in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171719	This could very quickly develop into a slightly larger debate on transport policy, and this is, of course, a concrete construction project for which, in our view, there is no capital financing. But I was also trying to say, as I indicated in my initial speech, that we have a priority that is about the Danish road network being expanded. And so it is some of the demands and some of the wishes that we make when the government presents its vision and investment plan for Danish infrastructure in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171755	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171756	In other words, even large business organisations such as the United Kingdom. Danish Industry has noticed that this isn't a either-or. It's not either roads and asphalt or railroad. Danish Industry has gradually and especially their transport department at Michael Svane ■ quite, quite many times and for relatively quite a long time raised an index finger and said that there must be collective traffic. And in their recent plan, which has just arrived, that is to say their infrastructure plan, there are in fact also parts of the Train Fund DK's phase 2. That's where they actually put money. So I do not quite understand what is one-sided about saying that we are now giving priority to roads rather than rail when it is not an either-or.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171845	I don't think that's a fair description, sir. Henning Hyllested is coming with us. In other words, the part of the country in which we are sitting and in which we are sitting now, the government has thought about many things, and many projects have also been launched which are actually concerned with the development of public transport. However, this does not change the fact that we think that there are some projects, especially motorway projects, around the country that are urgently needed. And then I have to say a little bit of patience, because at some point the government comes up with a plan for how to look forward to the investment picture for infrastructure in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171921	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228171922	I'd like to join you, sir. Martin Geertsen, that there is a need for an additional track on the Funen motorway. Obviously there are, because it also causes some problems when you walk from several tracks and then narrow them in. What I am missing is simply the argument for what it has to do with the railways. At the same time, there is such a need for us to move more people from the cars to the railways. Because whether we get that extra track, there's pressure on our roads, and there's more and more cars coming. We have the money in the drawer to build railroads, so how does Mr. Martin Geertsen built that contrast?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172001	I think we have to say from a historical point of view that there has also been investment in traffic in public transport in this country over recent years. And I think that's a good thing. My point is that there is now also a strong need to upgrade the Danish road network, including not least motorways in many parts of the country. In my view, there is a great need for this. And I will say again: let us now see what the government's infrastructure plan will contain. I should be very surprised if there are not also some initiatives and projects aimed at public transport and those who use public transport and need to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172045	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172046	Yes, but there's still a confirmation on my part that there's a need to expand the Funen motorway. But the railway is doing a completely different job, including getting the trains through more quickly. Here, too, I would like to ask Mr. Martin Geertsen, if he has thought about the fact that when we get this new track over West Funen, it also promises the railway line we have today, so that the West Funen station cities can continue to see themselves connected to the rail network, whereas they will come under pressure if we do not get the new track. So here too I think that the Left may leave the citizens who live in rural areas on West Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172122	In relation to the specific discussion on the basis of the specific motion for a resolution tabled here, I would like to say that we are all in fact, Mr President. Karsten Hønge and myself can have all kinds of wishes for what we want from infrastructure. And I can guarantee you, sir. Karsten Høngge for that I also have many priorities in relation to the area where I live, and perhaps also some things that go beyond what the government might at some point be willing to devote money to by infrastructure in the part of the country where I come from. But when you table a motion for a resolution in which, in my view, there is no funding, I think you do the bill without the host.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172159	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. And then it's sir. Henning Hyllested as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172211	Thank you. Allow me to welcome the fact that we have now come so far that we can table a motion for a resolution to establish a new track with two tracks across West Funen. And, of course, I welcome that, because the existing track on West Funen is a full track. Capacity on the field is exhausted. There are both IC Lyn running regular IC trains running regional trains and freight trains on that track. So it's one of those places that's a bottleneck. It is also one of the places which causes delays on the other rail network in train traffic. It's been a long process. It is the case that with the Togfonden DK's projects in general, even with the Togfonden DK's phase I, where Vestfyn is part of the project, we have met with an incomprehensible resistance in my view. And that has helped to slow down the process. It is quite clear that the government has been opposed to this and therefore has not been interested in promoting the process. That is so fair, perhaps, but it has been observed that throughout the lifetime of this government and during the life of the previous government there has therefore been a majority in favour of this. So I think we could have gone further than we are today. However, as I said, I welcome the fact that we are now at the point where we can table a motion for a resolution that we should now set up the track. A construction law has to be drawn up and subsequently it has to be budgeted in the Finance Act. The track is fully funded, and it is, after all, a discussion that we have had regularly with both the Ministry of Transport and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance, so that the money is there. And when we then chose the northern line, which was a little more expensive than nearly 0.5 billion. kr. More expensive then we also found the money in the conciliation circle •Better and cheaper • which is identical, one might say, with the one around the Train Fund DK. So the track is fully funded, and that is simply not right when, among other things, it is. Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who is then not present today, has said that the track is not fully funded and therefore cannot be established. That is simply not true. The track over West Funen, as I say, is something that will give a very good boost to the Danish railway. This applies in general to the projects of the Train Fund DK. The railroad is crowded these years, no doubt about it. You have a fierce competition from the cheap cars that the government has got through, you can say, and the competition that will come from the long-distance buses that are now providing easier conditions. There has been a struggle with a backlog and lack of maintenance on the infrastructure itself. We have had the IC4 scandal in DSB, which has also led to a lack of investment in the new trains, in which we can finally begin to invest. So there is no doubt that the new track over West Funen, like the other projects in Togfonden DK, will give a boost along with the electrification, which I must remember and say is part of this. It will give a tremendous boost to the Danish railway. It does not bring the Danish railway far ahead of our neighbouring countries, but it does bring us, after all, roughly to the level of the railway in Sweden and in Germany and elsewhere around Europe. We should be happy about that, and of course we should bet on it, that is to say that we will be part of it. It also makes it easier to make cross-border traffic at that time, if that is what we want and we want to do so. That's not what the West Funen railroad is all about. It is about getting rid of one of the worst bottlenecks on the Danish rail network and getting more regular traffic. I welcome and say from the alternative that they support this draft parliamentary resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. And then it's sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172652	There is a spring atmosphere over Denmark. It's a good day for parties like SF that want more, better and cheaper trains on time. Denmark must be united, and our railroad needs to be modernised to such an extent. It must be possible for everyone, including people without a car, to be able to reach places of education and jobs. And they must be able to do so in a way that is both environmentally and climate-friendly. The railroad over West Funen is absolutely necessary to ensure faster trains, and it will at the same time secure the West Funen station cities. It offers a unique opportunity to think the Svendborg railway together with the light rail in Odense and then along with the railway over West Funen, that is, the one serving the West Funen station cities. And yes, it is also a good idea to expand the Funen motorway. There is congestion and there are places where traffic becomes dangerous because of narrowing the lanes. But the answer is not only more and more cars and more and more roads to the more and more cars, for Denmark suffers from constipation, and it is actually a rather sluggish feeling. And there is the answer not just to build even more roads for even more cars. We need roads, but above all we need more public transport. And then we are so fortunate today that the project contained in the motion for a resolution is fully funded. The money is in the drawer, and it is about pulling it out, pulling it up and spending it. It's just about getting started. It can then be said that it is a little incredible that a resolution had to be tabled to get this through. However, if the level of knowledge in the government is as it was said earlier, that this project is only being taken into account because some parties have said so in the media, yes, then it is evident that a resolution is necessary. And then let's get to work on the construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172907	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228172930	There is no doubt that there is a huge need to increase railway capacity on Funen. It is the case that a great many of our freight trains pass that way, and if there is also room for proper passenger transport, it is absolutely essential that we increase capacity. And like the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Karsten Hønge, also mentioned, is such that when we get an extra rail track for fast trains etc., it allows you to drive on the existing rail network with less local trains that can provide a super good service in the west of Funen, which is of great interest. I myself have visited the area and talked to the local citizens and local politicians who want there to be a boost in relation to the local and in that area. It will also mean that we, who have to move on to the Jutlandese, can get back and forth more quickly. So that's why it's making this upgrade crucial, and that's why it was an important part of the Togfonden DK, when back in the last term we agreed this widely in the Folketing. And that is why it has also been extremely disappointing when there is a majority for it in the Folketing, and when the funding has been given that a government has come, first a narrow Left government and now a less narrow, yet narrow three-clover government with the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, which simply systematically ignores the majority that is in the Folketing. It is the case in Denmark that we have a proud tradition of democracy and a proud tradition that it is the majority of the Folketing that decides the policy we have and a tradition that when you have a government, yes, it must carry out the policy that is majority in the Folketing. In primary school we learned this by having the legislature, it's the Folketing, and then you have the executive power, and that's the government. We have also learned about the boring period of Provisional Governments, where there was a king who ignored the majority in the Folketing and would not listen to what was supported in the Folketing. There we have learned throughout our childhood that it was a monstrous past, something we distanced ourselves from, something we would not accept. And we have proudly reminded each other that we laid down the principle of parliamentarism back in 1901. And that is why it is appalling and worrying, to say the least, that there has been an arrogant and scoffing attitude on the part of the governing parties in relation to what a majority in the Folketing wants. There is a majority in the Danish Parliament that supports the Danish Railway Fund and wants us to invest in a stronger rail network in the same way as we have to invest in road infrastructure. It is simply crucial if we are to have trains in the future, that we make the investments that are needed to get the electrified rail network, that we have speed-up it so that we can have a collective traffic system in the future that is competitive. There is a majority in favour of this in the Folketing, and there is a majority in favour of it in the population, and that is why it is rather strange that there is a government which repeatedly ignores this majority. As we have outlined in our question, it is indeed the case that there is funding for the Train Fund DK's phase 1. It is true that there have been challenges in relation to phase 2 • we have also had a dialogue on this, and we shall look at this later here in 2019 • but there is funding for phase 1. And back in 2016, we had meetings with the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, where we talked about it in detail, and we agreed that we split it into two stages, because then there is funding for the first phase, and then we will have to look at the funding for the second phase later. A few years ago, a number of citizens in the West Funen are beginning to be concerned about the route to which it was proposed. And there are also city council members, mayors and others who point out that choosing the original route will come in and bother a business area. And I should just like to promise that there were also representatives of the bourgeois parties involved in that debate and that they would probably have to work to get a northern route and that it was just something for them. And there were several named members of the Left, including Mrs Jane Heitmann and Mr. Erling Bonnesen, who was out in the Funen media and promised that they would probably work to get a northerly line that would be the right thing to do, and that they should work for that. And what then happened was that they in no way assigned any kind of funding. What the parties behind the conciliation on the Train Fund DK did was that we said: we can see that the budget we have in the Train Fund DK is not enough for the northern route, and then we have to think of something, because we have the responsibility of finding funding; we will not stand in the Parliament and promise anything without the funding being managed. Then we looked at what else we saw. And there we had a conciliation on better and cheaper public transport, where we have roughly 1 billion. kr. a year. Much of it is tied up with agreements and one with the other, so it is not so much free money we have, but we actually found the funding that was needed to find the extra money it cost to make the northern route, which among other things. Mrs. Jane Heitmann and Mr. Erling Bonnesen had been out to promise, although they had not found any funding. So we found the funding and then we would have expected that we could say: now there is simply no one in the Folketing or in the government who can come and accuse us that there is no funding. After all, we have put it forward, and we have sent letters to the Ministry and pointed out where the money is now, nobody can come and say that we do not have the funding in place. That's where we were really surprised. Some, however, were so cynical that they were so ignorant that they were so arrogant that they could once again claim that there was no funding. Well, I just didn't believe my own ears and eyes when I saw this. First of all, we are being mocked by the fact that the economy is not in control, and then we are making an agreement to divide the Togfonden DK into two stages, so that the economy is under control, and then we come and demand a more expensive project than what has been planned. Then we find the funding for it, and then you come after and you say that the economy is not in control. It is also grossly ridiculous to ignore the majority that prevails in this Chamber, to ignore parliamentarianism. I think it's sad and sad. We shall then table a motion for a resolution, and it has to be said that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind this motion for a resolution. The Danish People's Party is in this motion for a resolution, so it is a proposal made by a majority of the Danish Parliament. This means that the minister who took the floor before is in a minority. It is a minority minister who goes up and, as such, uses his speaking time here in the Folketing to say that he will not respect the majority of the Folketing. To put it mildly, I find that appalling and I think it is a pity. I think we should take and get into the fight as a government party and say: OK, we have to say that it is the majority of the Folketing that has adopted something; now our task is to live up to the word minister, which means servant, and to carry out the policy that the majority of the Folketing has imposed on us. We have parliamentarianism and that means that it is the legislative assembly that adopts the policy. It is not the executive power that can act at will. You must correct and pursue the policy that is a majority in favour. So I very much hope that the government will, on the one hand, drop the money on the Finance Act and, on the other hand, create a construction law so that we can get this project started, which is absolutely crucial in terms of getting a future railway that works, to be able to ensure that we get faster trains for those who need to go through, that we can get a boost on the local track, and that we can also avoid so much congestion on the roads, because we should like to have an attractive alternative to driving on the roads. And yes, we could also have a desire for road infrastructure, and that is why we Socialists have put forward a plan for infrastructure that will apply over the next 10 years, where we are launching broad negotiations and where we are also proposing to extend the motorway on Funen and elsewhere, because it is crucial. We want to take responsibility, we want to cooperate broadly, but frankly we think that the government and the governing parties should respect the clear majority in the Folketing and then cooperate instead of trying to sabotage what is a majority in the Folketing. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to mention that the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, is prevented from attending, and I have promised to speak on his behalf. It is the case that the Radical Left fully agrees with our message. They are included in the resolution and, frankly, they are also appalled by the arrogance of the government, which disregards a majority of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228173924	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228173927	I'm just gonna listen, sir. Rasmus Prehn, about Mr. Rasmus Prehn remembers what a law is governing Denmark's household budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228173942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228173943	Yes, it is the Finance Act, and there is the fact that the government has chosen not to take account of what is a majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174053	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174054	Now it was sir. Rasmus Prehn himself, who put forward the advance period before, and if there was anything that was characteristic of the provisory period, it was, in fact, that the government was running legislation bypassing the legislature, and that is exactly what Mr. Rasmus Prehn calls on the government to do now, namely to make a household account next to the Finance Act. Well, you can't, sir. Rasmus Prehn! I mean, we have to have a supporting element here called the Finance Act, and this project is not included in the Finance Act. Is Mr. Rasmus Prehn doesn't agree with that? Or what kind of double bookkeeping is that, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn wants a ride here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174130	I think it's an unreasonable rhetoric to call something double accounting. It's about how things have been decided in the Folketing. Once something has been passed in the Folketing, the government has a responsibility to put it into its Finance Act. Then you cannot come after and say: we must start over, you have been beaten home in Ludo, and now you must negotiate it again. That is why it is the task of the government, before negotiating the Finance Act, to put forward what covers what is a majority in the Folketing. You have the responsibility as a minister to take account of the majority of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174212	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. And then the Minister of Transport has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174223	It is not often that we take the floor during the discussion of ordinary legislative and resolution motions for a second round, but it is also not very often that a member of a party who would like to contest the Prime Minister's office in Denmark goes on the floor and says so many wrong things, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn just did. The last thing he said was that a majority of the Parliament had approved it. There is no majority in the Danish Parliament that has decided anything about clues on West Funen. What the majority is now proposing is a parliamentary decision that you should make a construction law and submit it to the Folketing, and then the Folketing decides on a construction law. So it was one of many things that Mr. Rasmus Prehn said it was wrong. And I must again lecture Mr. Rasmus Prehn says that when you sit in a budget debate, there is every possible majority who wants to spend all sorts of money on all sorts of things I am sure of. I myself have much more wishes than what finds place in a Finance Act, my party has many more wishes than what is contained in a Finance Act. I think that all sorts of areas can be considered where there is a majority of parties that want something more than what is available in a financial law. What then happens in the budget debate, and I know, sir. Rasmus Prehn hasn't really been in one of these, but what happens is that the parties sit and weigh their wishes and find out which are the most important, and what for some to find a place in the Finance Act. And when we are dealing with a construction project, there is an installation framework and within that framework there are a number of projects that we would like to implement in the financial year in question. And if you want one more project, you have to either increase the construction framework by taking something from the welfare, from the hospitals or from the schools or the like, or you have to take out one of the other construction projects. It is not the case that you can just say that you want something outside of a financial law to say: but where should the money come from? Should they come from increasing the framework by taking some money from what we call welfare? Or should they come by taking out some other construction projects and saying that they are not as important as another construction project? That's how it works in a financial law context, sir. Rasmus Prehn. You cannot just sit down here in Parliament and say that you want something without deciding what should then be downgraded in order to get it. That's why it's untrue when Mr. Rasmus Prehn claims that there is a majority in the Folketing that has made this balance and that there is a government that overrides it in the Finance Laws. No. There is a majority who sits and negotiates the Finance Laws and adopts the Finance Laws and makes the balancing of whether this specific project is more important than any of the other projects, and Mr. Rasmus Prehn was not a part of that, it is correct, but a majority in the Folketing has done so. At some point, it's gonna take a really long time. Rasmus Prehn may also be part of such a process, but until then Mr. Rasmus Prehn stops claiming that there is a government that overrides a majority. No. There's a majority in this Parliament adopting the Finance Laws. Sir. Rasmus Prehn is not part of that majority, and he must learn to live with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174610	There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174614	It is interesting, however, that what the Minister of Transport feels is called upon to do when I speak here about the need for the government to listen to what the majority of Parliament says is to climb the country's highest platform, the Parliament's platform, to say that he has to lecture the Social Democracy and the Social Democrat rapporteur on how things are related. The fact is that the Minister should not lecture us about anything, but follow the majority that is. And the majority is in the form of a settlement. It is true that we have not had a process here in Parliament where we have adopted it, but we do have the tradition in Denmark that when a majority of parties make a settlement, there is a majority for it, and then you consider it to be the case. Does the Minister stand here and distance himself from it, and has he not taken note that, as a co-author of this motion for a resolution we are discussing right now, there is a majority in the Folketing? Should the Minister not, as part of the executive, concentrate on actually being executive rather than condescending?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174738	I think that Mr. Rasmus Prehn must not be condescending to the majority of the Folketing which adopts the Parliamentary Finance Act, the State Finance Act. It is actually a serious process, contrary to what Mr. Rasmus Prehn is working here in Parliament today. The negotiation and adoption of a financial law is, in fact, a serious process.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174801	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174804	It should be a serious process, but the fact is that the government is guilty of frivolity when it makes a budget law that does not take account of what is majority in the Folketing. That is the whole point of our resolution and our criticism here. Before making the Finance Act, there was a majority in the Danish Parliament for the Togfonden DK, including for this railway track on West Funen. The government's task is then to present a budget which takes into account what has been the majority for in the Folketing. We have failed to do so here; that is what is wrong. Then you try to wipe off the responsibility of the Danish People's Party, which has said from the beginning: we have put this forward and we will not have to negotiate it twice, so if the government ignores this, we have to take it in the Assembly Hall. And that's what we're doing now. Will the Minister stand and oppose a majority in the Folketing? Is the Minister sitting over the Danish Parliament? I do not think that is appropriate in relation to our parliamentary tradition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174907	I will make a proposal for a construction law, if that is what is decided by the Danish Parliament, but that is not what this is all about. This discussion isn't about the construction law. That is what the resolution is about. But what Mr. Rasmus Prehn's speech was about something else. He claims that the government overrides a majority because the government has not found money in the Finance Act to prioritize tracks on West Funen. But it is not only the government that has not found the money; it is a majority in the Folketing that has not found the money. Now I think it's time that Mr. Rasmus Prehn begins to respect the majority that adopts the Finance Laws in Denmark. How long should the Social Democratic Party pretend that they do not understand that finance laws in Denmark are adopted by the majority of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174958	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228174959	If I may be so timid, I would say to the Minister that the process of the Togfonden DK is certainly a serious process. I have been in it all the way through, and I can say nothing more than that it has been a serious process that started under the previous government, in other words the Socialist-led government in its time. The Minister is right, of course, that there are two different majorities. That is absolutely right, and that is a rather bizarre situation. I believe that the government could have helped to prevent the rather strange situation we have found ourselves in, by, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, having been a little more proactive in seeing that there is in fact a majority for the Train Fund DK. And it's not just one that's manifested in some media. After all, we have been seriously over in the Ministry of Finance, not as a direct part of the budget negotiations, but in the Ministry of Finance with the then Minister of Finance, Claus Hjort Frederiksen, and found what was of money, and divided into phase 1 and phase 2, because then there was no more money in the form of revenue from the North Sea, etc. etc., as we had originally thought. In this way it has been a very serious process, and also in this way I think that both the present government and the narrow Left Government could have taken account of the fact that there was a majority and that when the vvm studies were available and when the designation of the line had been clarified and so on. etc., had actually taken hold of it and promoted the process so that we should not be in this strange situation.I admit it is a matter of a majority around the Finance Act, and then there is a majority around the Train Fund DK.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175156	Well, that's honest talk. But it is also easy for Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten to say so, for Mr. Henning Hyllested would not have to take part in the debate on the Finance Act, where you have to pick some things out of the construction framework to find room for the tracks on West Funen. In other words, there are many things on the construction framework there is the construction of new super hospitals, which are the municipal construction budgets for new kindergartens, new nursing homes etc. That is, of course, what the Finance Bill parties are forced to decide, but as Mr. Henning Hyllested doesn't have to decide. He can say without responsibility, "Get the money." But how? That's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175249	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175250	Well, there wasn't anything we'd rather do than sit in the budget negotiations and help distribute the money. I think it is rather polemic to say that what should then be removed from the construction framework can be money for welfare, for welfare buildings, etc. etc. Yes, yes, the government has now invested heavily throughout its lifetime in tax cuts, so they could have been brought into the discussion as well. What I noted in our negotiations, which were over in the Ministry of Finance, was that the Danish People's Party made it clear at the time that they did not want to use it, too, Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned in his rapporteur's speech political capital to negotiate the same twice; that is what their rapporteur, Mr. René Christensen said then. And of course that is why this rather strange situation has arisen, i.e. the fact that the Danish People's Party is involved in the financial law negotiations, and believes that it has actually been decided that it has been negotiated in the Ministry of Finance and that it should therefore be the responsibility of the government to promote that process, as I have also pointed out in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175401	Well, it's true that this government has relieved taxes quite considerably. This is something we welcome in the Liberal Alliance and in the whole government and in the whole majority of Parliament who have decided it, because there is also a majority behind it. In other words, there is a majority who has actively chosen to prioritise lower taxes in selected areas and who have just as actively chosen not to put money off in the construction framework on track in West Funen, that is to say at this stage. Now it is the plan under the auspices of the railway fund parties that the construction of the tracks on West Funen will start in 2020. That is why there is the possibility that the money will be set aside in connection with the budget debate, which will take place in 2019 on the 2020 Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175456	Then we'll thank the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190228175512	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, March 1, 2019. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
