ParlaMint-DK_20191031100048	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 42 (Proposal for a law amending the law on collection, etc.) Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 43 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 16 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the naming of educational establishments). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 17 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the age-related tax exemption for work as a lay judge or electionored). Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 18 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the choice of private recovery for public non-governmental claimants) and motion for a resolution No. B 20 (Proposal for a resolution on the setting up of a committee of inquiry). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 19 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better and simpler rules for climate adaptation in municipalities). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Justice (Nick Hækkerup) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the state of play of the Danish police in relation to Europol. R 4). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday, 7 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031100236	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031100351	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031100417	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are discussing here today deals with a number of different elements. Among other things: allows changes to be made to the electricity transmission network on the sole grounds of appreciation. The draft law follows up the PSO agreement of 2016 and ensures that it is possible to implement a number of cable-laying projects in areas close to cities and in sensitive nature. Thus it will be not only economic considerations but also considerations of citizens and nature that will be taken into account in these projects. The draft law also envisages that future cable laying projects may also be carried out with arguments of appreciation if political agreement and agreement on financing are reached. The draft law therefore allows a good balance to be struck between nature and citizens on the one hand and the economy on the other. The draft law also deals with the proper implementation of the new electricity market regulation and ensures that small renewable energy installations such as the electricity grids are properly implemented. private PV plants, which are currently excluded from balance-of-payments liability, may continue to be so. These plants supply relatively small quantities of electricity to the grid and therefore the risk that the installations create imbalances in the electricity grid is small. Finally, the draft law also provides for a change in order of law, whereby the basic amount, which is the price premium that has been granted to electricity produced at decentralised cogeneration plants with natural gas or biogas, is written out of the law. This is due to the cancellation of the basic amount as it has been a temporary scheme in which EU State aid approval for the last part of the basic amount expires at the end of 2019. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill and I should like to welcome Mrs Ida Auken and say that the Radicals also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031100605	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031100616	Thank you for the floor. Denmark has worked its way up globally in the field of green energy and climate, and together last year we managed to reach a broad energy agreement, and we are very comfortable with that. We must continue to be the jackbaxon when world-class supply infrastructure is to be created, and that is why it must also be flexible so that we can continue to ensure the green transition. The additional rules for the regulation on the internal market in electricity give the Minister greater room for manoeuvre. The draft law allows the Minister to lay down the rules for derogation from the requirement of balance responsibility for smaller renewable energy production plants. At the same time, the draft law allows the electricity transmission network to be modified in order to be appreciated. On the question of the high-voltage lines, where some of them can be dug down, the proposal must also ensure parallelity with the rules for the cable-laying of the electricity transmission network. The agreement also sets a definitive end to aid schemes for electricity produced in decentralised cogeneration plants using natural and biogas; the end of the basic amount will be at the same time as the end of the state aid authorisation at the end of the year. However, the agreement also ensures that parts of the PSP agreement can be implemented so that we get closer to the full phasing-out in 2022. The necessary phasing out of the PSO agreement will benefit both the general consumer and the business community. The Left can support the proposal as it has been put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031100748	Thank you. And no one has asked for a comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031100753	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we warmly support the green transition, and in this respect there is no doubt that the electrification of society is crucial, especially on transport and on heat. In some of the areas which can be difficult to ensure a green conversion, the way forward is the way forward. And that is why it is also crucial that we ensure that the Danish electricity network works well, both nationally, in relation to being delivered, so that there is a stable supply, but also internationally, so that we can trade with other countries around the world and thus ensure that Danish industry and Danish consumers always have access to as cheap and stable electricity as possible. This proposal merely continues to be a sensible practice. There is then a need to lift it into the legislation, because there will be an EU directive that establishes the sensible practice. So if Denmark can show the rest of the European Union in this way what is common sense, then it is a beautiful exception to the general rule of what emanates from Brussels. That is why we can support the proposal that has been put forward here because it emphasises the balance of responsibility that is necessary, but at the same time it creates the flexibility that will allow smaller producers to still deliver the green energy that we need, in particular. We would just like the Minister's assurance that the derogation will then also be an exception that will only be applied to a limited extent and that we will get a notification from the Ministry, perhaps once a year, about how this exception will be used, so that we can also make sure that the practice we have today continues and there is no real change when the bill is adopted. The second part is about what electricity transmission looks like around the country. There is no doubt that a great many people feel bothered by the main cables that transport the flow through the country. During the summer we have seen a lot of people from Holstebro in particular and from the south being quite rightly dissatisfied with and concerned about how the new cable layings are going to affect their everyday lives, their properties and of course also the value of their properties, because it is not the fairest thing to look at. 700 citizens are specifically affected, and only half of them are actually compensated. So we in the Danish People's Party are pleased that there is now an extension of the possibilities for energy networks to change the installations and that it will also be a legal parameter that one would simply be beautifying for the sake of the citizens who live in the areas where the cables are drawn. So all in all, it is a good proposal that, on a market-oriented basis, brings Denmark closer to the green transition. We like that in the Danish People's Party, so we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101102	Thank you. And the next is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101120	Overall, the bill is intended to ensure that Danish legislation complies with the electricity market regulation and also translates parts of the PSO agreement. In the SF, it is important that there is a balance in the electricity system, as it is a way of promoting renewable energy, but also that there is also the possibility that smaller suppliers to the grid may be exempted from balance responsibility. In addition, we are also very pleased that the possibility of taking account of the appreciation of the transmission network is being extended. So SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101204	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101218	The Enhedslisten can support the bill. Sometimes, when we have such changes to the applicable law, we look at how much changes are made here and whether there are other things that should actually be handled. And in connection with the plans to establish Viking Link and the 500 power masts that will then be built in Jutland, I have noted that among neighbours and citizens' groups there has been a dissatisfaction with the lack of openness about those processes. I do not really see that this is an element that here is what you should say: what you should say is dealt with in full. This gives us the power to cable and to beautify some areas. But to what extent are the citizens guaranteed in these cases, where there are projects that go in the opposite direction and where you get more high-voltage poles up? So I would like to know from the work of the committee whether that criticism can be met in this legislative proposal or it is something that should be included in a future legislative proposal. As far as Viking Link is concerned, we have also discussed whether it is reasonable for a minister to have such great powers to be able to accept projects of more than 200 million on his own. kr. If it is the case that Energinet has to expand its wiring network, whether it is with power masts or gas pipelines, then we actually have some processes where the ministerial competence is very large. Here you can then have projects of over 10 billion. kr., which a minister can just sign and implement. Is it not reasonable that there could be a limit on the amount that was lower? But of course this requires a change in legislation on the conditions that Energinet has. And I think there might be good reason to change that. There may be several aspects about Energinets, because they can only actively relate to the expansion of gas networks and electricity networks, and with the climate agenda we have, there may be a need to have a much greater focus on whether the storage of energy may in some cases be something that needs to be combined with an expansion of the grid. So I really think that there is a need for more change in legislation than this particular bill is proposing. But we can certainly get an answer today as to whether the Minister intends to come up with another amendment relating to Energy Networks, in order to make conditions more modern and more climate-oriented than just having such a state company that can only roll out infrastructure in the form of multiple lines. We can therefore support the bill as it stands, but we have these issues which I am not sure will be addressed in the amendments to this bill, but that would be an option. But with regard to transparency, it could be fine if it could be merged here. With regard to the changes in competences, it is probably another legislative proposal that we need to bring forward, but the Minister will have to comment on that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101530	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101538	Thank you. The point here with L 16 deals, on the one hand, with the establishment of rules under the authority of the Electricity Act and the possibility of derogation from the requirement for balance-of-payments liability. And here, of course, we are thinking of the smaller plants, for example. small solar installations, so that in Danish legislation we ensure that we are free from the balance element. In addition, this draft law, L 16, takes into account cable installation with the electricity transmission networks. These are the plants that we see must be around in Denmark, and also those that we already have, where in particular nature areas you get the opportunity to cable it to a certain extent, and it makes very good sense that we bring it here. Finally, the draft law must ensure that the provisions of the Electricity Act on price in the form of basic amounts for electricity produced by decentralised cogeneration plants with natural gas and biogas cease to expire in 2019. The Conservative People's Party supports L 16.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101706	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101714	Thank you. Several rapporteurs have already mentioned what a good bag of mixed candy we are dealing with here. First of all, this is about implementing parts of the winter package, and it is gratifying to see the good Danish MEP, who has played an active role in the winter package, in this Chamber today. It is important that we think together when we think about the spread of renewable energy sources, and that is one of them. what we are doing with the changes that lie here. I'm not going to go through everything because it's been done so thoroughly by others. But the alternative supports the different parts of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101752	Thank you. And then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101801	Thank you. The bill contains a number of good changes that the Liberal Alliance can support. And I have to say from the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party that New Citizens also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101815	Thank you. And that is the end of the rapporteur's line, so now it is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031101824	Thank you. I'm here with a recommendation note for the Left Parliament Group... I don't think it was for me. It's up here. I thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The proposal contains three main points. Firstly, we must ensure the correct implementation of the new electricity market regulation, which has been adopted as part of the Clean energy for all Europeans winter package. Overall, the Winter Package must strengthen the green transition in the EU and thus ensure clean energy for EU citizens. The starting point of the new electricity market regulation is that all actors in the electricity market must be balance responsible. This means that the actors must be responsible for the imbalances they create in the electricity system. However, the regulation provides for the possibility of exempting smaller RES installations from balance-of-payments liability. There are now small RES plants that are not balance responsible, and with the bill it will be possible to maintain that practice. Perhaps this also said to Mr. Mr Messerschmidt, that this is really a continuation of a practice we actually have. This means that their conditions will not deteriorate when the Electricity Market Regulation enters into force on 1 January 2020. These are typically small autoproducers, which either emit very small quantities of electricity online or none at all. Therefore, there is a limited risk that the production from these installations creates imbalances in the network. In addition, the Danish provisions are being cleaned up as a result of new rules in the regulation in order to ensure that the legislation does not contain rules that are contrary to the regulation. Secondly, the draft law provides for cable-laying of electricity transmission networks only for reasons of appreciation. The draft law does not deal with concrete cable layings, but ensures that agreed cable laying projects can be implemented. The amended rules do not therefore aim to allow Energinet to carry out any change in the electricity transmission network solely for reasons of appreciation. It will be only in exceptional cases that changes can be made to the transmission network solely for the sake of appreciation. These specific cases will be limited to political agreements on this and to the funding decided on politically. Thirdly, a provision of the Electricity Act, which deals with price increases in the form of a basic amount for electricity produced at decentralised cogeneration plants with natural gas or biogas as fuel, is repealed. It follows from the 2004 Energy Agreement and has been reaffirmed by the Energy Reconciliation Group in 2014 that the basic amount is a temporary scheme. The scheme cannot be extended in its present form as a result of the updated EU State aid rules. The State aid authorisation therefore expires at the turn of the year and the legal basis for the basic amount is therefore abolished by this draft law. This is therefore an orderly repeal, so that we ensure consistency between the Danish legislation and the expiry of the state aid authorisation. Once again, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and I look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102149	Thank you. Then there is a comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102155	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on what we have discussed in the past in connection with a consultation on Viking Link, where we had a dialogue on how much authority a minister should have with regard to those big construction projects that are a little under the radar. And then there has also been a criticism from West Jutland of the processes that have been around the planned mast setup. Is this something that the Minister is going to take the initiative on, in other words, that there will be changes in the legislation on the two subjects?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102230	I have no comment to make in connection with this specific legal procedure. However, I would like to refer to the very thorough consultation which the rapporteur summoned me to the other day, where I think I even answered those questions quite in detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102243	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102305	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102329	Thank you. The bill that we are discussing here today acts, among other things. strengthening the security of gas supply. The draft law ensures that the natural gas supply law is better aligned with the EU gas supply security regulation and specifies that responsibility for gas supply security is a shared responsibility between authorities and market players. The need for this clarification has been updated by the gas supply security situation in connection with the renovation of the Tyra field, which will challenge Danish gas supply security for a number of years. There is therefore a need for clarity about security of supply, i.e. it is a shared responsibility which both authorities and market players must contribute to maintaining. In addition, the legislative proposal involves the implementation of amendments to the Gas Directive, which means that there must be clarity as to how gas links between EU countries and third countries are regulated. The amendment to the Gas Directive thus ensures that new gas pipelines between the EU and third countries are also covered by the rules of the directive and are not negotiated bilaterally between third countries and individual Member States. The aim of the draft law is also to clarify the rules on expropriation access for gas infrastructure in order to make it clearer what rules apply in relation to upstream, transmission and connection of biogas to the gas network. The draft law will thus also help to make it simpler to introduce biogas into the gas system. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and I should like to welcome Mrs Ida Auken and say that the Radicals also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102458	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102504	Thank you for the floor. A secure energy network and security of gas supply are increasingly a responsibility that goes across European borders. It is a common European good that benefits both businesses and citizens. Our common energy infrastructure system is the foundation for the wheels of our society actually running around. It is our security of supply that is the reason why we can turn on the heat and light at home, at work and in public institutions. In Denmark we have a very high level of security of supply, and we must ensure that this continues to apply in the future. The issue of security of supply goes across the EU. It is a common matter, both Danish and European. It is therefore important that there is better consistency between Danish and European legislation. Security of supply is increasingly not just a Danish matter. The draft law requires relevant Member States to take an active position on the regulation of interconnection lines to and from third countries. This is, of course, very topical in relation to yesterday's debate. The draft law brings Danish legislation more into line with both the EU regulation and the maintenance of gas supply security, while at the same time Danish legislation adapts more closely to the rules of natural gas in the European market. At the same time, the rules on the expropriation of gas supplies are being clarified, and this is, of course, about the fact that the wires can actually be placed in the ground and the regulations that are involved in this. It will continue to demand a high level of security of supply, which is why we need these things to work. Better consistency between Danish and European law requires a uniform common European approach to transmission links. This creates more equal market conditions and greater transparency in tariff prices. This benefits individual citizens and businesses in Denmark and in the EU. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102702	Thanks to the Left. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102710	Thank you, President. After all, we in Denmark are fortunate enough to have resources in the underground, which have financed our welfare society and which also has to finance the green transition far along the way, as soon as all parties here at Christiansborg agree. And that is why it makes good sense now to invest in an upgrade of the Tyra field, so that we can also get good Danish natural gas in the future, some of the most CO2 I have previously asked the Minister to perhaps declare Danish oil and Danish natural gas on an international scale, so that as a consumer on the market you will be able to choose the green choice when buying fossils because it is so that the green choice will also be the Danish choice. There is an obvious opportunity to promote Danish export interests. We are still waiting for the answer. Back to the proposal: it is basically about ensuring, when we import in particular from third countries, that there is coordination with our neighbouring countries and those countries in the European Union, in particular, with which we have common interests, and that of course makes good sense. When it comes to energy policy, it is all too important and too international to look at the Danish spectacles narrowly, which is why we obviously need to ensure that there is coordination with the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden and the other Nordic countries in particular, etc. That's what this bill's gonna put up for. It should also be borne in mind that the Danish gas infrastructure is still becoming an established case. Most of the infrastructure was built back in the 1980s. Then, in parallel with the fact that the infrastructure has been there, there has been a development of regulation in the European Union, which has created some technical imbalances. And especially in relation to the concepts of expropriation, this is being corrected in relation to upstream and transmission. This is good because it creates clarity and does so in a way, so it is also easier for foreign producers to handle the Danish market. So alone with the small remark and request that the Minister beat a little on the drum for the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102952	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031102959	The bill is an implementation of the amended gas directive. The purpose of the amending Directive is to strengthen a uniform approach to transmission links in order to strengthen security of gas supply. It is also particularly relevant to us when the Tyra field is being renovated. At the same time, the amendment emphasises the principle of joint responsibility, in which both authorities and market players bear responsibility for gas supply within their respective fields of competence; however, it does not mean a joint liability or collective responsibility. In the SF, we agree that there is a need for the various clarifications and security of gas supply, which is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103051	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103059	Enhedslisten also supports the bill. Now that we have a committee procedure, I think it is interesting to clarify a little more clearly what the challenge is for the Danish gas supply security, which is when it comes to renovating the Tyra field, because it is being made very technical here. So, is it a very large part of the Danish gas supply in Jutland, or what kind of geographical area is being challenged by the fact that we have a renovation of the Tyra field? So with this question, it is our intention to vote in favour of the proposal, but we would like to see more detail on what kind of a specific problem it is and how big it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103142	Thank you. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103149	Thank you. Bill No. L 17 is primarily about security of supply between EU countries and third countries. After all, this is a follow-up to the implementation of an amended gas directive, in other words a clarification of the responsibility of the transmission companies for the security of gas supply. After all, the draft law also lays down a clarification of the natural gas supply law, which provides expropriation access for connecting to upgrading facilities. After all, in Denmark we have more and more upgrade facilities that can be connected to the network, and in this bill we have the possibility of expropriation, so that the upgrade facilities can be connected to. This makes great sense, and the Conservatives support Bill No. L 17.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103247	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103256	Thank you. This is another one of these kind of technical proposals with a lot of different sub-elements. And as soon as we mention that this is also about the closure of the Tyra field, I could stand by and spend all my speaking time talking about the need to stop the extraction of fossil energy, which we also have to do in Denmark, just as we have to do throughout the world, in order to live up to the Paris Agreement. But this is first and foremost a clarification of the security of gas supply and the implementation of the directive, so I will refrain from saying that and simply say that we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103335	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103344	Thank you. After all, we are at the stage of a parliamentary term in which a new government puts forward all the legislative proposals originally drawn up by the old government, which the new government does not object to because there is common sense. That is why we have one debate after another here in the Folketing, where a very broad majority says they can support the legislation. On the one hand, it is really, really good that we agree on everything; on the other hand, it is also a rather tame political debate, I must admit. And now I would like to contribute to the tame political debate by saying that the Liberal Alliance also supports this bill and that New Citizens have asked me to say that so do New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103422	Thank you. As there are no more rapporteurs for the tame debate, it is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103433	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and comments on the draft law, and even though, like the previous rapporteur, I am also fond of a lively political debate, I think it is very good that we should stick to the factual, slightly dry content of this round. This bill contains three main points. First of all, the main purpose of the draft law is to implement the amended gas directive. Some Member States have administered and implemented Community rules differently than we have in Denmark. The amended Gas Directive has taken a position on this and is very much in line with current Danish law. The amended Directive ensures a uniform approach to transmission links to and from third countries. Cooperation agreements between the transmission companies and third-country companies must be notified to the Supply Control Authority, inter alia: to ensure fair market conditions and transparency of the tariff price. Second, the draft law clarifies the responsibility of transmission companies and other actors for the security of gas supply. We have a challenged gas supply security in the next 3 years during the refurbishing of the Tyrafelt. It is essential for me, as a minister, that the country's citizens and businesses should not be deprived of energy. Today, it is not clear who is responsible for security of gas supply, and that is why the legislative proposal will clarify the rules in this area. Energy networks shall not and cannot ensure the overall security of gas supply as a result of EU rules and because gas is primarily imported. The draft law states that both authorities and market players share responsibility for the security of gas supply. The specification should ensure the necessary attention on the security of gas supply during the period of the refurbishing of the Tyra field. In addition to the bill, the Ministry and the Danish Energy Agency are keeping a close eye on the country's gas supply security. Thirdly, the draft law clarifies provisions on expropriation in the Natural Gas Supply Act, so that it is clear that expropriation is provided by transmission and upstream and by connection of biogas to the gas system. The rules for connection of biogas have been unclear and administered differently in the municipalities of the country. It can create a barrier to the green transition. The clarification of the bill ensures a clear framework in the natural gas supply law for the connection of biogas to the gas system through a specified expropriation clause. In doing so, we should be able to avoid obstacles such as delays, unnecessary regulatory authorisation and authorisation processes. Finally, the draft law provides for an orderly clarification of the Agency's cooperation with energy regulators and minor editorial adjustments. Once again, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and I look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103729	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103752	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031103805	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are discussing here today concerns the implementation of parts of the energy agreement which all of the parties of the Folketing at that time entered into in June last year. More specifically, the proposal is about biogas and how we ensure as cost-effective a green transition in Denmark as possible. First a little prehistory: the current support levels for biogas come back from the energy agreement in 2012. However, the increase in biogas has since increased much more than was then expected, which has led to a considerable increase in state expenditure on aid. In addition, the cost of other renewable forms of energy has decreased during this period. Therefore it was also decided with the energy agreement last year that it was time to change the support for biogas so that Denmark's expansion of green energy can be made more cost-effective in the future. With this bill, new biogas plants will be closed down from 1 January 2020 on the five existing aid schemes. However, a derogation from this deadline shall be introduced for those installations which could otherwise be economically squeezed during the transitional period. In addition, in order to ensure stability of the economy for both beneficiaries and the State, the draft law contains a commitment model with support period and annual norm. In general Danish, this means that each beneficiary receives a guarantee from the State as to how long it can receive State aid, but for a total period of 20 years at most. At the same time, a ceiling on aid is introduced in the form of a standard for the maximum annual production volume for which aid may be granted. Finally, the draft law contains an element on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from biogas plants, which could risk releasing methane. More specifically, the bill establishes the legal basis for introducing new requirements to ensure that the amount of methane emissions from biogas plants is reduced. These new requirements will only come after the Danish Energy Agency has completed its current study on methane emissions from biogas plants. Social democracy is behind the energy agreement of last year and finds that the bill ensures a contribution to a strengthened green transformation of energy production in Denmark. That is why we support the proposal. And I would like to say to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radicals that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104026	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104032	Thank you for that, President. I do not want to go through everything that the previous rapporteur has gone through with an explanation of the substance of the proposal itself, but it goes without saying that we naturally support the proposal in its entirety. After all, as part of the conciliation circle at the beginning of the year, we agreed to stop aid for biogas plants on the current scheme, which will be joined after 1 January 2020. In addition, there are a lot of details that have been agreed, among others. A derogation for investment installations, so that it is said that it is of an expropriation-like nature if the installations are not met. As we see it in the Left, there are some ambiguities in the material that we want to enter into discussions with the Minister about, so that we are sure that this is the same thing we are talking about when we compare the documents from before the elections and after the elections. It may be wording details, etc., but it is something that we just want to get fully in place as part of the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104147	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104153	Thank you, President. As several speakers have said, we are dealing here with a legislative proposal which follows up the energy agreement of last year and which basically covers up a fantastic success. We have managed to drive up part of the green transition in relation to biogas, and this is something we should welcome. The success has become so great that now you pull a little bit on the reins and say that that must be enough, at least in the first place. We are, of course, in favour of this, as it is part of the settlement that we have signed. However, I think that in the hearings there are some interesting comments or objections which I would therefore also like to bring to the market here when we have our first reading. This concerns, among other things: on waste water plants which, after all, do not have biogas production as anything near their primary business. I note that the Minister, in his comment on the Wastewater Association, does not think that particular consideration should be given, but I cannot fail to note a concern that there may be some rather easily accessible fruits here in relation to the green transition that we miss, and therefore, although we are of course one hundred per cent on the goal of conciliation, I would just like to ask the Minister to follow it closely here. It would be silly if gas just disappears into thin air or otherwise does not enter the plant if it is a relatively small cost that is associated with securing it. Similarly, there are also some concerns from the district heating sector that I think should be listened to and focused on, i.e. whether you might be able to demand improvements so that you really get more for the money. I always think that's relevant. There is a danger that when you do such a very abrupt winding-up here, it is just the established installations that are allowed to stand, without there being an incentive to also ensure that they are completely up to date. Another topic in biogas, which I and the Danish People's Party think we should pay close attention to, is the smoldering concern that is south of the border in relation to how the aid is given. As Danish biogas production has become such a success, we have also begun to export quite a lot of it. After all, in Denmark we are providing production support, while south of the border in Germany consumption support is provided, and with the weak memory I have of EU competition law, one could imagine that a problem can arise when there is no mandatory reporting to Energinet when you export. It does not take a calculator to figure out that if you export to Germany on a production-supported system and then provide a consumption-supported system, you may be given twice support, and there are probably some people in Brussels who will see that as a little bad. Therefore, a thought that I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on could be to make the voluntary registration of bionatural gas certificates at Energinet compulsory and perhaps to impose on the seller a responsibility for the reporting of exports of bionatural gas certificates so that we do not find ourselves in a new situation which we had with the PRS 5-10 years ago. I think it's important that we pay attention to this from the start. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party is happy with the energy agreement we concluded last year and we stand at one hundred percent target for it, but I choose to mention these things because I think it is something that we should keep an eye on, even during the period that comes, when we hope, I expect to make new, broad energy agreements. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104621	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104629	The draft law is a follow-up to the 2018 Energy Agreement, of which SF is also a part, and which it is also outlined from up here, it is mainly about the introduction of a stop to new beneficiaries for the five existing aid schemes for biogas production and plants using biogas for energy production, as well as the introduction of a new aid model on the basis of a commitment model. In the SF we support an appropriate expansion of biogas production, but also the thermal gasification plants, and some of what we would like to see further clarified in the treatment is the concrete background to putting the support models for thermal gasification plants on an equal footing with biogas plants. Furthermore, the draft law also provides for new requirements for monitoring methane emissions from installations, and in the consultation note the Minister notes that a concrete model has not yet been established. Since methane is an aggressive climate gas, we would like to have specified in the forthcoming treatment how the Minister intends to implement these sustainability requirements and control requirements in order to reduce methane emissions. With these comments, the SF backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104811	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031104817	Thank you. I mean, this slowing down in aid for biogas should have happened much earlier. But that is not the responsibility of the current minister. It is, of course, the previous government that should have slowed down, just as it should have come to the conclusion that all this indirect agricultural aid, which consists of having such a high level of support for electricity generation from biogas plants, should have been reduced far, far earlier. We have simply received too little for the money, and I think it is thought-provoking here that we are in a situation where technology-neutral tenders can be kept with a support requirement of 2-3 cents for solar cells and land winds, so I guess we have a support requirement for 20 years and then we have some biogas plants where we now set the support down to 18 cents per year. kW/h. So we fully support the implementation of this slowing down. The legislative proposal here must also ensure that any construction projects which have been in progress and which have resulted in irreversible costs still have the opportunity to be implemented. We would like the Enhedslisten to see us have a farm with far fewer livestock, and that would mean that we should not have biogas plants all over Denmark for the large animal production that we currently have. I also think it is essential to have legislation that will ensure that biogas is used from our wastewater treatment plants. And there may be other positive effects than just taking energy out of the waste water that comes from households and industry. Biogasification can also result in the degradation of some substances that we would like to dispose of, so that we can have better overall environmental management than if we bring sewage sludge from sewage treatment plants onto farmland. Then I also think that there may be some aspects to getting more organic household waste handled in the best way. Some municipalities plan this to happen in a biogas plant, and I think it is important that we have legislation that gives priority to this if the municipalities choose it rather than a composting solution. I think there is reason for us to look further at biogas and to include more aspects than this draft law deals with here. We need to look at what kind of climate action plans are to be adopted at the beginning of next year. And here we are faced with this challenge of having an agriculture of 11 million tonnes of CO2 overall and on the long run is going to be a zero-emission society. And that requires that we take a completely different view of our agricultural production in Denmark and find good solutions. I do not see at all how this zero-emission society can be achieved with the huge animal production currently taking place. And therefore, it is dangerous to have conditions of support which, like supporting more biogas plants, support them. So this is a huge dilemma that we will have to deal with in the climate action plans. This slowing down that is happening with this bill fully supports the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105155	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105203	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have mentioned, this is an aid scheme that we are changing and re-setting. After all, the bill says that it will help to limit the annual government cost of biogas support and at the same time contribute to optimising the climate effect of biogas. What we are doing is that, with the amendment of the law, we are creating a 20-year support period in which we set a maximum amount of biogas. This means that, with our state aid, we have a leash in how much money we spend on this area in the future. The exciting thing about this is whether this is the last time we talk about biogas or whether it turns out that agricultural production here can be used quite differently when we think about fuels, by the way. This is an area that I think we are going to discuss very, very much in the energy reconciliation circle, and perhaps the animal production we have in Denmark can be of great benefit to us. As well as this debate on biogas, I expect us to have a broad debate on the exploitation of agricultural raw materials. Perhaps agriculture in relation to their own CO2 we can support L 39.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105336	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105343	After all, we are also involved in the energy conciliation, and in this way, of course, we also support the implementation of the conciliation that we ourselves have been involved in. But I think there have been some very, very good comments both from Mrs Signe Munk and from Søren Egge Rasmussen, which is one of the things we need to talk about in committee on this issue too. For it is clear that it is not the end of talking biogas when we talk about this very thing about how we will make wise use of it in the future and do not support the way our agricultural production, for example, is done, with a large, large animal print. So we think we're gonna talk more about this. I also think that there are a number of consultation answers that I have been reading through, which also point to something that we need to touch on in relation to the committee's examination of the proposal. But as a starting point, we support it. And then a call for us to continue talking about biogas, including in the negotiations on a climate action plan, because we need to make wise use of these things so that we can become a net zero society, preferably in 2040. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105452	I'm sorry, I just gotta turn off my iPhone. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105509	We in the Liberal Alliance agree with what has been said here from the platform, and we also support the bill. Exceptionally, we also agree with what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that this bill should have been made earlier because support for biogas has been too generous. And we also agree that the reason why this has not happened in the past has probably been an interest in supporting certain professions which feed, among other things. by producing biogas and we think that we have also been critical. We would have liked to have helped put an end to this earlier. Then there has been no support for this in the assemblies we have been in, but now we are doing it, and we are pleased about that. I should also say from New Citizens that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105556	Thank you. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and then it is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031105606	I thank the rapporteurs for their comments and comments on the draft law. The bill implements those parts of the 2018 Energy Agreement that address the future framework for support for the use of biogas. In the 2018 Energy Agreement, all parties in the then Parliament agreed that by 2020 a stop should be put to more new plants being able to access the current aid scheme for the use of biogas. It is not an indication that biogas is bad; on the contrary, it is because biogas is a great success, but also a costly one. The support for biogas is very high compared to the support level for renewable energy from wind and sun, where the necessary support rattles down in these years at a rate of zero. Furthermore, the current aid schemes for biogas are designed with an open treasury in goose eyes, where aid is claimed if the criteria are met, regardless of how much has already been paid. That is why there was broad political support for reducing costs. At the same time, the agreement provided for a pool of 240 million. kr. In addition to the previous developments, some further development has been made. The aim of the draft law is therefore to slow down the growth of the State's support costs for biogas, as new plants that enter into operation after 1 January 2020 will no longer be eligible for aid under the existing schemes. However, the preparation and establishment of new biogas plants and new biogas use plants takes a long time. It has therefore been crucial that a stop does not pull away the carpet under installations where irreversible investments have already been made. The Energy Reconciliation Group had to meet twice on 8 February and 4 April in 2019 to get the rug nailed under these plants, where large investments had already been made. As part of this, it was also agreed to finance part of the exemptions by writing down the pool for new biogas plants of 240 million. kr. The Danish Energy Agency has carried out a preliminary assessment of which projects appear to meet the criteria for exemption. This inventory shows that, unfortunately, the pot for new installations appears to be written down to zero. So all the money is spent. If this assessment turns out to be true when the landowners after New Year's • if the bill is adopted • must submit evidence that the dates have been respected, then we must probably face up to the fact that there are no more funding for new biogas after 2020. It will be examined whether, as part of the climate action plan, there is common sense in the continued expansion of biogas. We will have plenty of opportunity to discuss this politically. In this context, it is worth noting that the draft law provides for a requirement to limit methane emissions from biogas plants. Methane is up to 25 times worse for the climate than CO2 Finally, it is also worth highlighting that the bill gives all existing plants for the exploitation of biogas a guarantee of support over a 20-year period, as it is known from other RES schemes. So the blanket is also nailed here. It should also be noted that the level of aid will be continuously assessed in order to avoid overcompensation. As mentioned, the proposal is an implementation of the 2018 Energy Agreement, which all parties except one are behind. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the proposal in committee. The rapporteurs here today, I think, have mentioned a number of relevant issues that need to be clarified, and of course I and the Ministry are happy to contribute to that. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110001	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110030	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110043	The bill we are discussing here today is about the Register of Conductors and is of a technical nature. There are several elements in the draft law that I would like to explain. First of all, there is the question of preventing us from ending up in a situation where the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply is in danger of granting illegal State aid in the transition to the new and more efficient Register of Conductors, for which a unified Parliament voted in 2017. The cable owner's register is a register of our buried infrastructure. They can be electrical cables, district heating pipes, sewer pipes, natural gas pipes and antenna cables. The owner register helps contractors to obtain information about the pipes and cables in the ground at the place where they are digging and who owns these pipes and cables. The meaning of the Lead Owner Register is therefore in good Danish to prevent contractors from digging pipes or cables over to nuisances for society as a whole, or that the same path should be dug up several times within a few months, because work has not been coordinated. Two years ago, it was decided politically that the Lead Owner Register should be further developed so that contractors can find the relevant information digitally in the future. And in order to give the cable owners time to get ready to provide this information, a transitional period of 31⁄2 years was introduced at that time. Subsequently, it has become apparent that the law was then merged in such a way that during the transitional period the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply could risk granting illegal State aid. This could happen if, during the transitional period, a private operator would compete with the Ministry to receive and redistribute information on buried pipes and cables between contractors and cable owners before the Ministry, as planned, receives this as a regulatory task and thus obtains the monopoly on it. We must, of course, avoid this situation, and we do so with transitional provisions, which means bringing forward the authority's task to apply from 1 January 2020. Another essential element of the bill is to adapt the 2017 amendment to the EU Personal Data Regulation, GDPR. Social democracy supports the bill. And I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110254	Thank you. Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110302	Thank you for the floor. I do not want to go into the more technical part, because Mrs Paulin has done well. We can say that this bill is, of course, about companies and public institutions, state and regions and municipalities taking advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation. And the institutions I have just mentioned, together with our former Left Government's common public digitalisation strategy, contribute to laying the foundations for a strong, secure and secure digital Denmark. The bill helps to make it easier for the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply to comply with the Data Protection Regulation, and the work of the Ministry will become less burdensome with the entry of the bill and simplify the bureaucratic work in connection with the publication of also grave queries so that things can be coordinated. It is not the task of the State to act as a service provider in competition with private individuals, and that is also what we have just heard, but we would like to see this amendment to the law and the registration of cable owners ending up as a state service, and that is how it is now. Wireowners will also be taken into account with the bill. Their work becomes easier because the Ministry can publish the digging questions in a way that makes them more accessible to the cable owners who would have to carry out work. Grave queries have been publicly available since 2015, but due to the Data Protection Regulation there has been no legal basis for presenting this data. That is why there is a need for a clear legal basis for presenting this data, which is why the draft law will also benefit cable owners. The Left may vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110444	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110451	Thank you, President. When you are the son of a structuralist, you have heard many you and curses across the dinner table, because during digging they bump into cables and other good things in the ground that are not exactly identifiable. Therefore, not on behalf of the family, but on behalf of the Danish People's Party I can say that we are pleased with the simplification of the rules that is being proposed here, so that you get a combination of wiring information in the Lead Owners Register, so that extradition can take place quickly, within 2 hours it must be possible to work with and from one place. This is very sensible and, of course, we can support it. Having said that, I would just like to mention one of the critical consultations that has been held, namely from Gentofte, Fredensborg, Furesø, Helsingør and Hørsholm municipalities, where there is concern about what the privatisation of supply lines will lead to. A problem arises as to whether it is counterproductive in relation to the law. I have also taken note of the Minister's reply, but I would just like it to be repeated here, for the sake of the Minutes, when the Minister is given the floor a little later, so that it is clear from the debate that the concerns that have been raised by the relevant North Zealand municipalities have been addressed. So with that pious wish, the Danish People's Party can back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110630	Thank you. Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110640	The SF supports the draft law as it stands. After all, it is a technical and administrative bill that intends to streamline working procedures and create a uniform digital solution for the provision of information on the grid, and several rapporteurs over here have described why it is both smart and good. So we support the draft law as it stands, and I should like to say hello. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110718	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110723	Thank you. It is a good thing that we should not have many legislative proposals like this, in other words a legislative proposal which will ensure that something we adopted two years ago can be implemented. This can be the most boring bill in the Assembly Assembly Assembly, and Enhedslisten can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110741	Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110746	Thank you. The primary purpose of L 40 here is to implement the joint public digitalisation initiative that the previous government has been in full swing with. What we are doing here is that we get a wired system where the IT system makes that in future, when we are through the 31⁄2 years of transition, we have a fantastic overview of how it looks with our wiring network in the ground. Many wasted resources have really been spent on wiring networks that have been dug over, but this helps to prevent, and it helps to ensure that we have an overview of what lies of wiring networks in our common soil. At the same time, this means that all the resources so far spent on waiting for a digging permit will now be minimized so that within two hours you will have to be ready to start work. This will provide an opportunity for the companies that are waiting instead of waiting to get started quickly and for us to save plenty of resources on L 40 once we have everything up and running. The Conservative People's Party supports L 40.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110927	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110933	The Liberal Alliance also supports L 40 for the same reasons that we have heard before. I have to say from New Citizens that they also support L 40.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110944	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031110949	Thank you, President. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on the bill. With this proposal, the government supports the continued work of digitising our society, in this case in relation to the supply sector and the wires, cables and pipes that are central to this sector. In 2017, the Danish Parliament, with the support of all parties, adopted a draft law amending the law on registration of cable owners. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is of a legal nature and aims to ensure that the 2017 legislative amendment can be implemented as intended. Denmark has a good basis when it comes to documentation of the buried infrastructure. We have had a Lead Owner Register since 2005 and the use of the Register has been increasing over the years. The proposal provides a basis for the further development and modernisation of the Register of Lead Owners. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply has the necessary means to receive and provide digitised and compiled wiring information. This is for the benefit of digging actors who plan to perform digging work in the Danish underground. The bill does not impose additional requirements on cable owners or digging operators, but ensures that it will be possible to obtain uniform wiring information within a few hours through the Lead Owner Register. Quick access to uniform digitised and compiled wiring information will bring significant financial gains, both to private and public players. The Ministry has received few but positive consultation responses to the bill after the public consultation. I also feel a positive atmosphere in this Chamber and I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the legislative proposal in committee. I can tell you in particular, sir. Mr Messerschmidt, that the questions that were asked have been dealt with, and I share the honourable Member's view. Morten Messerschmidt's assessment in relation to the possible concerns that might be but are not there. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031111158	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031111213	Then we have to get to work on the next item on the agenda, and that is the question No. F 3, but we are just taking a little break because the rapporteurs need to get up in the front row, so we need to get the technology in order. Then it looks like we can start the question. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 5 November 2019. First of all, there is a reason for the question, and it is from the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031111423	Thank you, President. Brexit is now one, if the President allows the expression, neverending story. Nevertheless, there was some clarification the other day, as the House of Commons has now approved the agreement submitted by the Prime Minister. And although many who follow the whole process may be left with the impression that it looks somewhat messy and unclear, it is important to remember what it was that actually led the British to make the landmark decision to resign from the European Union. It was, in fact, a fundamental dissatisfaction with the way in which cooperation in Brussels is running, dissatisfaction with the fact that people are not being listened to and that when you reform it is only going in one direction, namely towards more EU. It is as if there is a problem on the continent, yes, the solution to the problem is always to create a new Union: if there are problems in the energy sector, then it is an energy union, there are problems with the banks, then it is a banking union, etc., etc. The solution is never to stop and see whether the regulation that has been made by the European Union may not have the support of the citizens. That is why, if, hopefully, there is a proper way for the British to leave European cooperation, it must inevitably call for reflection, especially from those parties and politicians who have brought Denmark into the middle of this quite unpopular political system. Of course, not everything in the European Union is unpopular. Nor is everything in the European Union that I or the Danish People's Party oppose; there can be a lot in relation to free trade and environmental regulation, etc. that makes sense. But it does not change the fundamental trend towards an ever closer union, which eats more and more into the policies of countries' foreigners, the right to guard its own borders and into the social policy of the countries, and where there is a situation in which successive ministers are sent to Luxembourg again and again to find out what the law is like and then come back and say that faith and laws will conform to it. I would say in relation to the whole democratic humiliation that the EU system has developed into too poor, too bad, calling for a reform of cooperation. And allow me to say that when brexit becomes a reality and when brexit becomes a success, the issue of the European Union's willingness to reform is not just a question of listening to the citizens, but a question of the survival of the European Union, because if you do not reform it is going to go away. So in those words, I would hope that the Foreign Minister will dedicate us to the thoughts he may have about how the European Union can and must be reformed in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031111735	Thank you. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031111744	Thank you, President. First of all, let me make it clear that there has hardly ever been more support for the European Union among the Danes than there is today. In fact, everything suggests that brexit has reminded the Danes of everything they will lose if we did not have EU cooperation: prosperity, growth, influence. It is more clear today than ever that the internal market and the EU's free trade agreements with a large number of countries outside Europe create growth and jobs in Denmark. Brexit has reminded us that the internal market actually means fewer rules and less bureaucracy, not more. This means that our companies must deal with one set of rules instead of 28 and one set of standards instead of 28, which means that we do not have customs officials, that we do not have customs procedures, export certificates, veterinary checks when we act across borders within the European Union. All this is clear now that Britain is preparing to introduce its own rules, standards and customs procedures, employing thousands of customs officers, inspectors, other officials. It leads to more bureaucracy, more trouble for both companies and citizens when you choose to dismantle your links with the world's best integrated free trade area. Brexit has therefore only confirmed what was already my starting point, namely that EU cooperation is fundamentally positive for Denmark. Our prosperity, our security and our freedom are guaranteed on long stretches through European cooperation. According to the polls, the Danes also agree with this. However, support for the European Union must not become a sleeping pillow. Firstly, not everyone in society has benefited from globalisation. Some have only felt its negative consequences without taking part in the benefits. We are experiencing increasing inequality and increasing greed. Secondly, developments can quickly turn back. History shows that every day EU cooperation must re-deserve the confidence and support of citizens. The government will work for this, and that is why the European Union must give priority to this, and the European Union must focus on this. Our starting point must be to deliver concrete results for the benefit of citizens and businesses, which are needed, in areas that really matter to citizens and that make a real difference to people. We must show that the European Union exists for the sake of its citizens and not the other way around. I think that is really the key to what the questioner calls popular cooperation. EU cooperation must be close to the citizen, and it must be grass-rootsly anchored, and the popular consultations in which the Folketing has also been involved have helped to ensure this. They have helped us to identify the areas where citizens see the need for solutions and where EU cooperation can contribute. My own experience from public hearings and the public debate in connection with the election campaign is clear that the Danes want the European Union when it comes to politics and tackling the real challenges that people face in everyday life. However, the public debate has also confirmed that priority must be given to and focus on this issue, and we can, above all, ensure this through the negotiations on the EU budget, which will provide a framework for the work of the European Union over the next seven years. I will come back to that in a moment. In practice, this means that we must always be aware of where the European Union has added value. This is particularly true in areas which no country can cope with alone, where each of us is becoming more and more effective by being united. I have mentioned the internal market, on which the Danish economy and jobs are deeply dependent, and I have mentioned the EU's free trade agreements, which are of great benefit to Denmark. For example: is the assessment that Danish exports of goods to South Korea have increased by approx. 7 billion kr. Since mid-2011, when the EU-South Korea Free Trade Agreement entered into force. Similarly, Denmark's exports to Canada increased noticeably after the entry into force of the comprehensive free trade agreement between the EU and Canada, which means, in concrete terms, that more Danish jobs are created and that there is greater welfare. The EU also has added value in other areas. Many of the concerns we face today do not know the limits. Although the problems arise in the world, they quickly reach Denmark if we do not act. This applies, among other things, to: pollution, climate change, crime, international tax evasion, the exploitation of cheap labour. In practice, this means that national solutions are not always enough. Because the problems are cross-border, so must the solutions, and European cooperation here is extremely important. This does not, of course, mean that everything that happens in the European Union is automatically good or right. The European Union is a framework for policy and, within that framework, we are really discussing political content. Denmark must work hard to draw the political content in the right direction. We must fight for what we think is best for Denmark and Europe and, of course, we must refrain from when we do not agree. For the government, the course is clear: we want a more social Europe, a more green Europe, a Europe that benefits its citizens and where people are put before the market. Let me give you some concrete examples of how we are going to follow that path. Firstly, the European Union must be drawn in a greener direction, also in order to draw the rest of the world along. It is of no use if Denmark is the only country to implement ambitious reductions. Therefore, the EU must be climate neutral by 2050 and significantly increase its reduction targets from 2030 from the current 40%. 55 per cent. The original Coal and Steel Union must become a climate union and the EU must take a global leadership role on the climate agenda in order to lead the way. Secondly, we also need to work together in the European Union to avoid new waves of migration. The 2015 crisis is not finally resolved. We must deal with problems in other parts of the world, such as: trigger migration to an unsustainable extent. We are doing this, on the one hand, by contributing together to the development of Africa, and we are doing this by working together to help refugees and asylum seekers in the neighbourhood and along migration routes instead of here. Together, we must strengthen the borders of the European Union and ensure that people with unfounded asylum applications are sent home as soon as possible, and in the long term we must ensure that they are rejected before they reach Europe. These are important steps towards a more humane and fair asylum system through the European Union. Thirdly, we must ensure fair taxation in the Member States. The race to the bottom of corporate taxation must be stopped, and the tech giants too must of course pay a fair tax. That is why we support a common tax base and a minimum rate of corporation tax in the European Union. It is, of course, the corporation tax and stopping the race towards the bottom, which is the basis for us to have our welfare societies in European countries, to pay our hospitals, care for the elderly and schools, and, of course, the big companies must also pay their fair tax on their earnings. We must also fight against social dumping and for justice, decent working conditions and welfare. Freedom of movement for workers must not become a back door to exploitation, abuse and greed. Workers' rights and conditions must be raised to the agenda of the European Union. I have mentioned that in many areas the European Union offers more value, and I have also explained where the government will give priority to EU action, but it is clear that there are also areas where the European Union has to do less, because there are areas where the countries do it best themselves, and there are areas where the European Union should not play a role at all. I do not believe that there is an easy solution. One might think that the EU is too full, but it is quite another matter to agree on where the EU should fill less or not fill at all. Having said that, however, there are two things that we can and must do in the future to ensure that the European Union only fills where it provides added value. Firstly, we must fight for a tough budgetary framework for the European Union, which forces the European Union to prioritise and focus on areas where the European Union can deliver solutions that really make a difference to people. And we do. We are doing this by working in the negotiations on the future EU budget for 2021-2027 for a tight budget of 1%. of the EU budget, which refocuss resources away from traditional, old policy areas such as agriculture and cohesion and towards priorities such as migration, climate and research. I know that this effort is widely supported by the Danish Parliament. Secondly, we must always be aware of where it is that the European Union must play a role and where the countries do the best themselves. We simply need to be better at prioritising and focusing, not just in the toast speeches, but in everyday life, where we make the many political decisions that together define what the European Union is and does. Fortunately, this is an agenda with which we are not alone. After all, the outgoing Commission invented the expression big on the big things and small on the small ones, and that is precisely our philosophy. The previous Commission actually delivered on that agenda, at least in part. We saw a marked reduction in the amount of legislation and the forthcoming Commission has sent out clear signals that it will continue along the same path, and I am pleased about that. Let me conclude by stressing that there are also areas where the European Union should not fill anything at all. There is no reason for the European Union to interfere where national solutions are sufficient. There must be room for us to be different where it makes sense. There must be room for each country to set up their systems in their own way. In short, the European Union must really live up to its own motto: we must be united in diversity. I therefore see it as a very positive signal that the future President of the Commission has stressed that the Commission will respect the Scandinavian model of collective agreements, including the Danish one. The government will follow this work closely and ensure that Danish models and interests are taken into account in the future too, but we will also proactively help to look for alternative solutions rather than just wait and react defensively to EU initiatives that we do not like. For all experience shows that one gets the longest by being experiential and by seeking dialogue. For me, there is no doubt that EU cooperation is fundamentally positive for Denmark, that the European Union and pan-European solutions create added value in a world where borders are becoming increasingly fluid and that the European Union is our primary guarantor of peace, freedom and prosperity. The Danes are basically in agreement, but we must not let their support for the EU become a sleeping pillow; on the contrary, we must always take a political stance on what is going on and work for a slender and citizen-close European Union. We must constantly fight for the European Union to keep up with and solve the major challenges that matter to its citizens and that are best solved together. We must constantly work to ensure that the European Union prioritises and focuses within the tough budgetary framework, and we must always be accountable to our citizens and ensure that the European Union earns our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031112945	We thank the Minister. There are brief comments, and first it is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031112955	Thank you, President. And I would like to thank the Minister for his kind speech before he became a minister, namely in the election campaign as a European Parliamentarian we had this summer. It was certainly not a speech that reflected the country's overall concern; I think it was more of a socialist speech. But of course the Minister has to do so. So I would like to ask: when the Minister says that the European Union must be big on the big things and small on the small things, and that there are even areas where the European Union should not fill anything, can the Minister mention just one area that the European Union has given up over the last few years, what are we going to say, 40 years? Just one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113045	I would just like to point out that we have a few different conditions here, which is why there is only one question in one minute for the rapporteurs. I didn't get to say that. It's just so we know there's no line again. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113057	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I would say that it is very important for us in Denmark to stand together to pursue an active and progressive European policy. It is in our interest as a country, and I also hope that the Danish People's Party will be involved in this and in solving the challenges faced by citizens in their daily lives. What I mentioned was that we live in a world that is more and more connected, among other things. It is important that we work together with the other European countries in order to solve the problems that exist, so that everyone benefits from the globalisation that is taking place in the climate struggle, and so on. I think it is important that we set a limit. Well, we have, for example. a well-functioning Danish model for the labour market, also with the fixing of wages through agreements. This is one of the things that we stand by on the part of the Social Democrats. And, of course, that is where we want the European Union not to interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113145	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113147	Thank you. You might almost wonder and ask, if not Mr. Knox? Morten Messerschmidt perhaps ought to have written a playback in his question rather than a slimmer EU, because that's what you keep hearing him speak for. In fact, following on from the question that has been asked here, I think that we should be careful not to plunder when we talk about the European Union about being big on the big and small on the little things. In other words, does the Minister agree that there is always an asymmetry associated with our cooperation, i.e. that what can be great for us today is not necessarily great for the young unemployed in Greece, who have no prospect of getting into work because of any of the policies that Denmark wants to remove with its priorities in relation to the budget negotiations? In other words, the Minister understands that cooperation is also about the others and not just about ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113243	Thanks to Rasmus Nordqvist. I certainly do not think it was a matter of plunder to give priority to being rigidly focused on where European cooperation can provide added value for the countries that are involved, and where is what we ourselves, nationally, actually best solve the tasks that we are facing. I think that is a very important priority and an important part of being big on the big issues and small on the small issues. When it comes to solidarity in Europe, it is clear that this is an important agenda, and European cooperation is also based on solidarity between countries. I think it can be said that the countries that have been part of the European Union have seen this basically since enlargement... have seen a gigantic rise in prosperity and a social boost. Take a country like Poland, our neighbouring country, which has been part of the internal market, and it has really increased their growth and prosperity and thus also welfare; whereas countries outside the EU • let us take a country like Ukraine that had the same level of prosperity, if you go back in time after all is far behind today. So, yes, we need to pay attention to solidarity • that is an important part of what we need to work together on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113341	Then it's Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113344	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the Minister's speech. I am particularly sensitive to the part about the Danish model in that it should be in a fair way and that we should retain the Danish model. For that is one way in which we have democratized part of our society in Denmark: that we have an influence on our agreements. But experience does not show a positive picture. And that is why I would like to hear from the Minister how this is related to the fact that the European Union is interfering so much. After all, we have seen it a long time ago with our right to strike and in 2017 with respect to the right to strike of air traffic controllers, so again and again, and in relation to our benefit system and to some things that are, of course, at the heart of our welfare model, in our labour market model. So there I would like to hear the Minister: does the Minister not see that there is a conflict in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113437	We must, and this is the clear position of the government, be vigilant about the Danish model in the labour market, which is the best model to ensure that the benefits we get from, among other things. the internal market and that the trade we have will also be distributed between workers and companies, etc. in relation to the progress there is. It's really important. The pay and working conditions that we have achieved through collective agreements in Denmark are also something we stand guard over, of course. So there is no need for the European Union to interfere. But we want to help lift the rest of Europe. After all, we are part of the internal market; we are linked in terms of pay and working conditions, the fight against social dumping, not only in Denmark but also in the rest of the European Union, and that makes it possible for us to take effective care of it. And companies that produce in another EU country under poor pay and working conditions are also a matter for us in Denmark. That is why we think it is important to include this labour market dimension in EU cooperation, so that it becomes an internal market where people are put before the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113535	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113538	I very much agree that a key issue in continuing EU cooperation is that there must be limits to how much the EU interferes with the policy of nations. The Foreign Minister says forward that the EU should not start interfering in Danish labour market policy, and I agree with that too, but I would like to hear: does the Foreign Minister agree with the Liberal Alliance that there are already areas where the EU is interfering in things in which the EU should not interfere? And will the Foreign Minister give some examples of areas where the EU is interfering in Danish relations in which the EU should not interfere?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113622	Thank you to the rapporteur. So, I think it is important to make it clear that EU cooperation is also a compromise between the Member States that are part of the European Union. After all, we decide jointly, and I know that the rapporteur, who himself has been a minister, knows how to make compromises. For example, on the part of the Social Democrats and the government, we think it is important to ensure that workers' rights are fully respected, that collective agreements are fully respected. We want it to be strengthened in cooperation, in other words ultimately. If a social protocol could be drawn up, it would be something that guaranteed workers' rights in European cooperation, so that freedom of movement and the ability of companies to compete do not overstretch the right to protect decent pay and working conditions, and there we can say that we have seen examples that EU legislation has not worked well, for example. on the roads and motorways, where lorries are driven around with drivers who are paid and work in conditions that are not in any way reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113724	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113727	When I hear the debate here, I am thinking of Jørgen Varnæs from Matador, who stands there and gives her speech as a conservative candidate for parliament; Danish women buy Danish goods to support the Danish worker. It is going to be such a national premise that we are discussing Community policy, and it may be very good, but it also signals how we have dug ourselves into a hole in which we cannot discuss the European Union on a Community pretext. And that is quite fine, because we all want to safeguard the Danish labour market model. The truth is, however, that we have decided jointly and there we should remember that the European Union is never more than what we ourselves are doing to have the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. And when you have it and hence the free movement of workers, you also have to have common standards and discuss labour and labour rights in the European market if you are to ensure that freedom of movement also provides some form of security. That is why we cannot just stand there and talk about the Danish labour market model. What does the Minister think of the proposal that 3F has made on transport, which is indeed European policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113845	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113847	I'd like to say to Mr. Jens Rohde, in my reply just before, I actually also spoke about the importance of us generally lifting workers' rights throughout the EU, not only in Denmark, but throughout the EU. And it is important that, for example, The social pillar with its 17 objectives is something on which countries are measured. Are real progress being made for ordinary people? Do ordinary people benefit from the single market? Also in other countries? Or do they not? This is a really important issue and a task that we can share together in lifting. It's something we're together about. Well, listen, I don't see this as a zero-sum game. After all, EU cooperation promises the countries together. When we integrate our markets, as we have done, we will have higher growth than if we had had 28 different national markets. So that's why there's a common benefit from it. It is important, when there is a productivity gain, that there are mechanisms to ensure that it is then properly distributed between workers and companies. There we have a system in Denmark and I wish that the other countries also had such a system. So we are working on a social dimension in the European Union, which is about getting better and more well-functioning labour markets, so that we do not have an unfair wage competition in Denmark either. Because it is true that we are exposed to unfair wage competition when produced under poorer conditions in other countries. That is right, and I will also help to avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031113957	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to the debates and therefore also to the general rules for short remarks. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114013	Thank you, President. I was actually surprised to hear the Minister's reply, or rather not reply, to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. For how simple it would have been. Well, I think that if you were to take a case that most people have been able to see rolling out during the summer and that I assumed that the government did not think that the European Union should interfere, it could be the rules on maternity leave. In other words, we were at an embarrassing time when a minister, or indeed one of the members of the government, thought that such a reservation could be made for the rules on maternity leave. So it could be imagined that this would have been a rather easy response from the Foreign Minister to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. But we do not dare, because the idea of compromising EU cooperation in this way, that is to say, the very idea that there should be an area where it is actually thought that the European Union has gone too far, is unimaginable when you belong to the federalist circles to which the Foreign Minister obviously belongs. And that's symptomatic. When you ask an EU supporter to say if there is something wrong with the EU, the answer is: Yes. Then you list everything that is not wrong with the European Union: common customs rules, free trade, an added value, we must stand together to combat crime, help the climate and so on.; empathetic, touching and thunderous uninteresting posts. For which politician goes to work in the morning to say: now I do not want to change anything, but just defend what works? That is a poor approach to political work, Minister for Foreign Affairs. And it will be no less poor when you have a foreign minister who is so unambitious, so unengaged and obviously completely unrelated to the common people in the midst of a time when we actually have the opportunity to change EU cooperation. May I just remind you of the question to the Foreign Minister: what opportunities does he see for changing EU cooperation thanks to brexit? The possibilities seem to be zero. Not even one of the areas which this summer has been problematized by his own colleagues, he can be presumptuous to get over his lips. It's poor. It is not many months since we had an integration minister who returned home with red ears from Luxembourg after losing a case concerning the Danish family reunification rules. Not even he can get that over his lips as something that should be a purely Danish matter. It's poor. Not even in the labour market can he get over his lips to mention the Vaxholm case, which was a huge knuckle to the Danish and Swedish for that matter the trade union movement. It's poor. Basically, I have to say: it is a sad process when you are so grazed into a blind ideology, where section 1 is called: the European Union is good. And Article 2 states: In the event that the EU is not good, Article 1 will enter into force. I do not think that is the line that the Danes want, not to say the Europeans want. I believe that most Europeans are sick and tired of being hounded around by judges, officials and Commissioners whom they have never met, whom they have never seen, with whom they do not share any soul with, and for which they may have never voted at all. And how sad it is that, now that the British are actually showing the way to freedom, democracy, growth and genuine free trade, we are going to miss the opportunity in this way. The Foreign Minister's own head, the Prime Minister, dared to say what was wrong with EU cooperation this summer, and dared to say that something was absolutely wrong. But over in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs one is apparently not united in diversity, no, but fossilized in diversity. And it's sad. It is sad for the debate on the European Union, because it seems to be so incredibly impeccable that it is only a matter of standing up for all the good, but not of changing what you do not like. And it is sad because the project which the Foreign Minister seems to be carrying out at his bosom with the greatest love will thus break. It will crack when the British get anchored, are given the freedom to make free trade agreements with economies that, unlike the euro zone, are actually growing and growing in the world, are given the freedom to ask their people what rules they want to live under. At the same time, we have a European Union which does not change anything else, at least not in the way the citizens would like, but is still moving in the wrong direction. Because what will happen then? Yes, there will probably be people sitting around in Denmark, in Sweden, in Finland, in the Netherlands, in Germany, in Greece, in Spain and saying: why is it that we are still chained away to the bureaucratic democratic corpse that Brussels is, when we can do much better by doing as the British do? So now that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not seem to have the imagination to even repeat his own colleagues' political positions for fear of getting involved with Brussels, I dare say this: Brexit, once it becomes a reality, is a unique opportunity to give the EU competition and resistance, and I think that is exactly what the citizens want. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114513	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114516	Thank you, and thank you for a dazzling and committed speech. I just want to say that, uh, it's quite understood that, uh... Morten Messerschmidt believes that Denmark should do as the British do? The British have shown the way out of the European Union and we must follow in their footsteps. Is that where the Danish People's Party stands today? Because in that case, we have news.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114539	No, there is no news in the sense that we are still waiting to see what the British end up with. It was now last week that the House of Commons voted in favour of the agreement. We shall then wait for it to come into force. And then I think you have to wait a few years. Well, it is clear that Denmark is in a quite different situation from the British. It can be said that almost as we have lost territory, the British have expanded their last 400 years, so we are in a slightly different position of strength. But it is clear that the British emancipation from the European Union is a hope that something else can be done. And that's where the British are supposed to lead the way. I am convinced that in a very short time, when the British are given back the power, free trade agreements will have been drawn up, both with the former Commonwealth countries, which are so much more interesting than most EU countries, but also with the Americans and also with the Canadians, Mercosur, NAFTA and so on. And that will show the way for a completely different way of making policy, including economic policy on the world stage, than to be in that euro zone, as Mr. I guess Jan E. Jørgensen prays to a five times a day.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114640	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114642	Oh, I don't. Is there anything at all in the development of the United Kingdom to date, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt seems to give him evidence of this very fantastic description of a Nirvana, must one understand as the British will approach within a few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114706	You could say that the difference between Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and I think I see it in a longer perspective than Mr. Jørgensen. Jan E. Jørgensen. I simply refuse to regard the British as losers. I refuse to believe that the British, with their stiff upperlip, are going to be kissed by an EU that is doing what you can at all. I simply refuse to believe that a country which has been able to crush Emperor Vilhelm, Napoleon and Adolf Hitler will also be bullied by people from Brussels. So, yes, I have a rocky belief that in just a few years' time the British will be able to sing "Rule Britannia" in security policy, economic, geopolitical and in all other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114741	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114743	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for a speech worthy of Nigel Farage and it would not be a compliment if the rapporteur were in doubt. It would also be unexpected). I'd like to hear about this popular thing you're asking about. The rapporteur also mentions the undemocratic fact that the Commissioners who are here have not been voted on. Does this mean that the rapporteur will be in favour of democratizing the election of Commissioners, for example, so that there are direct elections to the Commission for Europeans?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114811	This means that the political power, which today unfortunately lies within the Commission, we want to return to the Council. It will also be much simpler, because the Council is democratically composed. So, instead of having a political Commission, we want to remove the political power of the Commission, take it to the Council, in other words, as we used to know from the 2nd and 3rd pillars, and then make sure that the Commission alone becomes a civil service unit to ensure that the rules are complied with, rules which, in quantitative terms, must therefore be considerably smaller than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114838	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114839	But then I think I will need to hear more about the popular cooperation that the rapporteur is talking about, i.e. a slightly closer definition of what is meant. Is it, then, just a played EU with more officials and a more right-wing populist political content that the rapporteur wants; is it what is meant by popularity, or is it really popular? For it will not be to make less democracy, but rather more democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114905	No, I apologise, President, thank you, where the rapporteur sees the European Union as what is meant to prevent what he calls right-wing populism, so I feel that if a people wants to live under a regime, a government, a political party, which is what the rapporteur calls right-wing populist, yes, it is a free democratic election. There we should not have a European Union which in this way exercises censorship, in other words goes in and restricts the opportunities for countries, for example. in the labour market, immigration policy, border controls, social policy and family policy to pursue a policy that the rapporteur may disagree with. That is actually what democracy is, that is to say, to accept people with whom you disagree if they have the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114940	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031114943	Yes, as long as this majority does not trample on the minority. You have to keep that in mind. After all, democracy must not be measured by the right of the majority to do what you want with the minority. That is why referendums are so disastrous because it leaves the minority, which is typically 48%, on the platform without minority protection. This is a different discussion. But I think it's interesting that sir... Morten Messerschmidt says that there is nothing new in that the Danish People's Party believes that the British are showing the way. In the radio programme that we have both been doing for a number of years, I have very often asked the Danish People's Party what they really think about whether the British are showing the way and whether they should follow the British path. The answers have been extremely different, depending on whether you have asked Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, did you ask Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth or Mr. Søren Søndergaard. So I would like to have such a precise answer on whether Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes from his heart that the British have shown the way and that this is the path to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115049	At first I find it very touching to hear about the consideration of the minority. Perhaps the rapporteur will then have the opportunity to reflect on what minority protection was recognised after votes in 1972, 1986, 1993 and 2001, where those who wanted more EU were the majority, while the others were the minority. I'd love to hear a little bit about that. So in relation to what the Danish People's Party thinks about, whether we should follow Britain: Well that depends on what brexit is going to mean. Of course. As I mentioned to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen just now, we do not know what kind of agreement it is and what it will look like in reality, nor do we know where Denmark stands, but this is an historic opportunity to facilitate anchor in relation to a historically disastrous EU cooperation in many areas, so we have to use those opportunities. But the question debate we have raised today does not say that Denmark should follow Brexit. First of all, what opportunities do we have to reform the European Union? But with the very, very little ambition to reform anything that we hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I assume that it is even less with Mr. It is clear that there will be the most obvious alternative to finding other ways of working together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115153	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115154	For many years now, I have been arguing that this EU cooperation should be reformed, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt remembers when he sent a greeting to a certain national meeting to me, and I will be happy to explain that later. But it's just unclear. Again we get such a neither-or-answer from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, because one does not dare to say: yes, it was the right path for the British. But let's see. And, by the way, it is amusing to say that we must now see what the British are getting. Why is it that the Danish People's Party is so busy talking about Danish sovereignty and then depositing all its own influence and attitude in the British House of Commons? That is a contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115237	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115240	I am, of course, pleased that in the past I had to bother the rapporteur with being appointed to a parliament in which he might rather sit than this. Maybe it was a second choice. I'm not gonna be able to say that. When you hear the rapporteur's passionate speech that we, as Europeans, should commit ourselves and so on, and how suffering and almost petty and unspeakable the nation state is, you can hear that the rapporteur has really taken his place in the party he now belongs to. But in relation to what direction Denmark should take, it has to be said that as a small country it has gone downhill since the Kalmar Union we have to have something to adjust to, and there is brexit as the obvious thing to reach out for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115336	Thank you. I'll be brief. In this closed forum, I can say that I feel very well covered by the government in fact in all areas. I would just like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party of course also believe that in all areas the European Union has made Denmark richer and Europe richer and that we fully recognise that the global challenges that exist can only be solved through international cooperation, including the European Union, whether it is about migration or climate. We also believe, of course, that we should take as much account as possible of the nation states, and we note that the government is working to ensure that the Danish model, which is absolutely crucial for us, is also secured. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Radical Left and the SF, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the European Union has made Europe freer and richer and ensured peace between the Member States. At the same time, Parliament notes that Europe faces a number of cross-border challenges requiring joint and strengthened action: climate change, illegal migration and external border control, social dumping, tax evasion and negative tax competition, terrorism, growth and employment, and tackling conflicts in the EU's neighbourhood. The Folketing considers that Europe's challenges can best be solved by joint and strengthened action in the EU, and that in this context it is essential to ensure Denmark's maximum influence. At the same time, it is important to maintain respect for the diversity of the Member States and for established, essential elements in the organisation of society, including the Danish labour market model. Parliament calls on the government to work for a Europe that continues to deliver concrete results for the benefit of its citizens and businesses. At the same time, it is important that EU issues are regularly included as part of the daily political debate in Denmark. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115521	The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115527	Thank you, President. I would just like to hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur now whether he can come up with an example where the European Union should not have interfered, but where the European Union has nevertheless interfered. We did not hear anything about it from the Foreign Minister, who belongs to the same party, but who is of course serving the Queen and not the Folketing, so it may be that the rapporteur here has a different view. Perhaps the Social Democrat rapporteur can come in an area where the EU is interfering untimely, in other words where you do not want it to be just one.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115601	Well, there's more than one area. Morten Messerschmidt, too. There are areas where we cannot have what we want. When we engage in international cooperation, we cannot have what we want every time, but there are clearly areas where we are sorry about the majority that is or about the decisions that can be taken. So it's happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115617	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. The Morten Messerschmidt word? Can we make two brief comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115626	I am glad that areas can be mentioned. Could they be mentioned, in other words, could we be allowed to hear what these are, so that it is not just such an internal circle of studies in the Social Democratic Party, but something that we could also share with the other people or just in the circle of rapporteurs? I think that would be helpful. Perhaps it could also be used in relation to the issue that is actually at the heart of the matter today, namely how we change EU cooperation with the opportunities that lie ahead of us. If we are allowed to hear what problems the Social Democratic Party can see, could one imagine that something will be done about it as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115700	Well, sir. Morten Messerschmidt knows that there are others. in relation to family reunification rules and other things have been some things in which we disagreed with what has been there. And that, of course, is something we want to work on. So that's among other things. in the area that the previous government and the current government have some challenges in the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115718	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115721	When we look at this journey between Strasbourg and Brussels, will the rapporteur explain to me whether this is a sensible thing? Because if you meet some people who are standing with an EU tab in their hands and say: 'Oh, how amazing is that, you can ask them: 'Can you explain to me the sense of this traveling?' So I would like to ask the rapporteur: is this something that will be addressed in the context of a reform so that we can have a look at the possibility that the European Parliament can at least stay at one address?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115745	But as far as I know, it is the treaty that we have to do this, and so France will be able to veto, and I think they will. It's possible. But there is no Danish government, either the previous one or the present one, that thinks this is good. And I have also noted that the Prime Minister points out that this is one of the red tape that could be cut away from not paying too much money to the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115805	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Carsten Kudsk a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115810	I mean, because the citizens just don't understand it. This is equivalent to making a proposal saying that for three weeks, Christiansborg and Nyborg were in power for one week. Then people would scream like laughs. So it is important that we look at it, even if it is enshrined in a treaty. It is important for people to be reported to the French and told them that in order for this cooperation to work and people to understand this, we must at least be able to tell people that the European Parliament must stay at one address. Isn't that right? Is that not a way that the rapporteur thinks would be sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115842	Yeah, sure. After all, I noted that the Danish People's Party would have liked to have moved some of the Parliament's institutions out in the last parliamentary term, and it would then be at several addresses if it had become something. But yes, there isn't any government that wants this travel circus in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115855	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031115900	Well, that's kind of interesting. Well, now I really thought that it escaped very well with DF's policy. There's been a radio station paying a pretty high price for that nonsense. So I quite agree that this travel circus is incomprehensible, and it is basically also a scandal. It costs 1.5 billion. kr. Every year that travel takes place, and we who have sat in the European Parliament do not think, but what is interesting is that all parties always go to the polls to want to abolish that travel circus. Now I could look over at the Minister and ask: will the Minister then raise it in the Council? Did it leave it in the Council? When the Presidency of the European Union was held: was it then raised in the Council? No. Despite the fact that we in the European Parliament kept asking the Danish Government to raise it in the Council, it has been dropped off. Why? Will the Social Democratic Party ask its minister to raise this issue in the Council when it is so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120006	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120009	Well, I don't know if you raised it in the left, either, when you had the power of government and sir. Jens Rohde was a political rapporteur. But that does not change the fact that France has a right of veto on this. I don't think Germany is interested in it being moved either. But that doesn't change the fact that there has been no Danish government at all who thinks that this travel circus should continue. Well, I haven't heard any governments say that they think so. I just find it hard to see what you can do to change it, but I guess it's the German or French side that stops it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120030	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120034	But then you shouldn't go to the polls on that, right? I mean, there's something called a vote of expectation. And if it is the case that we are going to vote that we want to change it, and we know that this can only be changed in the Council, then we have an obligation to raise it in the Council. Now Mr. It is true that Lars Aslan Rasmussen does not know who else raised it in the Council. And we never know, that is, who raises it in the Council, because I know that you do not raise it in the Council, and I also know why. However, it might help a little if we had open ministerial meetings in the European Union so that we could expose that bluff there. Will the Socialists work for reform so that we have open ministerial meetings in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120115	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120118	In all the European Parliament elections and parliamentary elections that I have followed, all the parties have promised that they would do something and that has not happened, so I do not know whether to point the finger at anyone. One might have asked the Foreign Minister, when he was here, if he could raise the question, I think. I don't have the opportunity to travel alone. But nobody thinks this travel circus is amazing. What kind of minister raises it and when, and whether it should be the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, do you have to ask the ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120138	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120145	Well, it is interesting that the Socialist rapporteur also tells us that the Social Democrats think that the European Union is interfering in too much. And now we have a single example of it. I would like to ask in line with the question debate here: if it is a major problem in the European Union, we think it is • what does the Social Democrats think should be done about it? What can we do about the European Union, which means that the European Union does not continue to take decisions on issues in countries which do not have a cross-border nature and in which the European Union should therefore not interfere? What does the Social Democratic Party propose to do? We had a principle of subsidiarity which was put forward in the Danish debate in such a way that what the countries could do for themselves, the European Union should not interfere with the Treaty, but it obviously does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120240	After all, Denmark already has some reservations about EU cooperation. I do not think I said that the European Union is interfering in too much, but when you engage in international cooperation, you cannot get your way every time there is just that, that the other countries cannot either. That is the way it is when we work together, whether it is in the EU, NATO or the Council of Europe, we cannot decide everything ourselves, but we can influence, and there I think we are doing a great deal of work on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120258	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120302	But I am fully in favour of the fact that in the areas where joint decisions are taken, one can be voted down. I have no problem with that too. What is the question here is: which decisions should be taken jointly and which should not be taken jointly? As I see it, there is no doubt whatsoever that the European Union should not interfere in whether we have compulsory maternity in Denmark. Why should the European Union interfere in this? What is the concern of the people of Spain, how do we distribute our maternity leave in Denmark? Surely it is not a cross-border problem how the barssel is distributed in Denmark or in other countries. So how do we ensure that the European Union does not interfere with what the European Union should not interfere with?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120338	But we do that when we have forums in the Council of Ministers and elsewhere. That's where we're meeting. As far as interfering is concerned, I would just like to say that you can say that about all things here there may be some things that people do not want the European Union to interfere in. And we have made that very clear. We have also said so in relation to the reservations: we do not want new referendums. So Denmark is already exempt from some things in which the European Union cannot interfere, but of course there is something that will sometimes be against us as a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120358	Then it's Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120403	Thank you. This is a very interesting debate to listen to. I think I will just take note of what the Minister said about there being some basic principles about how we work in the European Union, and they are that we should focus on the results for the citizens, on solidarity and on added value, and I would also like to add the principle of subsidiarity. I hope that these are principles that will be implemented in future EU policy. I would also like to say that Conservatives can endorse the proposal for adoption. Of course, we would also have liked to have seen that perhaps there were other things than the Danish working model that were taken along, such as. respect for cultural diversity, but also that as many decisions as possible are taken closest to the countries and to the citizens. Of course, we are also curious to hear what the Social Democrats will do to try to make the European Union more popular? We do not think we should take for granted the momentum of the European Union. I think it is very important that there is greater transparency and involvement of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120509	First of all, I would like to thank the Conservatives for agreeing to the proposal for adoption. There is no doubt that there are some problems. Now, in Denmark, we have quite a high level of participation in the parliamentary elections, unlike many other countries, which may need to look more inwardly in relation to the interest in the European Union, especially in Eastern Europe and in southern Europe. But we'd love to take a look. One of the things that I think many people are responding to is some of this bureaucracy, and the Prime Minister has just given an interview that, instead of paying more, it might be possible to cut there, because that is one of the things that opens up to a great many voters.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120538	Does Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll want half a minute? No. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120547	Thank you. I'm actually a little curious to hear something more about what's going on with the people. For this issue of a leaner and more popular European Union is therefore something that can mean many things. There is, of course, the definition that Nigel Farage and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt comes along, which is of course a playful and weak collaboration. But public opinion can also mean openness, more democracy. And I would like to hear from the Social Democrats whether they support the idea of looking at how we can create an even more democratic European Union, in other words with more strength for the elected Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg, but also with openness in the Council and so on, which is something we have been discussing for many years, at least for the last four years, in the European Committee, where the rapporteur has also been sitting in the last parliamentary term. So what do you want in relation to this people, which I see defined as being open and democratic, in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120645	We are very much in favour of openness and there are clearly some problems in the European Union. But when we talk about what I mentioned earlier about how much Denmark should contribute, it is there that may be some disagreements, including in this Chamber. That is where we believe that 1%. We think that we can save some bureaucracy and look at agricultural subsidies. This is one of the things that might make it more popular: that it is not so bureaucratic and you understand why you spend money on it. And, of course, it is also about a greater interest, including in the media, in what is happening in the European Union. And there I think many Danish media also have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120712	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120717	But specifically: will you work actively, including in the Social Democratic Party, to create more open work in the Council so that we can see what is going on and thus also have a popular interest in it? Will we be actively working towards democratisation, which means that we are putting more influence on the European Parliament, and possibly also looking at the electoral law in relation to transnational lists, etc., which will actually create more popularity across borders? Or is it just the budget that we talk about when we talk about the more populous, from the perspective of social democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120752	No, it is not, but for us it is not necessarily more power for the European Parliament that makes it more popular. If you have a 13 - percent vote in some countries, it is like a congregation council election. It's not very popular for that reason. But we have nothing against openness, and that is clearly something we will be working for: it will be as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120805	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen and move on to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031120822	Since people at home have entered the parliament channel, perhaps by mistake, I do not really want to encourage people to turn away, let alone when we are discussing the European Union today. But I'm doing it now anyway I can of course wait until the debate is finished and I would suggest that you find HBO, which has a film lying down, called Brexit: The Uncivil War. The title is such a word game on a mix between civil war and then one, we should call the rude election campaign, and the film then documents the election campaign in Britain up to brexit and they, we should call them quite dirty tricks that the opponents of the European Union used. Lies on the side of red a campaign bus that the EU quota could fund the entire UK health budget. Lies that no less than 80 million Turks were on their way to Britain to steal jobs. And the film, which unfortunately is quite close to reality, is frightening, and you don't quite know whether to laugh or cry when you hear the no-side repeated slogan: "Take back control," that is, take back control. For the European Union is precisely about the cross-border problems that are completely out of control and where only a strong, slender and unified European Union can create some kind of control. Can Denmark solve climate problems alone? What about the refugee crisis? Illegal migration and external border control, international crime and terrorism? No. The EU's internal market is so interesting that it is an international power factor. If we want to, the European Union can help to bring peace to our neighbourhood. After all, the European Union has been the crucial factor in ensuring peace in Europe, because countries that are economically linked, where workers work across borders, do not go to war with each other. There is not so much good I can say about the President of the United States, Donald Trump, but he has at least created a European awareness that we need to solve our own problems more effectively, including military conflicts on the doorstep of Europe. The European Union must not be just a factor of economic power. We must also be a political factor. We have so much more to offer than Russia and China, but we only play a role when we can find a way to stand together. Brexit's been a wakeup call. Brexit has reminded us of the many good results we have achieved together in the European Union, and there was no domino effect where country after country fell like domino pieces and resigned from the European Union. On the contrary, we have seen the reverse, i.e. a reverse domino effect, where the pieces have not been overturned, but are now more firmly planted in the ground than ever before. Not least here in Denmark, where support for EU cooperation is increasing and where measurements show that no less than eight out of ten Danes want to stay in the EU. And that is also the result of the elections that we saw in the European elections. It was 80/20, and so it was in favour of the supporters' parties. The so-called People's Movement against the European Union proved to have neither a great deal of people nor a great deal of movement, other than a movement out of parliament. But we should be careful not to use that as a sleeping pillow. We need to learn from brexit. We must work for an EU that is big on the big issues and less on the small ones. We in the Left do not believe that it is time for major reforms or changes to the Treaties. On the other hand, the cooperation we have today must be made even better and more effective. And Denmark must assert its influence. This presupposes that we get close to the core that is where the influence lies: we get rid of the Danish reservations, so we also have something to have said in such important areas as defence and the whole legal area. The Danish People's Party refers in its question to a slimmer EU, and I have no figures on how many times I have spoken from this platform about the need for a strong and slim EU. However, we must be careful that we do not simplify the debate to be a question of whether we should have more EU or less EU. We need to have more Europe in those areas where it is relevant, namely cross-border issues, and then we need to have less Europe in those areas where individual countries can solve the problems well themselves. The countries of the European Union have a lot in common, but we are also different, and I do not see that as a problem. I see it as a force. We also have freedom of movement, which we must ensure is a movement after work and not after social benefits. And that is why, of course, the European Union must also respect the fact that we have chosen to adapt differently. We have a welfare system based on a social contract between the state and the citizen, which gives everyone equal and free access to everything from health, education and subsidies to all stages of life. And in return, we pay quite a lot in taxes. The Left would like us to pay less in taxes, but it is a model that we basically support, and other EU countries have other models, and they must be allowed to do so. So there's plenty to do. We can just say so much that when and if brexit becomes a reality, we do not think there is any likelihood that we on the Left believe that we should follow in the British footsteps.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121336	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121344	The latter, of course, comes as no great surprise when it comes from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. However, he says that the European Union must be more active in the large areas and less in the small ones. Once again, we see the same phenomenon that we saw in the Foreign Minister, that is to say that we do not mention what it might be for areas in question. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur could perhaps be a little bit specific. After all, he has already revealed where we need more: we must get rid of the reservation of rights, we must get rid of the reservation of defence, presumably also with the reservation of the euro. But where we need to hear something is where the EU needs to fill less and exactly how Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and his party intend to realize that wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121422	I think that is a good point, and I find it very difficult to point out such real areas where the European Union should interfere completely. There is, of course, church politics. It is very rare that we have a church minister in the European Committee. I think this has never happened because it is an area that is completely outside the EU's competences. However, we also believe that we should not have a social union in which the European Union goes in and sets rates of benefit or whatever it might be in the Member States; that is quite clear. There may be individual decisions that we oppose because there is a political majority that wants something different from what we want. That is how it is to participate in a political battleground. You can't always be right. But to say that the European Union must stay away from whole areas, we do not think we can. Now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself such a thing as maternity rules. In other words, we are looking at the question of whether it should be voluntary for families to share leave between themselves, but can one say that the issue of workers' rights is something on which the European Union should not have an opinion at all? No.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121530	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121535	That really surprises me, because would not the reality just be that the worker who intends to move to another country would have to follow the rules that apply in that country? In other words, it was we in the Danish Parliament who decided whether money for su or money for child benefit or money for maternity leave should be paid out. If a majority in the Folketing said that we reserve it for Danish citizens, then Germans and Poles and Italians could take stock of it and say: then we don't look for work in Denmark, because we are obviously treated less well. It could also be that they chose to say: No, we want to up to the high wages and perhaps at some point lower taxes, and what do I know? That's democracy. That is genuine freedom of movement instead of the centralist idea, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen shows off.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121615	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121618	No, I don't think it's extremely centralistic. It's about being treated equally. When you work in one country and pay the same tax as the other workers, you must, of course, also have a share in the benefits that are now in the country. That kind of makes a lot of sense. Then we can discuss how much you have to have if you have children in your home country. Is it reasonable for a child's check to be returned, which is in line with Danish standards, or should it be indexed according to the cost conditions in the country where the children are actually located? That's what we're talking about. But to say that one has to be treated equally when one works on the same terms and pays the same in tax must be very reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121652	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121656	Thank you. Once again, we hear that the European Union must be big on the big issues and less on the small ones, and I would like to say first of all that I think this is a very, very difficult issue and that it is a very easy phrase to throw away. In other words, when I talk to the citizens of Poland who have their civil rights violated, you know, for example. I do not think it necessarily has anything to do with us or is particularly cross-border • that it is an important matter for the European Union to go into. Then I could not hear the rapporteur say a little more about this, that we are not talking about it unless it is cross-border, but that there are also some fundamental values in our community that are the whole Charter of Fundamental Rights and so on. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not also think that this is in fact one of the areas where we need to strengthen cooperation in order to stand up for this because we see an attack on fundamental rights in certain Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121754	I heard it as if Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said "lgbtq" and stopped there. Well, there's one in there and one in there, isn't there? Okay, we're in complete agreement. There are some fundamental rights that all the countries of the European Union have to live up to, and that is what we are doing, among other things. on equality, that is, equality across sexual orientation, across gender, across race, across religion, ethnicity, etc. It is a fundamental part of being a member of the European Union to live up to those rules. And there, too, we have seen the European Union have a power and could exert an influence that has lifted equality in a number of countries. And we see this as something absolutely positive, even though it is not Denmark that has the greatest need in this context. So we also believe that the European Union has a role to play in raising, what should we call it, European values, human rights, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121843	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121848	When I said lgbtq., it's because that's how it's mentioned in Poland in these free zones you've made. In other words, it really is a very, very violent attack on Europeans and on the rights of European citizens. And when we talk about this, I just think that I get a little tired of the European Union being slimmer and more popular, because we are here with some citizens in our community, some fellow Europeans whose fundamental rights, whose everyday lives, are under attack by the national government of Poland. And it's just that I think we should also talk about that it's actually a deeper and closer cooperation that is actually needed because we see some of these currents. So that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031121932	Well, we are very much in agreement with that. Human rights are therefore a key issue. It is also part of the Copenhagen criteria; you cannot even become a member of the European Union if you do not live up to fundamental human rights. And it has to be some basic level that you cannot go down. We can then introduce more rights in the individual Member States if we want to. However, we are laying a certain foundation under the citizens of the whole of the European Union across national borders. We think that is very positive and some of what we are talking too little about. So thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122002	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122008	Thank you. I am interested in this issue as to whether we in the EU system have any treaty or, if it were a national context, constitutional restrictions on the regime, or whether we do not have it. This is the case in liberal democracies. There you have a constitution or constitution that limits what the regime must do to its citizens. And I thought that we had been promised a principle of subsidiarity in the Treaty of the European Union as a prerequisite for our joining the Union with the reservations we have. And I can only observe time and time again that the principle of subsidiarity or subsidiarity does not work in practice. For I can mention one case after another, where the European Union is interfering in things where it is certain that the problems are best solved at national level, and yet the European Union is laying down the rules for it. Does the Left see no problem at all in the fact that we have a principle of subsidiarity that does not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122116	To answer the question first: yes, we have among other things. The European Convention on Human Rights, which provides protection for citizens against abuses by the State. It is important, and it is fundamental, even in EU cooperation, even though it is the Council of Europe that is on the mark there. And then we have a principle of subsidiarity or a principle of subsidiarity. The problem is, of course, that there may be differences of opinion as to whether an issue is best resolved at national level or best solved at national level. I mean, what's given for Mr. Kim? Ole Birk Olesen and probably also would be it for me, is not for sure something that everyone else thinks is also given. That is why it is a daily struggle, but it is a battle that can only be waged and won in one place: in European cooperation, where we must, of course, argue everything we can, so that in the areas that the countries solve best themselves, there is no reason at all for the European Union to interfere. But the positive thing is, also as a result of brexit, that the European Commission has heard the signal and that the lawmill is running on very, very sluggish blouse, or what I do not know is such a mill can run on a blouse, but I hope you understand what I mean. In other words, the production of rules simply slows down because you have heard the signal that now you have to solve the important problems and not spend so much time on small things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122227	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122230	However, in Denmark we were promised Treaty protection of our right to decide for ourselves where it makes sense, that is, that this was not something to be discussed in the EU systems about making sense, but that the Treaty protected it for us. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, to take an older case: What is the argument that it is better to decide whether Danish children of 11 and 12 years of age can wear newspapers in Denmark, in an EU system than it is to decide this here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122304	I also think that this was something we could easily have decided for ourselves. It is quite a long time since the decision was taken. But I do not think it can be said that the fight against child labour, the setting up of rules on when children may work and how long, etc., is something that is completely irrelevant to the internal market. I don't think so. I can disagree with the specific resolution, but I do not think it can be said that per year. definition is something that is best resolved in each Member State. What if we had a Member State that said: with us children of 5 years of age must work 40 hours a week?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122337	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122338	I would also like to put the same question to the rapporteur in relation to this travel. It can be said that the European Union is built like a foundation on which a house has been built and where you can then see that the foundations and treaties are beginning to crack a little, because people think it is completely insane. And now you see, among other things, that Britain is going out and that there are many critical reports about this. Does the rapporteur not think that it would be a good idea now for the European Union to sit down and say: now the British are on their way out, and everyone thinks it is travelling crazy, and for us to understand this good project, was it not a good idea for us to have a look at the Treaty so that we could at least stay at one address?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122420	That's an excellent idea. It is in the European political programme that we have just adopted in the Left for our EU country meeting • it is an excellent idea. This is crazy, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, And that just doesn't mean that because we had to make a crazy decision here, we're saying that we're gonna get rid of this Parliament and the government, that they're just sitting around doing crazy things. And in the same way it is also in the European Union. In other words, I could say, if this travel circus stopped, would the Danish People's Party become glowing EU supporters?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122455	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122500	Well, it's nice to hear that the rapporteur can see the madness of this. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he would like to take up the Foreign Minister and the other parties and make a joint statement, sending a signal to the European Union and saying: you are now in the process of reform, and we would like to send a joint signal that this journey must be stopped. And then the French have to stop taking that into account. Was that something the rapporteur wanted to take the initiative on?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122525	I cannot just promise how that process should be tackled if necessary. I can't do that. But the problem is that it requires a treaty amendment, and once you open the way for a treaty amendment, everything can be put on the table. And we do not believe that there is a need for a major Treaty amendment and reform discussions right now. The Left believes that we should work with the European Union we have, although there are things that are deeply inappropriate, such as this travel circus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122546	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122553	One might wonder why politicians are so busy criticising the European Community, but that they do not want to be involved in a treaty amendment. I think it is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says is very interesting, i.e. the setting of a fixed framework for where it is decided. Then all you have to do is have a Constitutional Treaty like the German one. There is a very clear division of labour between the Länder and the Bundestag in Germany, and then there is a constitutional court. I think that would be an excellent way of building European cooperation, but then there will be words like federalism, and then all the people will be running everything they want and clothes can hold. I'd like to ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, whether we cannot agree that it is the Treaty that defines the areas in which we are concerned and that, in relation to the forthcoming EU budget, it is the Council, the Heads of State or Government, that has come up with a Declaration of Rome in 2017, from which we then build a budget and which we plan for future tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122656	I simply cannot tell whether there is some kind of trap in this matter. No? Good. Otherwise the answer is quite simple, namely yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122703	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122706	Well, that was good, 'cause I just wanted it confirmed. But that is what is being said in general terms. There's one thing I'm a little upset about. Actually, I'm happy enough for Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen's speech, but that's just before Mr. Jørgensen. Jan E. Jørgensen says welfare tourism. He doesn't say it, but he goes in, and then he starts trying to talk a little bit into that miser's ugly face, which I know is also in the Left in this respect. And then Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen anyway: Ah, you have to treat people right when they come here and pay taxes. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen says. How can Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen then argues that the people who pay taxes in Denmark, when they work here, should have a smaller children's check just because they have less costs in their country of origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122754	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122757	Thank you. Well, because it needs to be treated equally. You can have children in a country where the cost of day care facilities and diapers and food and prams etc. is much less than the corresponding expenditure is in Denmark. Then there are two points of view. Is it just that you then give them equal money, which will make the Romanian family of children much better financially, or is it just that you index, so that you pay an equal amount, compared to what the level of expenditure is in the two different countries? I think we can argue objectively for both points of view. We believe that the right thing to do is to index the children's check.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122836	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. We move on to Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. The Danish People's Party started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031122849	Well, that is a good thing, because then I will be able to continue on that track, in other words, to stress that it is the Treaty in force which determines how cooperation is to work and which areas are to cooperate in. There are two treaties. There is, of course, the ordinary Treaty, and then there is the Treaty on the European Community method on which we work. It lays down it very precisely. And what is my point about saying this is that if it is the case that you do not think it is a good thing, then you have to argue that the Treaty is being changed. It can be one way or another. That is why I would like to make the surprising point that I agree quite fundamentally with Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt. I very much agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in that the treaty should be changed. And you can also make the Treaty or reform European cooperation in the light of brexit. But that is where the agreement will stop. I understand that citizens do not feel secure about European cooperation when free movement does not at the same time guarantee workers' rights or protect against discrimination. I also understand the citizens when they become insecure if it is the case that European cooperation, as expected from European cooperation, cannot guarantee some form of internal security. I also understand that cooperation will become insecure if European cooperation fails to lift the climate policy and the climate agenda sufficiently ambitiously and does not get any decisions out of it and some economy behind it and some muscle behind it, which actually makes a difference. I understand that people are outraged by the travel circus. When you've been a European parliamentarian for 10 years, you know all about that. I have never attended a public meeting where I have not been given that question, and that is quite relevant. But that requires a treaty amendment, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said. And if you want to change that, why do you keep arguing against a treaty amendment? That doesn't make any sense. We are discussing the principles of the rule of law. We have European cooperation based on principles of the rule of law and, in order to become a member of the European Union, the Copenhagen criteria must be met. That is what the former Warsaw Pact countries had to do. And if we then find that they cannot, then we do not have the means to do anything under the Treaty, because the so-called Article 7 is such a kind of nuclear bomb, which no one will be able to look at and which requires a four-fifths majority in the Council, which means that there is always a country that can block. In other words, there is nothing we can do about it. We can't. We are not in a position to say it or do what we say we want to do in European cooperation. Why, then, do we not want to change the Treaty? We're discussing migration. Everyone says that the European Union must carry out the task. If the European Union does not then lift the task because there are countries that can simply veto solving these migration problems, then it is accusing the European Union of not being able to solve the problems, but it will not help to enable the European Union to resolve the migration challenges. When we discuss democracy, it is the same. The European Union is suffering from democratic deficits. Yes, but you could start by looking at whether to amend the EU Treaty so that we have a treaty that democratically gives elected representatives the right of initiative, ensuring direct elections to the most powerful position in Europe that you can possibly hold, namely the President of the European Commission. So why should it be such a strange game running between Heads of Government who have to decide? Why not let the people decide for themselves? At least then there are some Commission Presidents who had never been Presidents of the Commission, I can promise. And that's how we can keep doing it. What is wrong is that we always stand and lighten up the community and then say that it smells. We need to change that. So I would very much like to help reform European cooperation with direct elections to the Commission, the right of initiative for the European Parliament, fewer Commissioners. If you want the European Union to deal with fewer areas, then you must have fewer Commissioners, instead of maintaining that every country must have a Commissioner who must then sit and legitimise its raison d'être by making proposals where it may be doubtful whether they are part of European cooperation. We need to have open Council meetings of Ministers so that we can see that governments do not raise the question of, for example. The travel circus. And then there has to be a stronger constitutional court. So let us reform European cooperation and show that we take European citizens seriously. That is what is missing today. And then we must give the European citizens power instead of, as it is today, Germany and the big companies and all around us who are basically steering the agenda for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123410	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123416	Thank you. I think it's really nice to hear that Mr. Jens Rohde would like to do something about the moving circus, because now Mr. Jens Rohde was standing on the 'yes' side in the case of multiple treaty changes, and then one might ask: why has he not lifted that? In other words, precisely when we amend the Treaties, Denmark has had the opportunity to say 'no' there we have the right of veto. So instead of shooting at Mr. Carsten Kudsk and say that is why we need even more treaty changes so that we can have even more federalism, one might ask the radical party's rapporteur what else he or his party did in the past to raise the issue of the relocation circus the earlier times that the Treaty has been amended. That's where you had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123504	Now, for the ten years I was sitting in the European Parliament, I have helped send a letter to the Presidency every month that we wanted this moving circus abolished. There is, of course, a large majority in favour of this in the European Parliament, and also in the European Parliament. Morten Messerschmidt was sitting there, and it actually succeeded in obtaining a majority for it from having been in the minority succeeded in obtaining a majority for us to do so. So we've worked hard on that. We must also remember the history of it, and that is that it was enshrined in the Treaty, that the European Parliament should have its seat in Strasbourg or that it was placed on the record, after all, was a payment for us to have the four reservations. That is the true story, because it was part of a trade because there was a French President who also had a difficult referendum that he faced then, and when Denmark was going to have something, he should also have something. The truth is that it is a matter of the Treaty and there have been plenty of opportunities to raise it from the previous government too, but there you would rather have a pharmaceutical agency to Denmark. It was more important to fight for it than to try to offer it to France, so you actually had something to offer to the French to convince them to let go of Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123608	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123611	I can confirm that both Mr. Jens Rohde and myself, and indeed a large majority in the European Parliament, want this movement circus removed. But what is the matter is: why hasn't one at least the party, sir? Jens Rohde used to belong to ^ when there have been cases where you had the right of veto, so there brought it up? There are still plenty of examples in the Treaty of taxation, foreign policy, passport regulations, etc. Jens Rohde's changing parties have not proposed it. And it is just a little strange that we now hear that this is the way forward with Treaty changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123654	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123658	No, I have been arguing for a very long time now that we need to reform European cooperation. And I don't think there are any politicians in this house who have not long argued for the abolition of the moving circus in Strasbourg. I can't stand by and tell you what, sir. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen did when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs etc. It's kind of hard for me to answer that question. I can only say that I have been reasonably consistent in this, but I am not afraid to say, unlike many others, that we need reform and that we need a Convention so that we can change the Treaty, because that is the prerequisite for us to change, among other things. The travel circus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123737	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I would just like to make a general comment on the debate: we must be careful of the direct indictment. This is a little broad in relation to the debate we have had. Let's move on. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Balder Dark Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031123804	Thank you to the President and thank you to colleagues for this question debate. Three and a half years of lengthy and chaotic negotiations have now passed, and last week the British Government and the European Union finally reached agreement on the conditions for brexit. Last week the agreement was approved in a close vote in the British House of Commons, and Monday gave the British three additional months to get the legislation in place, so it looks at last that brexit is now becoming a reality. This is, of course, a very good opportunity to discuss what the EU should look like on the other side of a brexit, which is why today's question debate by the Danish People's Party is very appropriate. When you think the EU should be slimmed down, there is usually good reason to ask what exactly is meant by it. There are some who want all regulation away, so that we have an uncontrolled internal market; that is what the right and British Conservatives want. Their dream is that mass regulation disappears. We in the SF are in favour of the internal market. We believe that this has been a great advantage for European citizens, but, as in all other cases, the market must also be regulated in terms of social conditions, in order to avoid social dumping, in terms of environmental aspects, in order to avoid unfair competition in poor environments, and in order to take greater account of people, the environment and social conditions at all. The European Union is a co-operation and a political battlefield where different interests meet and one fights against each other. What is unique about EU cooperation is that in the past, when we were fighting each other on the battlefields, we are today in a negotiating room discussing fishing quotas and agricultural policy. But let us look at a few specific areas where the European Union could benefit from reform, even without costing the world. EU governments often work in secrecy. We in the national parliaments cannot follow what our governments say and do at the meetings of the Council of Ministers, and that is a problem. The openness, for example. In the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers is completely lacking, which prevents the national press from being able to inform citizens, and in this way it will be all too easy for governments to disclaim responsibility for the laws adopted by the European Union. Another point is the question of fundamental rights, where we have seen that it is too difficult to come after countries which do not quite comply with the fundamental principles of law, for example. as we have seen in Poland and Hungary. The European Union should have far stricter methods at its disposal here. Both discussions should be addressed by the Minister with his European colleagues in the Council of Ministers. Finally, I can say that the SF can support the proposal for adoption by the Social Democrat rapporteur. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124107	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124110	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it was a very timely speech that we heard here from the Socialist People's Party, in other words that we can see areas where the European Union is interfering in too much. Now, like Jens Rohde, I am burdened with having spent the last ten years in the European Parliament, where we have heard a lot about Mrs Margrete Auken, who, after all, draws the line of the Socialist People's Party. And I have never heard Mrs Margrete Auken say that there are areas where the European Union should interfere in fewer matters. On the contrary, she is very much in favour of removing the euro reservation and so on. etc. I would therefore just like to know whether the rapporteur can clarify whether it is the SF here in Christiansborg that draws the line or whether it is the SF in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124200	SF is, of course, a party that works together and which jointly takes the political line, and what Margrete Auken says in the European Parliament is very much in line with the policy that the SF puts in this area here at Christiansborg. In fact, I have no doubt about that for a moment. SF is not in favour of EMU; we still believe that we should be outside the scope of euro cooperation. In other words, we would very much like to have a talk about the defence reserve and the consequences there, and we would also have liked to have done away with the legal reservation. But there was no mood for it in the population, and we must respect that for the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124235	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124238	We can always cross-check quotes between the rapporteur and his colleagues and then Mrs Margrete Auken. But then let me ask: could there be an area in which it could be imagined that the Socialist People's Party wanted more reservations? So, one of the thoughts that we share in my party, the Danish People's Party, is that one should have a reservation on, for example. the welfare area, so that the welfare benefits to which non-Danish workers in Denmark may have access, are only agreed by the Folketing. So if you want to send a welfare check to Poland to children who live there, then you just have to have a legal basis in Danish law. Could such a reservation be something the rapporteur's party could consider?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124314	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the question. It has to be said that in the SF we quite rightly have a certain glorious history in relation to precisely reservations in EU cooperation. But right now, it is not part of our policy to propose new negotiations on reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124331	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124336	Thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Balder Mørk Andersen from SF • hyphen Socialist People's Party. I should like to ask whether you intend to exercise your influence vis-à-vis the current government in relation to the defence reserve and possibly ask the government to put forward a referendum during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124402	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. SF will, of course, throughout this session be in close dialogue with the government on EU policy, and it goes without saying that if we believe that this is the time and place to take up such discussions, then we will do so. At first sight, however, there does not seem to be a breeding ground for it in the Danish population, so that at present it is something that the SF will actively travel now and here. However, our position is clear and we would still very much like to talk about the problems inherent in the defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124435	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124438	The ground must also be fertilized. In other words, what we may have done wrong in previous referendums is that we have had to discuss legal reservations or reservations suddenly from one day to the next and that it is not a debate that has taken place. That is also why the proposal for adoption says that we should remember to debate these matters in the process. Will the SF take the initiative in a debate about the harmfulness of the defence reserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124506	SF will certainly take an active part in any debate that will be raised in these years and in the future on the problems inherent in the defence reserve. There should be no doubt about that. Every EU debate we welcome in the SF. In other words, the European Union is a binding cooperation and a fighting ground, and the debate on the European Union should never stand still, so we will be taking an active part in this throughout the period.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124531	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124537	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur has heard the debate that has taken place in relation to this travel, and I would like to know: what does the rapporteur think about the travelling in the European Parliament? And would the rapporteur explain what the rapporteur will do in relation to the MEPs from the SF who are sitting in the EU and what the rapporteur will do personally to send a signal that the rapporteur does not think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124603	In fact, I do not believe that I have ever heard anyone, either Danish MEPs or members of the Danish Parliament, express a favourable opinion on the great travelling circus in the European Union. And as Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned earlier, those who have been hardest hit by it personally are those politicians who, in fact, without having to blame all the problems surrounding this travel circus, are being held personally responsible for the fact that we are squandering EU funds in this way. There is no doubt that the SF would very much like us to have a much smarter travel model in the EU in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124638	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124642	So if the rapporteurs of the Left and the Social Democrats make a statement where you make a serious criticism of this traveling, will the SF also back up and say that it is a very good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124655	Thank you to the questioner. I cannot, of course, answer that in advance. It depends on the specific text, which will, if necessary, be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124702	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124705	Thank you for that, and congratulations on the debut on Parliament's platform for Mr. Balder Dark Andersen. I think it would be interesting to discuss equality if we were to try to go on the path of reform and thus go into what the debate is really about, namely whether we should reform European cooperation. Where does the SF see the possibility of creating greater equality, which must not only be about creating greater equality between peoples, that is, between individuals, but also between countries? After all, I subscribe to the view that it is a very growing and grotesque inequality that moves people to the extremes of politics because they become dissatisfied. Where does the SF see any opportunities for us to achieve greater equality between people and between countries in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124813	In a Danish context, over the years we have had a debate about poverty limits: reading levels of what to bid other people in the world to live for daily, weekly, monthly. They are people who are not able to pay their rent when, what to say, the bills fall out of the month. This is, of course, an agenda that could be interesting to look at in a European context too. Basically, the European Union is a political cooperation, and we are armed with workers and employees in all countries of Europe. We are opposed to social dumping. We are sorry every time we experience the creation of the working pool class in Europe. In these areas we actually have a common commitment and solidarity to all these people in the European Union, while on the other hand, of course, we also have ownership and a great commitment to the Danish model and the Danish labour market system, which we cherish very lovingly in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124921	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031124924	Now it was a very open question, and it could seem like a kindness. But that's how nice a human being is... I'm not supposed to be honest with you and admit it. And now the rapporteur was allowed to bathe a little. When I ask about this, it is because there are some particularly good instruments, such as: Mrs Margrete Auken is also very much in favour of this. I am very pleased to hear that SF thinks that Mrs Margrete Auken has some sensible views on this. What does the SF think of Eurobonds, which can, of course, increase equality between countries? What does SF think of a common tax base and minimum taxes? And what does SF think in Denmark about Regulation 883, which is after all about daily allowances?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125009	The rapporteur has 30 seconds to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125012	Thank you. After all, negotiations are under way on a large legislative package involving the issue of daily allowances, portability and minimum wages. It is too early now to go in concrete and talk about where it lands right in this situation. However, a final example of something that the European Union could at least be better at, and which might also help to counteract inequality, is to be much better at combating tax havens. There are, of course, billions of kroner that could come out and work for the benefit of the general public.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125044	Thank you, sir. Balder Dark Andersen. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125058	Thank you for the floor and thank you for raising this debate to the Danish People's Party. No matter what you think about the British exit from the European Union, it is a fact that with Britain's expected withdrawal we are in a completely new reality. With all due respect for Greenland's withdrawal in 1982, a British withdrawal will be landmark. Until now, one can almost say that there has been an illusion that it was only a matter of time before all European countries, or at least most of them, should be part of the European Union, and this has been expressed in many ways, when the European Union has declared itself to be the European Union with great self-confidence. The European Parliament has been set up, Europe Day has been chosen as its anniversary, and the European flag has been used to raise the flag. Some even talk about a common European army under the control of the European Union, and this is all in spite of the fact that only 28 of Europe's 44 countries are members of the European Union. It is as if the starting point has been that the European Union is the sun and that all the European countries such as planets have had to circulate around the European Union. However, the perspective of the European Union as the centre of the universe is not sustainable, especially if Britain finally resigns from the Union. Britain is not only one of the most populous and economically strong countries in the European Union, but also a regional superpower based on the UN Security Council. A Britain outside the European Union fundamentally changes the power relationships between the European countries that are in and those that are out. Let us take a very specific example: Europol, European police cooperation. Here the European Union has been the centre of the universe, while non-EU countries such as Norway and Switzerland have only been granted observer status, where they have been able to provide data, but have not been able to fully determine and sometimes have had less access to these data. The United Kingdom is one of the countries which provides the most information in Europol cooperation. If the country withdraws, it will seriously weaken Europol and the possibility of combating cross-border crime and potential terrorism in Europe. Can one seriously imagine that, in future construction, Britain could be eaten off with a peripheral role in line with Albania or, for that matter, Norway and Switzerland? I find that hard to imagine. In addition, there are also a number of other areas where there is a need for more flexible cooperation, where EU countries have already taken the lead, but where countries outside the EU actually find it difficult to participate on equal terms. That is why we believe that we need to look at European cooperation as something that can take place in several spaces. That is also why I welcome this debate today, which points towards the need to rethink how EU cooperation is linked. We simply have to do so if we want more and not less international cooperation, and it can be said that developments are already under way. We see several initiatives in which coalitions of willing EU countries choose to come together and to take the lead in areas where the EU has shown itself to be a failure to act. We see it, for example. with the four countries of Germany, France, Italy and Malta, who come together and make a temporary solution to the distribution of refugees and migrants; we see it when countries such as Austria, France, Poland and the Czech Republic will no longer wait for the EU and instead choose to take the lead by introducing a turnover tax on large tech giants; we see it when ten EU countries come together to establish tax on financial transactions. In this context, there is no doubt that we are actually at a crossroads and where it is important that we are involved where it is important that we are visionary and dare to discuss how this cooperation should take place. Will an increasingly centralist and top-level EU try to maintain its position as the centre of the European universe, or will the EU move in a more democratic direction and accept that European cooperation must take place in a way where countries have more equal influence where they are involved? In the Enhedslisten we have no doubt that we believe there is a need for more flexible and democratically anchored cooperation, and for this purpose we have the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Europe is facing a number of common cross-border problems requiring strong binding European cooperation based on a socially fair, sustainable and democratic basis. These are problems such as the climate crisis, tax evasion, the increasing power of multinationals, the race to the bottom of wages and working conditions, people on the run and the unequal and unfair distribution of goods in the world. The Danish Parliament notes that Britain's withdrawal from the EU challenges the idea that all European cooperation should take place within the framework of a centralist EU and points out the need to strengthen more flexible cooperation in Europe, where EU countries and countries outside the EU can enter into more equal terms. European cooperation in several areas. Following on from this, Parliament calls on the government to work for the opening and modification of a number of EU institutions, including Europol in particular, so that European countries outside the EU can also become equal participants if they meet the conditions. V 5.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125633	The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Then we have a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125644	I was listening to the speech and wondering what it really is that one wants from the Enhedslisten. Are you going to follow the Danish People's Party and Nigel Farage, who are talking about this depilatory and almost breaking up of the EU, or what do you really want? The Enhedslisten then says that we should not move towards a centralised and top-down European Union. No, it calls for democratisation: direct elections to the Commission, the right of initiative for Parliament, that is, much greater and stronger democratic cooperation. And this isn't the part about splitting it up into all sorts of spaces, so we're losing our cooperation as such. However, something I am also curious about when you talk about this with them outside the European Union is whether it means that the Enhedslisten strongly and actively supports enlargement negotiations, for example with the Western Balkans, and that we must of course start them now and here, even though the Danish Government has been standing in the way of accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125744	Thank you for the question. I am pleased that the rapporteur does not think that Enhedslisten's view of international cooperation is the same as that of the Danish People's Party. We think there are some important tasks to be done. Now I mentioned some of them in the rapporteur's speech, and the rapporteur mentioned earlier LGBT rights. But we basically believe that change must be democratically anchored, and it is not going to be the solution that we are going to pull things down on people from above. It is difficult and it takes time, and that is the case with democracy. However, it is important that we actually involve the various countries in the policy development that needs to be and the decisions that need to be taken better and more equally. It is also in the same way that when we see that there are some things where we are challenged in terms of being able to have local influence and opportunity for what the people themselves have said, it is contrary to this. And that's why we say that it has to be possible to open it up in several rooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125843	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125848	But what I just think I hear the rapporteur speak in favour of is, on the contrary, stronger democratic cooperation. After all, it is not doing anything from the top if you have a direct election to the Commission or if you have a right of initiative in the European Parliament. Then it is precisely a democracy that comes from Europeans. Therefore, I simply cannot understand the logic of Enhedslisten's relationship with the European Union, and I also know that this is something you are discussing very much at the moment. So is it not soon time to get out of this disintegrating thinking about the European Union and to strengthen the democratisation of the European Union so that we can work precisely for civil rights for all Europeans?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125925	Now I did not just get the answer to the last part of the rapporteur's previous question in relation to the accession of countries. We will be discussing it again, but I would just like to say very briefly that we think that a future solution should be found. There is no point in continuing to say that we are stalling and we are postponing it. There is no prospect of that. It actually helps to confirm this about being able to have democracy in several rooms, that you can work with people and that it isn't: either you're in, or you're out. We are precisely in favour of European cooperation, but for us the European Union and European cooperation are not the same as we want it to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031125959	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130002	I would like to hear the rapporteur elaborate a little on what is really meant by democracy. Now we hear a lot about the fact that as long as there is an elected Commission and elected Members of the European Parliament etc., it is as democratic as it can be. But one could imagine that perhaps there are some human common traits that are necessary for us to be able to talk about democracy at all, for example. Having language together? So how democratic is it to have to vote on a German candidate if you cannot speak German and understand what she is saying? Could it be imagined that it would require common conditions for looking at life in order to have a meaningful democratic conversation at all? Here in Denmark I lived for almost four years with Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister because I knew she was democratically elected, even though everything turned around in me every time I found it. But can you imagine the same thing with a Prime Minister who may have been elected in Malta, whose circumstances are not known at all as voters in Denmark? So could there be anything other than the purely formal shell that establishes a democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130107	I think there are several things that can bind us together. It can, for example, be done. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer has not been accepted by the Commission. So in relation to these democratic situations and the question of where to go and what to develop good solutions to, I do not think one can say that it is primarily the language that has a meaning. But it is clear that it is important that we understand each other and that we can enter into a democratic dialogue. However, language is a prerequisite for one's being able to talk to each other. But when we talk about democracy, Denmark has, and perhaps that answers a little to the former rapporteur's question, been subject to the financial pact, hasn't it? And we have seen people demonstrating for minimum standards and voting for welfare and more public investment. Nevertheless, we are bound by an economy which runs a reduction policy, and we think that is a democratic problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130204	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130207	I think we are in complete agreement on that. The Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten are probably on the set agreed on the analysis of the problems with the EU. What you can just get nervous about is what Enhedslisten will replace. In other words, do you belong to the swarms that say that we are all just Europeans and that we can therefore make completely free elections, where everyone then just votes, and that, as such, a deus ex machina has lowered a democracy on all of us? Or can there be some things that are necessary for it to make sense at all to talk about democracy, that is, that which is the cornerstone of democracy, that is, the nation state?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130245	Thank you for that follow-up question. Now I see myself as a citizen of the world, also as a half-Latin American, and I would say that the most important thing for us is that no decision should be taken, for example. in the European Union, which is going to be pulled over the heads of all of us. This will actually apply if it is an even larger circle. This will also apply if it is about the United Nations. So I think that I will see it more in relation to the principle of subsidiarity, and that, of course, gives the nation state an opportunity to maintain this principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130315	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130318	But then the truth is there is no decision on anything. I think that Mrs Victoria Velasquez should go into the Nordic Council for a few years, and then you can see what comes out of such a completely dogmatic • what is such a thing called unanimity cooperation. After all, European cooperation has not really developed until majority decisions were actually made. That's the truth. But peace be to it. I just can't figure out what Enhedslisten wants. Are you going to be inside the European Community or are you going to be outside? Is it supposed to be dissolved? And how does the Enhedslisten think it puts the nation state of Denmark if you leave it all to more spaces, so that Germany and France can really just divide Europe between themselves like the Russian Czar and Napoleon?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130425	In fact, I do not agree that, because you have to agree on something, there is no possibility of deciding anything. I think that we see a great deal of seriousness among many countries, which are actually beginning to want to take the lead in relation to the climate. I also mentioned a few other examples, such as: a fair distribution of the ratio of refugees to refugees. That is also why we think it is a pity that the Council of Europe and the United Nations are being weakened. Now the rapporteur spoke about European cooperation. We are passionate about European cooperation, but it is about it being on equal terms and that it must be democratically anchored. It may well be binding, but the European Union as an institution is in a different way. That is where we say we want to learn from it. Now we have a model in Norway, we have another model in Switzerland, and we would like to learn from what comes with brexit, and see: What kind of cooperation can we have? Because we don't think the top-down way is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130517	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130519	I actually still don't get it, and it's possible that it's my limited abilities that are playing out here. But can't Mrs Victoria Velasquez tell us whether you want Denmark to leave the European Union or to stay in the European Union and how you imagine that Denmark's influence will be strengthened by joining the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130548	Thank you for the question. I do not really think there is any doubt as to where the EU policy of the Enhedslisten is. We have said this many times, and I would like to repeat it again. We do not want to copy the chaos currently in Britain, but it is clear that we have a fundamental problem with the European Union, which is holding back what we can achieve. Now we mentioned before the welfare area, but we are also experiencing it in the climate area... we have had fluorine up in the debate here... and we see it in relation to our right to strike, and there is the European semester that interferes with our daily allowance and su. There's all these different parts. What we see is progressive green and sustainable European cooperation. We haven't really moved much there. But it is true that we have learned from what is currently happening in Britain.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130636	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130639	Thank you. I would also just like to try to get around to what Enhedslisten really means, because it is not quite clear to me. But I certainly got it out of it that we had to bring a lot of countries, but in some different rooms. And then I just have to ask what kind of room this is, which Mrs Velasquez imagines Denmark to be in. So, are we going to sit in the dining room where decisions are made, or are we going to stand out in the hall?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130709	I would like to see us in the room where we can take the lead and where we can help set a standard and inspire. So now everyone is talking about this table, where a lot of decisions can be taken, yet we are adopting an EU budget that does not give priority to the climate, which does not give priority to humanitarian efforts, which are going to devote more money to administration and which are going to devote more money to the military. These are just such things where you can ask: what kind of table are you talking about? What kind of influence are you talking about? And here Denmark has shown in many ways that we can actually inspire the green area in the same way as with our labour market model. So, even a small country like Denmark has been mentioned in the American election campaign as an example that can inspire. So there are a lot of ways to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130756	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130757	Well, I guess I'm getting myself orbited anyway... was about what kind of room we're talking about. It is then a space in which the policy of Enhedslisten is the one that gives direction to the whole of Europe, and we must then note that it must be outer space.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130811	No. In other words, we are simply in favour of binding European cooperation. And it is, of course, about the fact that, in relation to the refugee situation, that is to say the political conflict, which is in relation to the issue of where we should give priority and put our energies, we should, for example, do something about it. later discuss Turkey in relation to Syria... think it is important that we can play a role across countries. What we have a problem with is that when the decision of democracy, when the decision of the local people is thus trumped and the principle of subsidiarity is broken, we do not think that it is a democratically binding community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130848	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur was actually Katarina Ammitzbøll, but she is not here. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031130907	Thank you. It's so funny that we can go into this discussion and then discuss it from this premise about the slender and popular EU that the Danish People's Party is asking about. But what I can already understand in the debate so far is that there are a lot of different understandings of what people mean, depending on where you are sitting, even in the first row here today. There should be no doubt that Brexit does, of course, mean that we will have to look into how we will then move on to our good European cooperation. As I said again and again in the spring, when we were around discussing the European Union in the European Parliament elections, we believe that there is a need for much stronger cooperation in a number of areas, because we see a world where we are challenged by the fact that we have globalised the economy and so on. The first step for us is actually that we take seriously, that we are 500 million Europeans. It's the focus for us. It is not necessarily the 28, soon 27, nation states. So, the citizens of the European Union are the focus for us. That is why, of course, we think that a Treaty amendment should be made, in which we begin to discuss first and foremost what democracy in Europe is for us and how we can strengthen European democracy. We believe that, firstly, it is in the choice of the Commission, in other words, that it will be more direct, but also in the case of the right of initiative of the European Parliament, that transnational lists can be drawn up, because it is Europeans we choose. There should be no doubt that even when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was sitting in Parliament, it was not there that I looked for my political representation in the European Parliament. No, very often it was instead of a good green politician from Germany, for example, who actually represented me as a European in the European Parliament. We really do think that we have to look at what it is like to choose. We were sorry that there was no support for the transnational lists when it had to be decided before the elections last year. I hope that will change for the next election. We also believe that there is a need for much stronger cooperation in relation to a number of things, because we see an economy and a labour market that is more globalised. The idea that you have a job from the end of your education until you retire, which is one for you all the time and only in Danish companies etc., is being challenged. We see more and more people who actually work as freelancers as self-employed. We have a whole patchwork of employment relationships, and you can also experience that as a Danish citizen you can sit in Germany and work for a French platform company with a platform economic business model, and then it is clear that we will have to look at how we protect the individual citizen. And that's one of the things you start to tackle, fortunately, with the work you're doing together in the European Union at the moment, and that's one of the things we think is a sin you're always steeped over from the Danish side to want to work together on. Then we also believe that the crises we are facing today, in other words the inequality crisis, the climate crisis, not least, but also some of the conflicts around the world, are calling for us to work more closely together in Europe, so we have a voice. Yesterday I went out to a debate about China in relation to Denmark, in other words in relation to the cooperation we had in the past, where we were very focused on the economics, and suddenly we also have some security issues. What I started by saying to the rapporteur when he asked a question was that almost no matter what I am asked about today, when we talk about the challenge with China, the answer on my part will be the European Union, that is, that we will have closer cooperation on foreign policy in the European Union if we are to be able to act in relation to the rest of the world. So, in relation to today's questions from the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that there is anything that must necessarily be slimmer, but much better. We believe that there must be much stronger cooperation, and we believe that it must be much deeper, in other words more democratic cooperation for Europeans. And the fact that Britain is stepping out opens up the possibility that we can discuss it further, although I still hope that they will stay and be with us in the future. I think those were the words from me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131403	There's a question from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131405	I would like to hear more about democracy. Well, it doesn't seem to be a reflection at all with regard to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist's concept of democracy, that there are some things that need to be in common in order to talk about democracy, for example. to have a common language. It is not everyone who has, what can be said, the linguistic equilibrium, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has, that he can understand German and French and all the languages that may be spoken I think it is 23. I think that's amazing. And I am in favour of elite; I am in favour of people who are in this way avant-garde. That is why I would like to ask you a question, in relation to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist led his list of European Parliament elections earlier this summer: how many of the candidates put up by the Alternative were not Danish? In other words, how many Germans, French, Greeks, Maltese and other good things were on their list there, so as not to just with the permission of the President do the talk, but also do the walk?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131506	First of all, I have to say that I do not speak German, so I am not as much an elite as I am proclaimed here. I knew no one was Greek, Maltese, etc. on our list in Denmark, but we chose to run for a political programme which was the same as in Poland, Germany, France, Portugal, Greece and so on. In other words, we did not have the national focus in relation to the choice we faced, where it was precisely about taking decisions at European level together. Here in the Folketing we do so in relation to the area which is Denmark, in the municipalities you do so in relation to the area which is municipal. And we really think that if we could have done that, it would have been quite sensible to run the way we have proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131552	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt may have an extra 10 seconds to translate for the sake of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131600	Thank you for the President's goodwill. I shall stick to speaking Danish, so that we at least have a common understanding of what is being said, not necessarily how it is perceived, but what is being said. And that is the whole point here, namely that when you run for office in the municipalities in Denmark, we speak the same in the regions, the same in the Folketing, and indeed the same in the European Parliament elections, because it is Danes who put up the lists. I can only remember a few examples of Members of the European Parliament elected in other countries, and perhaps this highlights the fact that, if you are to have a democracy, it is a very good idea for those who choose and those who are elected to speak together. - Sir... Rasmus Nordqvist confirm or deny that relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131644	Well, now you can translate, and you can make yourself understandable, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is a good man, because he himself has been sitting in the European Parliament. When I am down to the European Parliament, there are some that I understand directly when they speak, if it is in English or French, they are languages that I master beyond the Danish. However, if someone starts to speak other languages, it is fortunately the case that you can have someone in your ear who helps you translate it so that you can take part in a debate and have that exchange. And in relation to the European Union and the democratic institutions that we have, I just think that this is about us having them together as Europeans. That's the way it is for me and for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131718	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031131727	Thank you. We have a question debate on what consequences Denmark should draw as a result of brexit. Before I go to answer that question, I need to outline some of the background. Liberal Alliance is a strong supporter of EU cooperation. We think it is important for the European countries not only to cooperate, but also to cooperate in a binding manner. We also think it is important that decisions can be taken by a majority on these issues without each country having a right of veto. So we support European cooperation and we support the EU and Denmark's membership of the European Union. This does not mean, however, that we cannot see danger signals in EU cooperation: that things are going wrong and should not move any further in that direction. We warn against this, and we try to persuade others to do something about it. Europe is an extremely successful region in the world, historically and at present, for the reason that Europe is not one large country. Europe has reaped success because it has consisted of many political entities, where it was the case that if one country did sensible things, other countries could see it and copy it. And vice versa: if one country did really unreasonable things, other countries in the European Union could also see it and fail to do so. Similarly, citizens and businesses could easily move from one country to another in order to choose the systems that best suited them, and in this way the unusual idea arose in Europe that citizens had the right to freedom, because if the emperor in one country was completely unreasonable, one could simply move as a free person to another country where the emperor was more reasonable. To illustrate how diverse Europe has been, it is perhaps best to look into German history. For in the period from 1648 to 1815 Germany alone consisted of 234 countries, 51 free cities and 1,500 independent chivalry estates. It was just a question of a spit club so you could move from one regime to the other because there was just no central control. And that must be preserved if we want to preserve Europe's greatness. That is why, in order to respond to what is the question in this question debate, it is a problem for Denmark and for the whole idea of Europe as a diverse regime with different power centres, if one of the countries that has fought for that idea, namely Britain, is now disappearing from European cooperation, so that not so many countries believe in it with the decentralized government of Europe, the diversity of nations, and that we have to unite only on what has a cross-border nature, where one country's decisions very negatively affect the situation of another country. It can be seen, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the question of pollution, which does not, of course, know national borders, and if one country emits pollution, it will blow across borders to the other country. And, of course, on such a matter, we must agree on a common policy and also, of course, with majority decisions. So my answer to what needs to be done on top of brexit now that we have lost our close ally of Great Britain must be that we must have a higher level of treaty-enforced protection of the sovereignty of nations on issues where the European Union should not interfere. And there has been a question about what are examples of the European Union interfering in things that are obviously not something in which the European Union should interfere, and I would like to mention four points. The question of compulsory shared maternity leave, that is, that we in Denmark cannot decide that a mother and a father must find out for themselves who is taking maternity leave. The fact that it comes up as an EU issue screams to heaven, for why should the EU decide that? It is not the case that if Denmark chooses one form of maternity, it is adversely affected by Germany or the Netherlands or Spain. Prohibition of snuff in portion sizes. Why can we not sell snuff in portion sizes in Denmark if we want to? Why is this an EU matter? We are now in the process of introducing rules for the establishment of electricians in Denmark. I fully agree that we in the European Union must adopt EU policies on climate. But how we get there, how we reduce emissions of climate gases, is therefore something that we have to decide for ourselves in the countries. Finally, I would like to mention the old rule that children in Denmark are not allowed to wear newspapers or work at all. Why should the European Union decide such things? We must have a new treaty or treaty addition that guarantees the sovereignty of nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132257	Thank you. There's a question. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132258	I would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent speech and a positive speech in relation to what we have heard from other rapporteurs. I think the point that Europe's strength is diversity is quite right, and it has proved its worth for centuries. Nevertheless, and this is quite reasonable, the Liberal Alliance is trying, as I understand it, to balance with where we are today, and we all do. But that is why it is still interesting to hear where it is that the Liberal Alliance, like Denmark and the European Union, is moving. After all, we have a discussion about the reservations that we have and where it would be nice to hear what the Liberal Alliance is like. But there was also a possibility that other reservations could be taken into account which might identify some of the areas which Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is concerned that the EU is now interfering too much in?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132352	I do not believe that we should have new reservations on this basis. If the countries of the European Union decide at some point to go further in cooperation, it may be that we should have reservations about further cooperation if we do not think it makes sense. However, in relation to the current cooperation, I do not immediately see the need for any more reservations. But I see the need for us to give some meat to the principle of subsidiarity, which is currently enshrined in the Treaty on European Union. It doesn't have any meat. There is no real judicial review of whether this is really something that the European Union should interfere with, and I think that is a problem. In Denmark, if the Danish Parliament violates the Constitution, can the Supreme Court go out and say: What is contrary to the Constitution, can you change that law? However, we do not seem to have in the EU system a principle of subsidiarity or subsidiarity, as the European Court of Justice does when the Council of Ministers or the Commission would like to interfere in how the barsle can be held in Denmark and where it says: it is actually not allowed for the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132503	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132505	But this is probably because there are different perceptions of what this principle of subsidiarity is translated into in English, which is wrong; it should be called the principle of sub-ordination, because sub-sub-constitutes under in Latin, isn't it? Because if you ask downstairs in the Commission, you are told that the principle of subsidiarity says that if you cannot find a way to harmonise on your own, the European Union must do so. In other words, it is not really a question of the fact that these are matters that the countries could handle properly and thus implicitly differently. No, it is about whether harmonisation takes place without the intervention of the European Union, and if it cannot do so, the European Union, in its own view, is allowed to intervene. Shouldn't we change that, sir? Ole Birk Olesen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132547	Certainly we should, because it is no use having a text in a treaty if there are not two identical opinions on how that text should be understood. Everyone should see it the same. It should be the case that if, with the decisions taken there, the European Union exceeds a text of the Treaty, then there can be a court decision that says: this is wrong, you have to go back; it is not something in which the European Union should interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132616	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur and we turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031132625	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs. I think we have had a good debate today and I have a few comments that I think it is important to say here. Firstly, there has been a debate about whether the focus should be on reforms and Treaty changes and institutions. You can have a long debate on this, and it is also an important debate. However, I believe that if you look at some of the things that are needed in the light of brexit, it is precisely that, in the current circumstances, EU cooperation delivers concrete results to citizens in relation to the concerns of citizens: climate struggle, migration, social dumping, tax evasion, a more uncertain world where we also need to work together on foreign and security policy in relation to major powers around us and in our neighbourhood. I think that, when it comes to popularity and delivering something that people are asking for, it is also concrete results. I believe that the alienation in abstract discussions on institutions and reforms, possibly in the future, is an important discussion, but that is not what will help us solve the problems today and tomorrow, and I think that EU cooperation needs countries to focus to such an extent on solving the problems faced by citizens. So more focus on results rather than reforms, more focus on content instead of institutions, and what you do when you sit together in the 28, soon 27, Member States and have to solve problems. Are you really solving the problems, or are you doing something else? I think it's really important to ask those questions. Secondly, I would like to say that today this also shows that cooperation on cross-border problems, which no country can solve alone, is also a political battleground. It is also a battleground for what solutions need to be found. It is just as it is here in the Folketing when we discuss many of the problems we face, where there is also a battleground about what solution is needed to solve a problem, and there we share our views, and that is healthy. That is also the case with cross-border problems, to which there are different solutions. I believe that we are doing ourselves and the whole debate of the European Union a service there if we recognise that we also have the right to disagree on a democratic principle, even when the Commission, for example, has the right to disagree. comes up with proposals that are not good. Then it is also important that we can say no, and that is not because we do not think that EU cooperation is important, but because we think that the policy put forward by a given Commissioner is not the right one to solve that problem. Many people confuse that with becoming very, very EU-sceptic and wishing to withdraw Denmark from the EU. No, let us have a healthy debate about which policy works and let us recognise that we have different views on the solutions we face. I think there were many important things that were raised, also in relation to brexit. One might ask oneself: is it the case that we are getting richer and freer and getting cooperation better by opting out of European cooperation? You can look at Britain, and I really feel for them. I think it is hard to see a country that is as close to us as we have so many ties to a country that actually became a member at the same time as us are in an internal split that has been going on for several years. I do not think that is a good thing to look at, and that is why I wish Great Britain every success and wish that we should have very close and good cooperation when they leave the European Union, that is, between Denmark and Great Britain and also between the European Union and Great Britain. But I am absolutely convinced that this is not the right way to go. What we need to do is to solve the problems that exist, by working together to solve the problems, rather than resigning from the communities, from the European Union. Therefore, to be honest, I have had some doubts as to what Enhedslisten really meant in relation to the discussion, where it is true that we are at a crossroads • The Enhedslisten's rapporteur is right and where it is important that we participate in the debate. I share that view, but I think it is important to be involved, to join the fight, rather than quit the fight, such as the British. Do. It's also kind of the same for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who is a questioner: Is it not also important to say that it is good that Denmark is involved? I cannot quite understand whether the Danish People's Party believes that Denmark should follow the path taken by the British, but if so, is it not the opposite that is needed, that is to say, that we are more committed? Well, we're a small country, but we have a lot of good ideas. Shouldn't we put our modesty away and fight with others about the ideas we have? Despite the size of our country, we can actually make a difference. I have certainly seen since this government came to the conclusion that in the climate struggle we have set some very ambitious targets: a 70-percent reduction by 2030. That is something that is being listened to. We go in and mark, and we lift far above what our size • population size, country size • entitles us to. That is our approach by the government. We must come in and fight for what are our interests and views; we must focus on concrete results that citizens can see in their everyday lives; we must ensure that we do not just lose ourselves in long discussions about institutions and reforms. It is also important, but the important thing for a government and a parliament is to deliver concrete results that citizens can feel in everyday life. So I will say to all of you: thank you for a good debate and I hope that we will have more of these kinds of debates. I think it is healthy and good that we should have a debate on the future of EU cooperation. I also think it is important that we continue to have a public debate, not only in connection with election campaigns and votes, but also in general terms. I think that we should take EU policy into everyday life as part of the other political struggle that is taking place here in the Folketing, in municipalities, regions and all sorts of other places. This is an ambition that we should have together here. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133217	There's a question. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133221	Thank you for the floor. I understand that the Minister finds this a little difficult. We have not yet taken a decision on what we are awaiting a referendum, because we think it is important that there should be a clear alternative. However, in relation to what the Minister is saying, can we not say that the solution could be minimum standards in which we can find out between countries: what do we want? Otherwise, I could at least be nervous that we will end up with Poland having a right of veto on our climate policy and Hungary on our refugee policy. Could it not be an opportunity to do so in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133254	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133255	Thank you to the rapporteur. It also explains why there is not a clear answer to that question. The rapporteur asks: could we not have some minimum standards and then take care to find out? This is precisely the point of making sure that we find out, if I quote the rapporteur correctly, that we have European cooperation in this area. There we have created a framework where we need to find out some things together, where we also have a deep disagreement about things, but we have a framework on what we have a decision-making process about what also has its weaknesses. For example, and I fully agree with several rapporteurs, among others. SF's rapporteur, there is a need for much greater openness in the Council's work, i.e. between Member States, much more openness so that citizens, media and stakeholders can keep track of what is going on in a better way than they can today. But I think it would be liberatingly nice if Enhedslisten said: OK, we join the fight with the rest of you, we have some views on what is important to prioritise, that is what we are going into, and then we support a European Union cooperation, because it is important for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133354	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133356	After all, the Enhedslisten was given a mandate, so it has to be said that it is an attempt to join the fight. In relation to the minimum standards: there are, after all, some places where we are being held back. There has also been a desire from the Minister's colleagues to be able to take the lead in relation to fluorine and other examples in that area, but we will be limited by that. So I just want to hear: can the Minister not see that there can also be a challenge in this total harmonisation, where we will have difficulty in being able to take the lead, by being held back by countries that are not yet as far as we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133429	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133430	I certainly think it is important to discuss how we are taking the lead and lifting the most, for example. in the field of the environment or climate, and there is my clear conviction that we can lift the fight for us to have high standards there, even better when we do so together in the world's largest internal market with half a billion people, because if each of us in the countries solves this problem, there will be a lot of countries that are not prepared to go far enough. So it is related to what is the government's position: go into the fight to get the highest standards as possible. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133503	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133505	Yes, again, I have to say that it is a rather tame interpretation of the government's EU policy that we are getting here from the Foreign Minister, and indeed, especially when the Prime Minister of the country dares to express himself a little more brazenly. There we courageously declare that the Commission's draft budget is a crazy one and that we want to hold referendums if we want to join the banking union and so on. A couple of years ago, we also had a fine chronicle, I think it was in Politiken; it would also be predictable when it was advocated that it should be a Europe for the people and not necessarily Denmark at the heart of the European Union, etc. That all sounds good, and that is why the question is simply: is there any coordination at all between the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this country? So, is there any reflection at all from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on how to realise the wishes of the Head of Government after all? For so far, we have only heard a violin game speak for how fantastic the European Union is and that it is just misunderstandings when something goes wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133603	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133605	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt also supports the government, our fight for a Europe for the people. That's great, that's good, that's at least news today. What does that mean in practice? That means, for example. As far as our multiannual budgetary framework, the MMF, is concerned, as I said in my speech, we want priority to be given within a strict framework of 1.00%. of bni. It is very important because the European Union must also give priority to other tasks in the Member States that are important; there are our own welfare tasks in Denmark that this government values very much. That is why the rapporteur is wrong when he claims that a Europe for the people is not one of the things we are fighting for. On the contrary. And it would be very nice if, instead of talking only about institutions and reforms, which are an important discussion, the rapporteur were also to come into the fight and tell us about what we are concerned with: how to deliver concrete results that benefit citizens in terms of climate, combating social dumping and combating tax fraud. We have heard nothing about this from the rapporteur, and I am slightly disappointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133714	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133715	I'm actually pretty silly about Oskar Hansen's text. So, I remember that when I was active in the Youth of the Danish People's Party, I was one of those who always advocated singing and singing Denmark for the People's Party, i.e.: Fight against those who want to storm and beat the bright senses of freedom on which our people are built. It can't be any more beautiful. This cannot be further removed from government policy, I understand, because one will not listen at all to the criticism of the people of Europe about how the European Union works. Apparently Oskar Hansen is not only fleshly death, he is also spiritually completely away from the Foreign Minister's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133751	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133753	The rapporteur's agreement to a Europe for the people is the first. The second is that the rapporteur also agrees with the Social Democrats that Oskar Hansen in particular. The Danish People's Republic has a great message, and it is a good thing that the rapporteur is thus declaring himself to be a social democrat or whatever is going on. I think it is really important and that is what we are fighting for: we are listening to the people and the desires there are. For example: When it comes to dealing with irregular migration, climate change, social dumping, tax evasion, we in this government are at the forefront of that policy, and that is why it would be so nice if the rapporteur had made some suggestions in those areas too, but we have not heard anything of that. And that is why it is good that the rapporteur supports the government, but I would have expected a little more from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133836	Then we say thank you to the Secretary of State. There's no more questions, and then we'll let Mr. Knox. Oskar Hansen rest in peace. No thought was given to the European Union when that song was written. Then it's mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, rapporteur for the questioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031133854	Thank you, President. Yes, we let Oskar Hansen and other real social democrats rest. Then I will just have to reflect again a little over the fact that one obviously does not want to answer the question at all. In other words, we are faced with the situation that, at least the second most important country in the European Union, is facilitating anchors and doing something else. What has led to this? This is hardly an expression of full support for the project. Therefore, it could be expected to lead to some reflection among those who have been in charge of the project, and it is therefore the party of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the administration since 1972. At least it's not yours. Then one could imagine that there was some reflection on what has gone wrong. It could also lead to a reflection on whether some of the frustration that the British have over an EU which, without a democratic mandate, interferes in too much, perhaps also shared by some of us here on the continent. And then, if you really have to leave without reawakening Oskar Hansen to life, could you imagine that there could be some on the continent who could have the same idea as the British if the British's departure from the EU actually turns out to be a success? If just one of those premises led to real reflections, perhaps we should also consider what we do to save what can be saved. After all, nobody loves the European Union today. Not even sir. Jens Rohde loves the EU today. He wants more of it, but most citizens, I think, feel that way about the European Union: yes, we know what we have; we do not know what we get. That is probably why we have seen the measurements that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned earlier. But the moment we know what brexit leads to, the moment we can see that the British are in fact doing both economically and in freedom and in many other ways better than what is then in the 27 countries left behind in the European Union, I wonder if there will be some around in the small homes of Denmark, Germany, Slovenia, Poland, etc. who think: why are we supposed to remain in this over-bureaucratic, undemocratic system when the British are showing another way? I had actually thought there would be a little more progress than there would be to the mere plunder that we need the European Union to save the climate, to protect ourselves from migratory flows and to deal with social dumping. Frankly, it is not the European Union that has done that in Denmark we have our high climate targets. It is, after all, a strongly entrenched popular debate and a desire that has been brought forward in Denmark. As far as I remember, the ambition in Bulgaria and Romania is still to reduce outside the ETS by 0 per cent. 2% and 2%. So that is not the kind of thing that has spread throughout the European Union, Mr President. Minister for Foreign Affairs. With regard to migration, I have to say that most people probably feel that the European Union is more a challenge than a helping hand. It has not been many months since the Foreign Minister's colleague and Minister for Integration had to come home from Luxembourg with a statement that a huge amount of the refusals we have made on family reunifications to Turks had to go over because it was against EU law. It is the European Union that makes the Foreign Minister's colleague, the Minister for Justice, have to put his hat in his hand asking for us not to be allowed to extend our border controls. It is in the area by region of the European Union that prevents us from making the restrictions that there would probably be a large majority in favour of in the Folketing if we could just make them and there would certainly be outside the Folketing if we dared to ask the electorate. And social dumping! I mean, it's almost a concept invented in Brussels. How on earth can one claim that it is the European Union that has to solve the problem when it is the European Union that has created the problem? Yes, of course I would also like to give the Foreign Minister some credit for this, because on 1 May 2009, the Foreign Minister's party made sure that east enlargement was fully implemented so that East workers could come to Denmark without having to have a work permit. However, in all the areas that the Foreign Minister saw and which should be the success experiences, it can be pointed out that the European Union is more a problem than a solution. Frankly, I wonder why we cannot give just a little reflection on what brexit really means, except that we are now going to sell the product much better. But that's the way it is. Peace be to it. Then we will take the debate when we know where Britain is in a few years' time. We will probably also take up the debate, and then we will look at what the Danes want, what the Europeans want. Will they still be wasted by faceless bureaucrats, non-democratic judges and politicians who are mostly elected in countries other than their own, or will they, in fact, like the British, who have been responsible for freedom, development and democracy in Europe for a thousand years, be masters of their own house? I'm pretty sure it's the last thing that's gonna win. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134354	There is a proposal for adoption. Morten Messerschmidt Well, I completely forgot, because I was so excited). That is why the President is here to guide Members. And now the rapporteur has to read out the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134405	Thank you. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that brexit gives rise to a fundamental rethink of European cooperation. Broad sections of the Danish and European population are dissatisfied with the way the EU operates. This applies in particular to immigration policy and border control, just as the Northern European welfare systems are under fire, in particular, by an activist EU court without popular control. Against this background, the Folketing instructs the government to enter into negotiations with the EU on a looser association for Denmark. The aim is to create a social reserve which ensures that Danish social benefits can be paid only under Danish law, and that border controls and full sovereignty over foreign policy are maintained. • V (6). • V (6). • Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134456	Thank you. It's always nice to be able to help your colleagues here in the Folketing. Now it's sir. Balder Mørk Andersen with questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134507	Thank you. Throughout today's debate, there has been a feeling that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has stood and crossed his fingers for brexit to end well, just like those who now believe that it is the right way to go for the English. There has been a little bit of security, but also an uncertainty as to what it might end up with. I have a question for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who goes on whether it might be possible that brexit will lead to increased inequality, will lead to the working class and the most socially vulnerable in England suffering from this decision, leading to even more working poor and more poverty. Is it not something that a party such as the Danish People's Party, which actually equates slimmers with popular, should fear, while at the same time standing and crossing fingers for it to end well? The most important thing we can learn from this is that we must work for a better European Union rather than leave the core to be about slimming down or the complete diminutiveisation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134612	I totally agree. What is fantastic about brexit is that all the people who have lost their jobs because of eastward enlargement, all the people who are badly treated in the labour market because of those rules, for example. The European Union has adopted today, will suddenly have a place to go. Today they are told that they can go to Brussels and then they can talk to a Commissioner with whom they may not share languages, so it is probably only Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who is able to communicate with her, or they can find a parliamentarian whom they have never met before. But after Brexit, you will be able to go to the House of Commons, and then you will be able to go to London and put the people you voted for in the parliamentary elections that have last been held to account. So I fully agree with the concern expressed here by the Socialist People's Party. What is merely the difference between EU regulation and national regulation is that, within national democracy, someone can be held accountable for it and not just turn to a bunch of faceless bureaucrats in Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134703	Sir. Balder Dark Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134705	After all, it is not simply a question of who is to be held responsible. It is about the people who are affected by the concrete decisions. We are actually thinking in terms of solidarity with people who go to work and provide for their respective nations, and we are actually worried about them in England. I fear that the lesson we are going to take with us here is that we must, of course, secure the broad popular support for the future EU project so that we do not end up in a situation where there are some demagogues and populists who are able to pull a population around the nose with fads on how it can do oh so many things for the nation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134748	Yes, well, right up to the last point mentioned by the rapporteur, we are probably in agreement. Because I actually believe that a people has the right to choose the politicians that they want to see whether, on the socialist side, they are demagogues or populists, or what do I know; I can find quite a few of these types in socialism's last 150 years of world history. But I also believe that citizens must be allowed to choose the politicians they want and then to hold them to account. That is what democracy is all about. You cannot do that in the European Union. That is why the European Union is so openly undemocratic or, in fact, not just non-democratic, I would rather say anti-democratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134822	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134825	But Morten Messerschmidt does not want to make the European Union democratic either, he just wants to get out. That's kind of what's behind this. What's gonna get me up is that sir. Morten Messerschmidt talks about all the Britons who have received poor treatment in the labour market because of the EU and because of eastward enlargement. It's so far away from reality. It's history falsifying, what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is making. Because the truth is that when we made the transitional arrangement, the British would not be in it. Why? Because they needed all the labour that could come from the East. You should not have an EU that laid down minimum protections and something like that. No, there could not get enough labour into the EU. And it is fantastic that you stand up there on the platform and almost identify yourself as a Dane with the British labour market, which is the worst organized, one of the worst organised labour markets throughout Europe. It is unbelievable that the Danish People's Party can make itself do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134930	Well, I would warn against voting for Social Democrats at all times, and that also applies to Blair's social democracy in Britain. After all, he was in charge of the line that the rapporteur is referring to. And that is absolutely right: to be in favour of the European Union and still solidarize with people in the lowest part of the labour market is the biggest paradox one can imagine. So I fully agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134953	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031134954	But it is of course the British who are opposed to any form of cooperation and have been opposed throughout the cooperation to any form of social dimension. And then we have to remember why. It wasn't Labour's fault. It was Margaret Thatcher who, at the time, took the fight with the trade union movement in Britain and because she had taken the fight with the trade union movement, she did not want socialism through the back door, as she said. That's how she defined it. So everything about the protection and rights of workers must be looked for very, very long after in Britain, and that is not the fault of the European Union, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031135036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031135038	No, and what you can fret about is that Thatcher didn't get more influence than she did. I think it was excellent that she fought against the Communist tendencies of the British trade union movement. Nothing has cast so much evil on the world as communism and socialism. We have a duty to combat this as decent people. I think Thatcher is one of the most shining examples of the heavens of the democratic and free world. What one can then, of course, mourn is that when she resigns, it is a much more quirky and pro-European conservatism that is gaining ground, one that is a bit like the radicalism that Jens Rohde stands for today. And it is clear that there has been no will there to break up with the European Union. It's sad, it really is. But it is not because we have had too much Margaret Thatcher in England or in Europe. That's because we've had too little.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031135121	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 5 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031135140	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 5 November 2019. As a start to everything, Mr President, the rapporteur for the questioners will have it all started. Morten Messerschmidt, the word to justify the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031135215	Thank you, President. When you read both Danish and European newspapers about what is going on in Turkey, you would not immediately think that we were dealing with a country that is incredibly closely connected with the European Union that we have now heard about in the last two hours is the eternally sacrificing, also in relation to Denmark. But that's the way it is. Despite the fact that Turkey is an occupying power in Cyprus, despite the fact that in the last 20 years since Refah Partisi's first success, Mr. Erdogan became mayor of Constantinople, has moved in a consistent direction of darkness, yes, then Turkey is still maintained in the EU as a candidate country, a country that can eventually join the European Union. That seems paradoxical, because over the last week we have heard the Prime Minister pride himself on being the one who has slowed down Albania and northern Macedonia. But to curb Turkey, which is culturally, geographically, historically and economically quite clearly not part of Europe, cannot be manned up to. Well, you have suspended some of the chapters as it is called. That is to say, you wait until more favorable times come. One has some idea that at the moment the pendulum has swung completely in the direction of Islamism, and who knows in a ten-year period it might swing back to the Kemalists. Then maybe Turkey can be taken up at that time, some say. It must be another Turkey, a European Turkey, a democratic Turkey. It is also very touching, except that there will of course be some fear that when you have absorbed this fatamorgana of a Turkey, the pendulum swings back to exactly where we are today. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have only one thing to do, and it is telling Turkey that it is no longer a candidate country. Here we are in the quite fantastic situation, as the courageous achievements of the Prime Minister during the past weeks concerning Albania and Northern Macedonia show that Denmark can actually be the country that says stop. Because it requires agreement among the Member States of the European Union to continue a debate, to continue to recognise Turkey as a candidate country. Therefore, it is our call to the government to take the consequences of what everyone will see that Turkey should not be part of the EU and therefore inform the Turks that this is the way it is. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031135510	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the reply, and that is the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031135519	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the authors for giving me the opportunity to explain the government's policy towards Turkey. Turkey is currently drawing a great deal of attention, unfortunately rarely for good. Only last week, in this Chamber, we discussed Turkey's role in north-east Syria. I am pleased that the question debate, F 8, resulted in a broad consensus on a clear condemnation of Turkey's military intervention in north-east Syria and an appeal to Turkey to withdraw. Today, Turkey's status as an EU candidate country is being asked. Turkey gained the status of EU candidate country in 1999, and the enlargement negotiations started in 2005. As early as 1963 Turkey concluded an association agreement with the then European Economic Community. At the moment, there is no willingness to formally suspend enlargement negotiations within the EU circle, but they are actually frozen. Having said that, I would like to state clearly that, like the previous government, the government does not see for itself that Turkey, as we know it today, can become a member of the European Union. I would like to explain that further. Turkey is not a country that we can ignore; it is a long-standing ally in NATO, a key partner for the European Union and a key partner in dealing with migration flows. Turkey's role in this area must not be underestimated. We must also recognise that Turkey has made and continues to make a great effort to help the almost 4 million refugees who are staying in the country. Turkey is located geographically centrally between Europe and the Middle East. Potentially, Turkey could be a role model to bridge the gap between diverse social perceptions, cultures and religious traditions. In fact, in the first year after Turkey's candidate status, progress was made in a positive direction and important steps were taken to reform it. In recent years, however, developments have gone in a completely different and very wrong direction. In the area of human rights and the rule of law in particular, developments have been very worrying and very regrettable. It has particularly gone downhill after the coup attempt in July 2016. Turkish civil society has difficult conditions, the judicial system cannot be described as independent and impartial, there has been a strengthening of the executive power against the judicial system, and there are politically motivated arrests, dismissals of judges and prosecutors and repeated attacks against lawyers and human rights defenders. 10,000 are still in prison for terrorist-related matters, including journalists and elected politicians, especially from the Kurdish-oriented opposition party, HDP. It is beyond doubt that Turkey is facing security threats from terrorist groups such as the PKK. Turkey, like any other country, has the right to defend itself against terrorism, but the answer must be proportionate and respect the legal certainty of its citizens. I do not think that is always the case. The same applies to Turkey's actions in north-east Syria, which we discussed in the Parliamentary Chamber last week. The Turkish military operation has serious consequences for the civilian population, which is driven on the run and suffering from a lack of sanitary access, as well as for the fight against the Islamic State, the handling of the problem of foreign warriors and the political process in Syria. Against this background, I can clearly state that the government does not consider it realistic for Turkey, as we know today, to become a member of the European Union. Turkey continues to move away from Europe, away from European values. The critical Danish attitude towards Turkey is not new. As you know, the previous Danish Government announced that the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey are hopeless and should be stopped. Not many EU countries have reported so clearly, but the government believes that this is right in the current situation. We are convinced that it is important to send a very clear message to Turkey. Keyly speaking, there is little disagreement within the EU circle about Turkey. In fact, it is a united European Union that has been agreed since 2018 to conclude that Turkey has moved further away from the European Union and that, therefore, the accession negotiations are in practice still in place. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the European Union's relations with Turkey are characterised by great complexity and require a balanced approach. Turkey is a key partner of the European Union, a geopolitical centre of NATO and an important player in the Middle East. The Government recognises Turkey's efforts to help refugees from the conflict in Syria and to limit irregular migration to Europe. There is therefore also a need for continued dialogue and cooperation with Turkey on trade and migration. The government is taking a firm approach to the negative developments in Turkey. We consistently raise questions about what concerns us in the bilateral dialogue with representatives of the Turkish Government. This is true at political level and we will contact them at official level. At the same time, I must make it clear that it is limited what Denmark alone can do to get Turkey to respect democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. It is primarily in international forums such as the European Union, the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the OSCE that Denmark can help to promote international pressure on Turkey. The Government will continue to criticise the Turkish Government in order to promote respect for human rights and international obligations. As in other difficult foreign policy issues, there is no fait accompli list and no easy solutions. The government would like to enter into a dialogue on how best to deal with the situation in Turkey and how best to influence further development. We must also remember that there are still many forces in Turkey that want Europe and European values. A long and determined effort will be needed to bring Turkey back to a positive development in terms of democracy, in terms of the rule of law and in terms of fundamental rights. That is also why the government is looking forward to today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140146	Thank you. And there are a few questions. The first is from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140150	I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed. Because I have been on the website of the European Parliament and can also remember it from my own time down there where you can find a speech made by a Mr. Jeppe Kofod, where the following quotation is made: Therefore, we must say clearly to Erdogan's Turkey that they have no future in the European Union. That is why we should take the consequences and stop the accession negotiations with the current Turkish Government. Quote out. Well, I have the impression that Erdogan is still the head of the government of Turkey. That is why I simply do not understand that Mr. Jeppe Kofod doesn't mean what Mr. Jeppe Kofod felt that when he was sitting in the European Parliament, it was necessary to take the consequences and stop the accession negotiations with Turkey. What has happened in those two years? Well, it's been going in the better direction, so to speak, since mr. As Foreign Minister, Jeppe Kofod now thinks something different from what he meant as a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140240	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140242	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think I said very clearly in my speech that we want to end the negotiations with Turkey in relation to the Turkey we are seeing today. It is moving in the wrong direction, away from European values, away from the rule of law, away from human rights, and these are, after all, fundamental things that we have also debated in the previous debate and which are absolutely crucial to the prospect of membership of the European Union. So it is very clear and, at the same time, it is important that the forces in Turkey, the democratic forces, those who fight for democracy and human rights are also supported. So that's the position of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140325	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140340	Thank you very much. Well, then I can follow up on sir. Morten Messerschmidt, because I am so glad that it is the Foreign Minister who is giving the speech and not Mr. Jeppe Kofod two years ago. Because this requires a very balanced approach, and it's much more complex than that. And we have seen the consequences of such a dogmatic attitude that Turkey is no longer a candidate country at all. After all, we saw this in 2009 when Angela Merkel went out and said that we should offer them privileged partnership instead. And what did that mean? Yes, that was when the refugee flows really started because Erdogan turned around, and then he made a partnership agreement with a large number of banana states, visa agreements, then the refugees came, and the Turks did not want them, and then they were sent across the strait. We all remember that development from 2009. We must be careful about this, so that is why we have a fine speech from the Foreign Minister. But I'd like to ask the Secretary of State something. After all, we also have a refugee agreement and the Foreign Minister praised Turkey for taking care of refugees, but what we are seeing at the moment are forced repatriations to Syria. How does the government feel about this relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140453	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140454	First of all, to Mr. Jens Rohde: Well, I was very clearly told that the government would like the EU's enlargement negotiations with Turkey to end. It is important to make that message clear. Secondly, in relation to the refugee situation and the almost 4 million mainly Syrian refugees who are in Turkey, Turkey has, it has to be said, made a huge effort. They have also received financial support for this, and any return of refugees to areas where they come from or to Syria must be carried out in accordance with the principles that also apply in the UNHCR. In other words, there must be respect for the local people who are, it must be done on a proper, what is it called, human rights basis. This is very important, and we must reiterate this requirement, even in relation to Turkey, if they start returning refugees. And that must also be done voluntarily, of course. This is also one of the requirements, so it is very important to have it communicated clearly to Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140556	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140558	Now I just get a little confused, because in the first speech by the Foreign Minister there was no mention of the end of the negotiations. In other words, there are no negotiations now, they are suspended, and they are because of Turkey's actions in a number of different areas. And they are hardly reinstated for the first many, many years, perhaps even decades, perhaps even never. But formally speaking, you're still gone candidate country. That is why I am not quite sure that I understand what the Foreign Minister means by stopping them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140636	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140637	That is how I said it clearly: the government would like the EU's enlargement negotiations with Turkey to end. It is not realistic for Turkey to become a member of the European Union in a situation where Turkey moves away from Europe and European values. However, a majority of the Member States of the European Union do not wish to suspend the negotiations formally, so even though they have in reality come to a complete halt in the light of developments in Turkey, it is thus the case that there is no majority in favour of stopping the negotiations altogether. So that is what it looks like, but it is clear that the signal we are sending to Turkey is a very clear and strict signal, because it is important that Turkey understands that it is a serious situation that makes us react so hard on our part too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140722	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140724	But it is also important to remember that parts of the accession negotiations are precisely linked to the refugee agreement, as Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned earlier, and he's still driving away. With regard to it, I would just like to hear from the Foreign Minister whether there has been any change on the Danish side or whether we still do not regard Turkey as a safe third country in relation to the repatriation of refugees to the country. After all, it was the discussion back then that it was just not safe. Denmark and a number of other EU countries did not see Turkey as a safe third country, and that is why we left it to the Greeks to send refugees back to Turkey; for then the rest of us would have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140803	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140804	There are several issues. After all, there are up to 4 million refugees in Turkey whom we are very concerned about receiving the necessary help, and that is one of the things Denmark and the rest of the EU countries have helped to secure. And Turkey has also undertaken a huge task. If the refugees are to return to their homes or their country, then it is clear that this must be done in accordance with the principles of voluntary return of the UNHCR; it must be ensured that it is done in a orderly manner. In relation to Turkey and the negotiations: that is to say, we are fully committed to helping the opposition and the critical part of Turkey who would like to have democracy that would like to pursue European values that would like to ensure that Turkey develops in a European direction. So it's really important. Then we have had an agreement with Turkey in relation to the return of refugees, migrants, to Turkey. And it is clear that we have seen that agreement worked. It has stopped an illegal flow of migration and refugees into Europe. At the same time, however, Turkey has a huge task in helping the refugees they have in that country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140916	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs... there are no more questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs... and move on to the debate. And that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031140933	Thank you, President. The idea of such a question debate here is that we should try to learn a little more about what Denmark's position in foreign policy and therefore in casu in relation to Turkey is. Right now there are, like two different positions that the government has withdrawn for the last five minutes, and that is why I certainly hope that through the next hour, or whatever it takes, we will be a little smarter. Because I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is still of the opinion, as Mr. Jeppe Kofod believed in the European Parliament in 2017, namely that the consequences of Erdogan's regime should be taken into account and the accession negotiations with the current Turkish government stopped. If another government should then come at a later stage, and if then suddenly a sparkling democracy develops after all the ideals of the Enlightenment, then one can take it up again. But the position is to stop the accession negotiations. But then I understood what the Foreign Minister said as saying that it was not really possible to get through with it, because there was no majority in favour of it. In other words, without having to act as a manifest, it is not the case that we have to sit and vote to stop the accession negotiations, because they will automatically stop if there is a country that announces that we are no longer backing up, as long as accession requires the support of all countries. So it's not very unlike what we heard from the Prime Minister, it was in a different week or the week before Albania and Northern Macedonia. So if the government really means what the Foreign Minister says, namely that it wants to stop the accession negotiations, then I hope that the message has been sent to Brussels and that it will run on all the international news media when I come down from the platform here, because then it is indeed a good day. In my optics and in the optics of the Danish People's Party, there is nothing more damaging to the relationship between the EU and Turkey than the fact that Turkey has been allowed to become a candidate country for the European Union, and why now? Yes, because Turkey is basically not part of the European information tradition, democratic tradition. The developments which followed the defeat of the First World War, which led to Kemalism and, what can be said, the democratic institutions which, after all, arose there, thanks to Atatürk, were precisely created by a fight with everything that was before, but not something that had a deep foundation, a rooted foundation in Turkish society. That is why the eternal imbalance arose between the Islamists and the Kemalists, in which the army was successfully brought in as a guarantee force, the army, the secular forces which three times verced the Islamists out of the government offices until, of course, the European Union came out with its naive policy and spoke the army out of the Turkish constitution. They gave Erdogan and his Islamist friends a huge victory, but in doing so made the democratic forces a great injustice. That shows how paradoxical the situation is. By trying to push Turkey into a European form where the country, with its entire heritage, its history, its culture, does not belong; indeed, it ends up doing good to the dark forces that are said and probably also thought to be fighting. That is why there is good reason, especially as things have been developing since Refah Partisi and what AK has become, and with the latest manoeuvres we have seen from Erdogan, this pseudo-cup which has conveniently just led all the opponents to be thrown into prison and the kind of • that you take a consistent fight with the country, not in terms of cooperation and trade and such things, but in relation to EU membership: it never comes to pass. That is why, of course, we should also stop funding what is called the pre-accession process, and it could be that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would respond to it a little later. Because even if the majority of the chapters have been frozen, and this is true, considerable sums of money have still been paid to Turkey in the expectation that Turkey, as a capable candidate country, will set up its administration and administration, etc. towards what is European standard or rather EU standards. There is only one thing to say: that is not actually happening. It is not, of course, the case that it thunders in the right direction when it comes to minority protection, the protection of the press, women's rights, and what I know. On the contrary, everything is going in the wrong direction. Therefore, paragraph 1, let us now stop these farcical accession negotiations and, paragraph 2, let us at least stop financing Turkey as a pre-accession country. Thank you, President. President Is there a proposal for adoption?). Not yet. I await the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141440	Then we thank the rapporteur for the questions and move on to the rapporteur's line. It's first, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141456	We fully agree with both previous speakers on the worrying developments in Turkey. Right now, we have seen it in Syria, where there are massive attacks on the civilian population, and this can be read in numerous reports, including from international human rights organisations. It is important when we talk about Turkey not only to keep it up against what is happening in Syria. We know that there are record journalists in Turkish prison; there are actually more imprisoned journalists in Turkey than there are in China, so there is a lot of pressure on the freedom of the press. TV stations, radio stations and newspapers are shutting down. We have seen a violent harassment of minorities and also how it has been difficult for Turkey's Jewish minority, the Alvite minority and the few remaining Christians to be able to practice their religion in a common way. We know that there has been such pressure onlgbt rights; we have a Turkish family minister who has said that homosexuality is a disease that can be cured. And the same could be said of women's rights, where the right to abortion goes the wrong way, and we even have a Turkish Prime Minister who has to decide how many children Turkish women should have. So in all areas it goes in the wrong direction, including when we talk about corruption. We must also say that Erdogan's tentacles are not only in Turkey but also extend beyond its borders. After all, we have seen examples of this here in Denmark: sticking lines, snitching imams and targeted campaigns against democratically elected politicians in Denmark. So there is to such an extent a regime which tries to expand and which counts its citizens in Denmark as its disciples, and we have unfortunately also seen resident citizens whose loyalty is with Erdogan and not with the Danish authorities. Having said all this, it is also important to strengthen the opposition that exists in Turkey and that is actually very secular and socialist. We saw Erdogan lose the municipal elections in all the major cities in Turkey; we saw a municipal elections in Istanbul go on twice, and yet the opposition managed to win the second time despite massive cheating and despite an Erdogan who controlled the entire media image. For the Social Democrats, it is also important to keep a dialogue open with Turkey, not least in order to strengthen the part of Turkey that is not voting for Erdogan, and that is in all the elections around. 50% the people, that is to say, many despite very difficult circumstances in order to conduct opposition policies. So it is important not to write off completely a dialogue with Turkey, and we will of course maintain it, although, of course, EU membership is not being discussed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141744	Yeah, and there are some questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141749	I'm sorry, I'm also going to read out a proposal for adoption. That fg. President Yes). I'm sorry, I forgot. I shall read out the proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Parliament reiterates its criticism of the negative developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and in the area of fundamental rights. Parliament reiterates its condemnation of Turkey's military intervention in north-east Syria. The Folketing does not believe that it makes sense to continue the EU enlargement negotiations with the Turkey we know today. Turkey is moving away from Europe and European values. The EU's relations with Turkey are highly complex and require a balanced approach. Turkey is a key partner of the European Union, a geopolitical centre of NATO and an important player in the Middle East. The Folketing recognises Turkey's efforts to help refugees from the conflict in Syria and to limit irregular immigration to Europe. The Folketing recognises the need for continued dialogue and cooperation with Turkey, among others. on trade and migration. Parliament calls on the government, together with its partners in the EU and other international forums, to maintain pressure on Turkey to comply with fundamental rights and international obligations. • V 7).
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141843	Thank you. The proposed adoption will be included in the further debate. Then it is short remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141859	Thank you. However, I agree with the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party far enough, but I have just a few questions about the kind of cautious recognition I hear from Turkey in relation to refugees. For yes, there are many refugees in Turkey who are being dealt with in some way, despite the fact that this is also happening with major violations of human rights. Is it not true that Denmark still does not recognise Turkey as a safe third country and therefore cannot send people back to Turkey, because Turkey has not signed the refugee convention, but only recognises refugees coming from Europe and cannot therefore stand as a safe country? I think that is just a little in opposition to the recognition that comes from the Social Democrat rapporteur in this area, in other words with regard to the management of refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031141947	There are plenty of problems in Turkey when it comes to how to treat refugees. There are also examples of Sunni Muslim refugees being placed in Alawite villages where Erdogan uses these refugees to consciously change demography. So there are plenty of problems with regard to human rights and other fundamental rights and the security of refugees when they are in these camps. But that does not change the fact that Turkey has taken 3 million refugees. So we recognise that Turkey, like it, has taken responsibility. You could do much better, but the fact is that there are a lot of millions of refugees living in Turkey. And if all countries had taken only a fraction of this, we would have a better distribution in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142023	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142025	Well, I am just getting curious again, because this is also about, I think, something very central: the agreement that has been made by the European Union, with Turkey, which sends billions to Erdogan's regime and can therefore also send refugees back to Turkey, which we do not recognise as a safe third country. So it is one thing to say: yes, there are plenty of problems, but Turkey is handling a lot. Something else is that we now go in and recognise that they are helping us against irregular migration, etc. Is it not a problem that we say, on the one hand, that the country is not safe and, on the other hand, recognise that they are helping us keep people out?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142101	I believe that what I said was that I recognise that Turkey has accepted some of the refugees and has taken responsibility in one way or another. Still, there are plenty of problems. Moreover, this is not just for refugees, but for all sorts of citizens in Turkey. And I recognise what the rapporteur says, that there are problems, but I would also like to say that the agreement has had some kind of effect, compared to how many people have come to Europe. And I don't know what the alternative had imagined could be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142124	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142125	We pay Turkey to do the dirty work for us, and then we close our eyes to everything else that goes on. I think history is going to judge us hard for this, I'll tell you that. But it's a completely different matter. I have to make a reservation about our involvement in this proposal for adoption, because for me it is absolutely evident in order to be able to accept a suspension, that is, the practical suspension, which is that we cannot agree to the Secretary of State's interpretation that Turkey should be completely abandoned as a candidate country. This is a very, very bad idea, and it will have geopolitical consequences for which we will under no circumstances take responsibility in the Radical Left. I mean, it's a very unwise move. That is why I have to ask: what does it mean in concrete terms when the Foreign Minister says that the negotiations must cease altogether? We need a clear answer to that, otherwise we are not in the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142237	I know that the Radical Left also voted in favour of the same agreement that has been made in relation to Turkey. And I do not recognise what is going on in Turkey when I close my eyes. We in the Social Democratic Party have taken part in a great many legal proceedings in relation to parliamentarians who have been imprisoned. We have also done so with the Enhedslisten. If there is a party that has never been involved, it is the Radical Left. So I think it is a little strange to be attacked when it comes to accepting what is going on in Turkey. We have said clearly from that point of view. Yes, the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister have also resigned from the Turkish invasion of Syria. So I don't think that's fair. What the Prime Minister has said is that it will not be now that Turkey becomes a member. We do not see it as realistic in the future with the things that are going on. It is clear that if one day Turkey could live up to the Copenhagen criteria and basic rights, then that is another talk. But it's gonna be a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142326	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142327	I am not attacking the Social Democratic Party for that Turkey agreement. I just think it should be mentioned that I believe that history will judge us harshly for it, because there is a pronounced hypocrisy in that agreement. That is what we can hear here today. Turkey will not know anything other than when it is the case that they have to solve the dirty tasks for us, what we then pay for. I personally feel very tight about that, but peace be with it. I need a clear answer. What is the interpretation of the proposal for adoption we are currently considering here? Is it the suspension, or is it an interpretation like that, sir? Morten Messerschmidt wants Turkey no longer to be a potential candidate country? If we do not get a clear answer to that, then it is clear that we will not be able to participate either. It kind of reminds me of my father, who, when he bought me an ice cream when I was little, asked if I could have a bite? Yeah. And then you think he's gonna take a little bite like that, but all of a sudden he's gonna eat half the ice. That's what the Secretary of State is doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142441	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142442	I think it is very clear that Turkey is not currently near being able to join the European Union. It is both the previous government and the current government that have suspended these negotiations. Could it then be that Turkey can never participate? No, that is not the attitude of the Social Democratic Party. Maybe it's DF's. But at some point it is possible for Turkey, but it just has very long prospects.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142502	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142502-2	So now we in the Danish People's Party have no plans to vote in favour of the proposal for adoption that has been tabled, but I must admit that for us too it is quite unclear what is actually the position of the government. Now I know that Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is not in government, but he does know someone who is, including people who are sitting in this room, and so he might perhaps make us a little smarter on the question: that is, you want to suspend the negotiations so that they are still gone and Erdogan still gets the pockets filled with pre-accession aid, etc., but you just go and wait for it to be a little spring in Turkey, so to speak, and there comes another government, and then you drive on, or do you want to stop? I hope for the last time, because if that is the last thing that is the case, then we will look again at what is being proposed for adoption, because it is absolutely crucial for us to stop the negotiations. And if paradise should arise on this side of the apocalypse, then we must look at it again. That is not likely, but we would like to keep that discussion open. So, is it a question of suspending, or is it a question of stopping the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142602	However, we have fully supported the previous government in stopping negotiations with Turkey. What I want to say is that the difference lies in whether Turkey ever joins the European Union or not. There is our position: yes, it can happen at some point if things change. But we have, of course, supported the previous government, which chose to suspend these negotiations. This does not mean that you can never become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142627	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142628	Yeah, but there's a difference between stopping something and suspending something. Because if you suspend something, you do not stop it, you just inform the Turkish Government that the negotiations cannot run as long as things are as they are a suspension. To stop something is to put the whole process at a standstill so that there are no pre-accession transfers and there are no negotiations. If you have to start over and at some point take it up again, yes, then you start over, so the chapters that are closed today I think it is eight chapters that have been closed up have to be taken up again. It's sweet music in my ears, but I'm just not quite sure that all those you've got to give a commitment to that proposal for adoption seem to think that the same tune is worth dancing to as I do. That is why it is nice to know whether we are talking about suspension or whether we are talking about stopping the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142709	It is a little technical, but it is, of course, a suspension in that it may well be that one can eventually become a member of the European Union. However, no matter what Turkey does, the Danish People's Party will never accept Turkey's inclusion, so that is also the difference. We in the Social Democratic Party view that it may well be that Turkey, potentially in a very long time, can join the European Union. I do not think it will be in my lifetime, but that does not mean that it is never something that can ever happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142734	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142736	I have the same concerns. When you have a common proposal for adoption, there must also be a common understanding of what that text means. It is not a stop, it is a suspension, and I am glad that the Social Democrat rapporteur confirmed that in the Chair. It is a suspension that we are talking about the suspension that has already been decided. I agree that it may even take a very, very long time to resume negotiations at all, if ever. This is not the same as a stop, and that is how it was very easy to hear what the Foreign Minister had said, but we assume it was a minor outcry, so I refer to the Social Democrat rapporteur: that it is a suspension and not a stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142822	Yes, that is what the text says. I think that in this way we actually share the view of the Left that it would be nice if Turkey respected such basic human rights at some point. However, what is also important for social democracy is that, regardless of the European Union or not, it is important to continue to put pressure on Turkey to comply with basic human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142839	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. No, it was a mistake. It's sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142856	As several other rapporteurs have said, I also think it has been a bit imprecise what has come out of both the Socialist rapporteur and actually from the Foreign Minister: is it to stop or to suspend? Now I think we got the answer, and it was then to suspend, which is not very good, because it tells Turkey that we do not really mean it when we criticise them anyway. That's one. The next thing is in relation to the European Union at all, and that is what I would like to ask: is it not bad for the European Union to say things, you do things, you report things, but Turkey is completely indifferent? Isn't it really the EU's big challenge, the problem of disaster in reality that we have a collection of Western countries with the best opinions that will all things well, which have no influence whatsoever on what is going on, because Erdogan just pretends like nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031142958	Now I don't know how much sir. Peter Skaarup has been in Turkey, but I have been there many times with colleagues from the EU countries too for legal proceedings against democratically elected parliamentarians. I can say that for them it makes a big difference. We have experienced people who have come out of prison and we have experienced prison sentences being reduced due to massive international pressure. And that is what the opposition is saying to us: never forget us; remember that there are also a lot of people who do not support this regime. So, of course, it has an effect. There is at least some hypocrisy, because the Danish People's Party does not want Turkey to join because the majority are Muslims. So no matter what Turkey does, the Danish People's Party will vote against. The Danish People's Party is not really interested in any improvement in human rights in Turkey, because they will never be able to join the European Union, no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143039	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143042	To put it mildly, that was not the answer to the question. It was such a thing that there is something wrong with the Danish People's Party. But what I really asked was: is it not the huge problem of the European Union that it does not have any real influence on what is happening in Turkey at the moment and that Erdogan is pretending to be nothing? Yes, it is almost the case that when the United States says something, it is also a little difficult to correct, but you listen more to what the United States says. Is it not really the European Union's major problem, not just with regard to Turkey, but in a number of other contexts, that confidence that the European Union can really move something is very small?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143121	In fact, I think I answered the question, because Mr. Peter Skaarup asked me in the first round if I had the impression that Erdogan always didn't care. And it said that my impression from the many times that I have been in Turkey also, along with good colleagues from this Parliament, is that it actually helps something to press for the fact that it actually helps something, that the EU institutions and other assemblies are pushing Turkey. It does not do so alone, and I agree that the developments we are seeing are very worrying. But I think we must admit that there is in fact a relatively strong opposition in Turkey, which I think it is important to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143150	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143155	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur himself raises some things that I would like to hear a little more about. It is a paradox and a problem that we are paying a lot of billions of dollars to Erdogan to deal with the refugee situation, while at the same time he has hugged Europe, so I would like to hear what the Social Democrats see in relation to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143229	There are plenty of problems in this agreement, but I just find it very difficult to see what is better than talking to Turkey and having some kind of dialogue, when Turkey is a neighbour of a war-torn Syria and when they have taken 3 million refugees. Unless you want everyone to come to Western Europe, you have to talk to the countries in the vicinity of Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and other countries. But that is clearly problematic when there is the regime that is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143256	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143258	I would like to hear a concrete response, because I assume that the rapporteur fully agrees that what we see with breaches of human rights and legal proceedings that are not being dealt with is highly alarming and problematic. What does the rapporteur think we can do to try to achieve a fairer distribution of the money for refugees? Or are there perhaps some other measures that could be taken not just to hug Erdogan on Europe in the way we see it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143323-2	Hopefully, there are some large countries that are taking shape. After all, we cannot simply prevent Erdogan from moving into Syria, and there we can fear that there will be even more refugees. However, it is clear that when Trump and the United States withdrew, some major European countries could have done something but failed their responsibilities. I really think the government has been quite clear about what we think of that invasion. We are one of the few governments in Europe that has condemned this invasion very clearly. However, some large countries, France and Germany, should have done something more a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143353	Thank you. Then I don't have any more questioners on the list. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143414	Thank you. There is not much good to say about developments in Turkey. It goes the wrong way, and it does so in virtually every area. After the 2016 coup attempt, we have seen how more than 100,000 civil servants have been fired or suspended without trial or any other opportunity to defend themselves. Over 35,000 people have been arrested. If you speak critically, you are threatened with violence and prosecution. Erdogan has said he wants to reinstate the death penalty, but he has not yet done so. The Internet and independent media are closed and taken over by state-friendly media. Peaceful demonstrators meet with violence, water guns, tear gas and torture, and rape of prisoners has been reported after the attempted coup. Legal certainty has been weakened. Judges will be transferred, harassed, threatened, imprisoned or fired if they do not do what the regime wants. Turkey has recently launched a military offensive against the Kurds in Syria, and when Turkey is then condemned, it threatens to open its borders and send 3.6 million refugees to Europe. Against this background, it is quite, quite difficult to imagine Turkey as a member of the European Union ever. And that is also why the quite strong reaction was taken, that the accession negotiations with Turkey have simply been suspended. They are figuratively located in a deep freezer, and the deep freezer gets colder and colder. However, this is not the same as the fact that we cannot have the hope that democratic forces in Turkey will eventually gain the upper hand. After all, Turkey has been a very different place years ago from where they are today. And Turkey... we have to recognise that... is a member of NATO. Turkey lies where it is, and therefore it is also important that we do not completely cut ourselves off from any kind of dialogue with Turkey, however unpleasant we feel that the current regime, with President Erdogan in the lead, is behaving. So, on this basis, we can support the proposal for adoption. It is important to send another signal to Turkey that what is going on is absolutely reprehensible, and it is important that we, as Parliament, are behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143645	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143649	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now the rapporteur himself said that Erdogan is threatening to open up the borders. What does the rapporteur think we should do about this problem that we have somehow created ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143707	Well, foreign policy is a dilemma, and foreign policy is not something you can do without getting dirt on your hands. That's the way it is. The agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey is very good in many ways, and nobody can question the fact that the refugees in the camps in Turkey are better off with the billions we have sent from the European Union than they would otherwise have. On the other hand, it is also a threat that Turkey will simply trigger such a flood of refugees if you do not get what you want or if we criticise them too hard. So it is very dilemmaous, but we are behind the EU-Turkey agreement. This is one of the things that shows how strong the European Union is when we stand together. There is no one here, I think, who imagines the qualities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs unsaid that Denmark alone could have got such an agreement in place with Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143800	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143801	Thank you. But I also think that the rapporteur agrees that the violations of human rights that we see when some of the fundamental democratic principles are put out of hand are problematic. Does the rapporteur not think that there is something else that can be done so that we can get out of this squeeze, out of this dilemma, as the rapporteur called it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143823	I am not quite sure that I understood the question, to be completely honest. In other words, there is no doubt that many of the things that are going on are serious violations of human rights. We are in complete agreement with that. But that was a rather too open question for me to actually think I can make a qualified offer for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143842	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143846	Thank you, President. I noted several times with the rapporteur that the current regime is being talked about as the reason why Turkey cannot join. There are many good reasons for this. If we then put on the positive glasses and hope that perhaps in 10 or 20 years' time a pro-Western democratic government will emerge, based on the same values as the European Union and so on, then I understand Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that there will be a positive attitude towards taking Turkey along. But what assurance does Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen to ensure that the pendulum at that time does not turn back in Islamist direction again, so that a country is allowed in, which at the negotiating point is provocative, but which may, at the end of ten years, become Islamist? That is what has been the interaction in Turkey since the founding of modern Turkey. So what is it that assures Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said that the interaction or pendulum between the two extremes, Kemalism and Islamism, would stop out at Kemalism if they were once taken into the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031143955	I do not think it is realistic in ten years' time, unfortunately not in 20 years' time either. No guarantees are given. In general, it is difficult to predict the future, as my city child Robert Storm Petersen said at the time. You can look at some of the other countries that have joined the European Union. If I had been asked in 1985 whether it was realistic for Poland or Hungary to join the European Union, I would have said: No, it is Communist dictatorships that are on the wrong side of the Iron Curtain; of course that cannot happen. And then everything that happened in 1989 when we saw the Iron Curtain fall, the Berlin Wall fall, etc. and later the accession negotiations with Anders Fogh Rasmussen in the lead, who said: We have an agreement. And they had Communist dictatorship replaced by market economy and membership of the European Union. But there is no guarantee that those countries will not develop in an anti-democratic direction either. Some of the things we are currently seeing in Hungary, for example, are worrying. So guarantees are not given. Guarantees for how countries develop are not given. I agree, however, that, to say the least, developments in Turkey have been fluctuating.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144105	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144106	Indeed, it can be said that during the time the European Union has negotiated with Turkey, it has gone in the wrong direction. But there is something rather disturbing about the comparison, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is doing with Turkey and Poland/Hungary because we are dealing with a Muslim country in which we must attribute the eclipse of the country that has taken place over the last 20 years, a cultural awakening, not a political development. The same is true in many other Muslim countries where we have seen a democratic upsurge. I even think that our current Foreign Minister spoke very strongly for what was called the Arab Spring, which ended in a very, very dark winter. So it's like a phenomenon we see in many Muslim countries: this struggle between the two forces isn't the kemalists of all the others; it's a Turkish phenomenon of democrats and Islamists, and isn't there therefore a separate problem with taking a country with 80 million Muslims into the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144201	I mean, I don't think religion is unchangeable, and I don't think there's only one way to be a Muslim. I just don't. And to say that a country with an x number of Muslims can never ever become democratic is a way of thinking that I simply cannot follow at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144220	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the Radical Left rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144234	In fact, I am tempted just to say that I fully agree with every word that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has said here from the platform in this question. And then you could just leave it at that, because things don't necessarily get right by repeating them. However, I think it should be said that in foreign policy, when you are dealing with it, there is never something as tempting as being categorical and saying that we do not want that and that we will not tolerate it and that now it ends. That's the dumbest thing you can do in foreign policy. For as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says that in foreign policy, if you want to change something, you have to talk to everyone you absolutely do not want to talk to. It is simply a premise when it comes to foreign policy. And you have to have something to put it on there. One of the important things here is, of course, a matter of agreeing to inheritance and debt. We can, of course, reasonably discuss whether accession negotiations with Turkey should ever have been started at the time, but what is the point of that discussion? This is a counter-productive discussion. In politics, you have to stand by inheritance and debt, or everything ends. As I mentioned earlier from my place in an earlier question to the Foreign Minister, the situation is that when Angela Merkel said something that Erdogan perceived as a humiliation, in other words it perceived that the European Union had been negotiating in horror throughout the whole period, precisely by saying that it should never have started and that we should offer them a privileged partnership instead, there was a reaction. You have to be aware that what you do always has a price. Nothing is free. Therefore, you have to be very careful about what kind of words you use. This is not just a semantic discussion, and it is not just a technical discussion, I would say to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. It is, in fact, a question of where the cut in the foreign policy that is being pursued, Denmark and the European Union are being put together here. That's why it's so important for us to get an answer to what this means. Does this cease and will Turkey cease to be a candidate country? Is that what you announce, or is it a suspension? It is possible that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen thinks he got an answer that comforted him. I haven't had an answer that comforts me. Because we are not helping to declare Turkey a non-candidate country. Because where does it leave the opposition? It is of course interesting to hear that we must not abandon the opposition in these countries, but that is what we are doing if we have nothing to offer at the other end, that is, if we write things off in advance and write off a development that can happen in advance. We know how fast developments can happen in countries around the world. Today's enemy can be a friend tomorrow, etc., and that's what happens all the time. That is why it is so incredibly important that we get clarification here. The worst thing we can do is leave countries without perspective. That is, in fact, what I think is a bit of a problem in relation to the Prime Minister's very categorical way of saying that North Macedonia and Albania cannot be candidate countries and that we do not have room to accept anyone at this time and that we are not interested in that. Well, it is possible that we are in a situation which makes it more difficult at this stage, but at the moment you announce it that way, you leave some countries with no perspective. I can't help thinking about what would have happened. After all, we have often had that discussion • Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also promises to do so on the Eastern European countries, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also mentions. When the Wall fell, was it too fast that we recorded them? Yes, you can go into that in substance and argue for it, but it was a historic necessity. The alternative was that we had left them in a new no-man's-land, and what had happened to them, for example. the Russia we know today? That is why we need to be extremely careful when discussing foreign policy, about making such categorical cuts, where they say that sometime after the apocalypse, but not before etc. That is why I still lack an answer from the Foreign Minister as to how the proposal for adoption we have made here should be interpreted precisely. It is not technology, it is not semantics, it is foreign policy, and it is on the highest blade, and the Foreign Minister knows that well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144736	Thank you. There is a brief comment. It's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144741	We used to have mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, who is such a semi-blood radical, and now we have a full-blood radical on the platform. That is why, of course, I just cannot help asking whether Mr. Jens Rohde has the world view that countries with a dominant Muslim population can develop completely as freely and democratically as countries in the Christian culture circle. Looking at the recent 150-200 years of world history, it is quite clear that where democracy has developed and where the freedoms and, by the way, the renaissance and the whole, yes, the thinking that came out of it, have become established, of course, in the European countries, in the Christian world, where the secularity is distinguished from religious, etc., whereas in all the Muslim countries, although there have been good attempts by many groups, it has always been struck back by a darkened Islamism. Recognizes Mr. Jens Rohde that relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144841	Before I pass on the floor, I just remind you of the indictments, for goodness' sake, how to put your words on. It's just a friendly reminder. We shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031144855	I actually think that Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt's question is a confession matter. It's a confession case. It does not really matter what is ever going to happen in Turkey. Morten Messerschmidt's side against having something to do with Turkey about religion. That is a fair position. I don't share that. Christianity has also been surrounded by darkened forces once, and no one can come here and say that things cannot evolve. At any rate, we can be sure that there will be no development at all if we push everyone who wants to go the other way and does not want to be darkened from us in advance. Then it is true that we leave them in the power of the darkened forces, and I do not think the world has an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145000	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145004	But does the rapporteur accept that, for the development of a country, culture and religion mean something, and that, therefore, it is not only possible to equate the developments which have taken place, for example, in Eastern European countries, which are based on a Christian thought and which are therefore able to throw away the black yoke of Communism and move in a free direction, whereas in the Islamic countries, the black yoke of Islamism will always have a way into the hearts of the people, because it speaks not the tongue of logic but the tongue of emotions and religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145044	I have to say, sir. Morten Messerschmidt speaks the tongue of emotion all the time. It's kind of funny that sir. Morten Messerschmidt now talks about how fantastic these Christian Eastern European societies could free themselves from the yoke of communism and thus qualify to join the European Union, since the Danish People's Party has been against them all the way. There's no doubt about that. I think that is a contradiction. I do not see that it is the open arms that have influenced the Danish People's Party in relation to Eastern Europe. And that's the way it is, because it's all strangers, like sir. Morten Messerschmidt prefers to be outside, so Denmark can close itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145127	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145130	It was just a point of order that I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145141	Yeah, and I rehearsed, too, reminding you of the charges. I also have the impression that this has just been taken on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145150	I know you cannot discuss with the President, but I simply do not know who said you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145159	Then I'll ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, if he wants another round. He doesn't want that, so it's settled. Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Balder Dark Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145222	Thank you, President, and thank you, not least, to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate here today. This is an extremely important debate and the European Union's relations with its neighbouring area, including Turkey, are, for many reasons, highly topical. At the same time, the debate on possible EU enlargements has recently been re-examined with discussions on EU enlargement with Albania and Northern Macedonia. In fact, the SF has long believed that there would be prospects for Turkey to become a member of the European Union, particularly in terms of security policy because of the situation in the Middle East, but also to support positive internal developments in Turkey and the situation of its minorities. That is why we have been supporting Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union for many years. Of course, that support only makes sense if Turkey meets the Copenhagen criteria on democracy, market economy, the safeguarding of fundamental rights and the proper functioning of the legal system. It only makes sense if there is no arbitrary imprisonment of regime critics, systematic disregard of basic rights and gross violations of international law and law. In general, it is a prerequisite for democratic development in Turkey, which has been the premise of the SF. In the past, the SF has been sceptical about interrupting the negotiations because we felt that it would be counterproductive in terms of the possibilities of influencing Turkey. However, it is clear that, following recent developments in northern Syria, we are now in a new situation. There comes a time when we have to stop and ask ourselves whether this is not the time for us to react. Because if we can now see that Turkey is moving as much towards an autocratic and perhaps almost dictatorial regime as possible, and if Turkey is as aggressive as it can possibly imagine in relation to the situation in Syria and is bombing and attacking the forces that have helped in the fight against the Islamic State, then it is that we have to stop, understood in the sense that if there is any sense whatsoever that we have the possibility of suspending the negotiations, then it is now. That also says that it is, of course, the SF's interpretation that this is a suspension, as the Socialist rapporteur has also confirmed, and which we also expect the Foreign Minister to conclude later on by confirming. However, the SF is of the opinion that there should not necessarily be a permanent cessation of EU enlargement negotiations with Turkey. We still believe that it makes sense for Turkey to have a European perspective, both for security policy and for many other reasons. But it is obvious that this presupposes a completely different positive democratic development from that which Erdogan has long led. That is why we want to support the proposal for adoption put forward by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145515	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is for Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031145535	Thank you for putting our relationship with Turkey on the agenda. It is a highly topical issue, as several people have also mentioned, and two big bold lines have been put under how important a subject it is. It is no secret that we in the Enhedslist want us to use the opportunity to put economic pressure on Turkey to stop the attacks in the Kurdish territories of Syria. It is an invasion which is a direct attack on pro-democratic and Kurdish allies in the fight against the Islamic State, and already the list of victims of Erdogan's invasion in north-east Syria is long. Turkish military and Turkish-supported Islamic mercenaries have bombed civilian urban areas and executed civilians on the open street and are also accused of using chemical weapons. The consequence of Erdogan's invasion in Northern Syria is that 100,000 have been hunted on the run and even more are in danger of having to follow. The totally inhumane attack by Turkey against the Kurds and the civilian population must and must be stopped. Unfortunately, we do not actually have any more action in the light of this development, and the same applies to the fact that we are dealing with some people who have stood and held the fort against the Islamic State. And when you look at it in that light, we actually think that both the Danish Government and the European Union have been sitting on their hands. It does not have to be that way, because we are not powerless in the face of what is happening in Turkey and in northern Syria at the moment. We could put much more pressure on Erdogan and the Turkish regime to stop the repression and the acts of war. The political opposition is being imprisoned, and the leaders of the leading opposition party, HDP, are being imprisoned, like several other members of the party's parliament, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned. And it can be said that in this way over 5 million voters have been deprived of their elected representatives in the Turkish Parliament, and a large number of Kurdish mayors have also been forcibly removed and imprisoned. This means that millions of citizens in the Kurdish municipalities have also been deprived of their local elected representatives. As recently as October 15 this year, a group of mayors were arrested. Instead, the municipalities are led by administrators appointed by the Erdogan regime, and these administrators fire professionally organised employees and introduce Erdogan's stick-conservative and Islamist legislation in an undemocratic way, which, for example, targets equality initiatives with closures of e.g. women's crisis centres. But the parliamentarians and mayors are not alone in Turkish prisons. Tens of thousands of journalists, judges, lawyers, academics, professionally active women's defenders and lggt-persons and activists are also behind bars because of peaceful democratic activities. And there are still reports that in recent times this repression has only been intensified in the light of Turkey's invasion of Northern Syria, where among others. Hundreds of people in Turkey have been detained, criticising Turkey's invasion on the social media. All these parts speak together their very clear language. The situation in Turkey is totally unacceptable and it is extremely important that Denmark does something significant here. We all agree here in the Folketing that it is totally unacceptable what Turkey is doing right now, and the next step should be to push Turkey financially, so that we also put action behind words. Every year we have also discussed this in the past, after all, the EU is giving billions of tax dollars to Erdogan as part of the accession negotiations between the European Union and Turkey. In 2019 alone, 2.9 billion will be provided. kr. to Turkey as part of the accession process, and next year the same amount has been planned. It is therefore money that is taken from European taxpayers and put in the pocket of the despot Erdogan, and that is totally unacceptable. That is why we have been pushing for years for the suspension of accession negotiations with Turkey. Suspension of negotiations with Turkey would be like shutting down hot water for Erdogan. The European Parliament has already agreed that they want to do something and that action must be taken. Together with the suspension of the EU customs union with Turkey, which has brought great benefits to the Turkish Government, it will push Erdogan much more than he has been so far. I think it is important to emphasise that if the European Union really means it and wants to support the decision that has been taken, and if we in the Danish Parliament can also get the government to stop the invasion in Northern Syria and stop the repression of the democratic opposition, the EU box must be slammed in. Now is the time for urgent action and not just empty words.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150038	That is why we support the suspension of EU accession negotiations with Erdogan's Turkey. It simply does not make sense to negotiate EU membership with a country that imprisons its democratically elected opposition. In view of the very problematic situation in Turkey and the country's invasion of North-East Syria, the Danish Government is calling for the immediate suspension of accession negotiations between the EU and Turkey, including the suspension of financial support from the EU to Turkey through so-called pre-accession aid. Parliament reiterates its criticism of the negative developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and the violation of fundamental human rights by Turkey. Parliament reiterates its condemnation of Turkey's military intervention in north-east Syria. Parliament calls on the government to work to ensure that the European Parliament resolution on the Turkish military operation in north-east Syria and its consequences is implemented in accordance with the resolution's demands for targeted economic sanctions against the Turkish Government, the imposition of a full arms embargo on Turkey and, ultimately, the suspension of the EU-Turkey customs union. • V 8). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150150	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150155	Now we have had a lot of semantics about suspension and stopping, and I understand that Enhedslisten will end up in the group of parties that are in favour of suspending. In other words, the negotiations will not be stopped. This is so implicit that one can therefore imagine that Turkey will eventually have to negotiate again for membership and, in the long term, become a member of the European Union. What kind of Turkey does Mrs Victoria Velasquez imagine could join the European Union? And is it really a malicious act because it will make the European Union so inedible that it will be easier for Mrs Victoria Velasquez to get the Danes out of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150239	Thank you for the question from the rapporteur. There are several things we attach importance to. First of all, it is about the democratic forces in Turkey themselves asking for a suspension, because it could help put pressure on them and strengthen their position. That is precisely the point of our criticism of the European Union that it should be up to the people themselves to decide what should happen. So, if the people want Turkey to join the European Union, the people must, of course, have the opportunity to do so if they meet the requirements of human rights, workers' rights and the other conditions for accession.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150317	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150319	I am very pleased with the emphasis on the will of the people. Should we not then also hear the wishes of the people of Europe, for example. by holding a referendum when that day comes, so that if Turkey is able to join the European Union, and if so, is it Turkey, as Mrs Velasquez imagines in a probably relatively distant future, then that will only happen if everyone has wanted it and so that a vote will be taken in all the Member States of the European Union if it comes to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150346	As a starting point, we welcome referendums. We believe that this can help to create an important debate and enable people to have a better chance of influencing what needs to be done and to guide decision-makers in the decisions to be taken. However, I have not taken a specific position on how a referendum would be like this, but I think that is an interesting idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150410	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line and we have reached Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150431	Thank you. When I had to prepare for today, I went in and found three debates that we had in the last session about the same thing, and I was reading through what I said then, and fortunately I agree with myself, which is always nice. The situation in Turkey has been listed by several rapporteurs, and I do not need to repeat that. After all, these are absolutely terrible attacks on democratic institutions, with the imprisonment of elected politicians, the imprisonment of journalists, human rights activists, and also the people of Libya are under strong pressure on their rights and so on. etc. On top of that, we are now faced with Turkey's invasion of northern Syria and the attack on the Kurdish people we are seeing there. This simply means repeating what was said on 5 May 2017, 8 December 2016 and 16 November 2016, namely that we must, of course, suspend accession negotiations with Turkey. However, as I have also mentioned all the times we have discussed it in the past, the most important place to hit Erdogan now and here on the economy. Unfortunately, the European Union has made a refugee agreement with Turkey, where we have looked at everything we usually stand up for in relation to international agreements, respect for human rights and our values, because in doing so we could keep people away from Europe's borders. That is one of the things I think we should take very seriously and say stop for: stop for the refugee agreement that has been made; stop to send billions of people to Turkey and hence Erdogan's regime. One is that we have helped, and this can be done in many ways, in dealing with the refugees who are in Turkey, with help to NGOs, etc. But something else is what we have done, namely to support Erdogan's regime. It has also been revealed that EU funds have been used in relation to border guard vehicles, etc.This applies to border guarding into Syria, where Turkey wanted to keep refugees out of Turkey, in other words to keep them inside a civil war-torn country. So, from the point of view of the alternative, we believe that we should suspend the negotiations with Turkey and that we should hit them on the wallet. After all, I have been listening to the proposals for adoption that have been read out, and I have to say that what has just been read out of the Enhedslisten, we can see much better than what was previously read out by the Social Democrats, because we cannot recognise everything Turkey does and does of good things to deal with irregular migration, etc., because I think that the way in which the European Union has paid off from the way Erdogan now handles this kind of thing is reprehensible. So we can support the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption, because it is about hitting Erdogan and his regime on the wallet, and then, of course, it is about hopefully seeing a development in Turkey that will allow us to restart negotiations on accession to the European Union. It would be fantastic if we were to expand our cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150759	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150803	Thank you for the floor. I very much agree with the criticism made by the rapporteur of the current situation, among other things. on the issue of refugees. But I would like to know what the alternative is that you could do instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150818-2	As we have been talking about since this agreement began to be discussed, it is, of course, about establishing a common asylum system in the European Union, so that we can deal with the refugees who are now coming to the European Union, and that, of course, we are distributing the burden of dealing with the people who come here, and then, of course, it is about interventions to a much greater extent in the neighbourhood, about helping those countries in which many refugees are dealt with financially and in other ways. However, it is, of course, primarily a question of establishing a common European asylum policy. That is the only way we can deal with the challenges we face with refugees worldwide. We must remember that out of the many, many millions of people in the world on the run and internally displaced, only a very small part is going towards Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150903	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150905	Thank you for your answer. What does the rapporteur think about the use of the United Nations quota system and possibly the strengthening of the United Nations quota system? I'd like to hear that. And I would like to ask: what does the rapporteur think prevents us from doing the things that the rapporteur mentioned in his earlier speech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031150922	As far as the United Nations system is concerned, we have said before that we should take 2 000 quota refugees now and here. However, the fact that we are strengthening the United Nations quota system does not mean that we should not take care of those refugees who suddenly come to the border, that is, spontaneous asylum seekers. We also have to deal with them, as the conventions say, and that is where we believe we should have a common European asylum system. What stands in the way is a lack of political will, and that has been the case since the start of this agreement with Turkey. I had the former Minister for Foreign Affairs in a not small number of consultations; I think we need to get up to two or three hands to count the number of consultations I had on the way the EU has chosen not to deal with the refugee issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151008	Then it's mr. Balder Dark Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151011	Thank you. As you know, in security policy and geopolitics, the tongue must be kept very straight in the mouth. On the other side of the Atlantic, we see how the President of the United States conducts foreign policy on Twitter at the cost of overall security in the world. When the alternative says that we should hit Erdogan on the wallet, meaning that it brings good things with it, I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur if one could imagine that there are other rulers in this world with a perhaps bigger purse and with greater security uncertainty for the European Union and for the Middle East and for the whole world?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151100	That's an interesting question from the SF. I know that the alternative and the SF actually share policy in this area and also the view that we should hit the wallet, so that we should not send billions to Erdogan to keep refugees out of Europe, but rather deal with refugees in Europe. And yes, the danger is that some people are standing and accepting on the other side, but I also believe that this is about us standing up in the European Union for the values on which we are building and that we are not giving them up because we are afraid that refugees will come to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151127	Sir. Balder Dark Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151128	It is quite true that we in the SF would very much like to see common solutions to the problems of migration in Europe, but we are also so screwed up that we believe that security policy is also sometimes about pragmatism and what to say is a reading of the situation as it is security policy. So we have a Putin on the other side, which also rattles with its sabers, and we must be very careful that we do not give Erdogan what to say about the full opening to search for Putin, which is ready. Because then I'm thinking, who's gonna suffer from it in the end? That's what SF's focus is. Is that the civilian population, is it the Kurds? That's our focus. How can we ensure that there is no further loss of human life?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151217	If I could make sure, I'd be happy to do it, but we just can't. So far, we have sent billions and billions to Erdogan's regime, which among other things. has been used to push the civilian population and to border controls on Syria, which has also led to the loss of human life. So we're gonna keep sending billions? In fact, I thought we shared an opinion with the SF, but I can hear that that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151240	Thank you. And then it's sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151243	Then I can say to the alternative that it is certainly a discussion that I think we should definitely take, in other words how we deal with this. For once again, it is a question of paying some to carry out a task that we cannot find common ground on in Europe. And, to put it mildly, it's not very pretty to look at. After all, the SF mentions Russia, and I know that it is not Russia's discussion, but I just think that I would like to make the call that we in the Folketing might have a broader discussion of our relationship with Russia. For Russia has laid down in one place, and there is a great deal wrong with Putin, which could be mentioned, but perhaps Europe has also placed itself in a place where we are preventing ourselves from solving some problems, because we do not find a key to how to deal with Russia. And that discussion seems to me to have been simplistic over the years after Ukraine, which is why I would just like to call for a broader discussion to be held in the Danish Parliament and also in the European Union. Because it is much more complex than that, and Russia is, in many ways, the key to solving many of the things that are going on around it. And as I said before, we need to talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151414	Well, I think that Europe and the European Union have in many ways put themselves in check on a number of things that are going on globally politically right now, precisely because we are afraid to deal with the things that need to be done. We cannot manage to deal with the refugee crisis, and then we go out and make an agreement like we have with Erdogan. We cannot deal with it, and then we go out and make such half-agreements instead of having the basic discussion. I believe that we need a much stronger common foreign policy in order to deal with these things. And that means that we have to put an end to the notion of a very nationalistic foreign policy in each small Member State and instead look at: how can we act together? This is a discussion that we must take, and yes, thank you for the call that Mr. Jens Rohde will come along to discuss the situation around Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151456	Sir. Jens Rohde apostates. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then I have the New Citizens' rapporteur on the list, but I do not see him here. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151511	Thank you. I think it is a difficult issue that we are dealing with here too because there are many, I do not think, who do not say what it is really about. Turkey is a necessary partner for us in Denmark in Europe and in the West at all. We saw this most recently in relation to the migrant crisis back in 2015 • the migrant crisis is the right word; the refugee crisis is a wrong word • where Turkey offered itself in an agreement with the EU in relation to putting an end to migratory flows. We can also see that Turkey is an important partner as a NATO member on security issues and, therefore, as an important country in conflicts related to the Middle East, because of its geographical proximity to the Middle East. But that should not lead to Turkey being deceived, so that it holds a carrot in front of them, which we may never have intended to give them; I do not think that is honest. Then we should rather cultivate the common interests we have and pay where payment is necessary to have a good ally, instead of pretending to Turkey that at some point they might become members of the European Union, because I do not think Turkey will ever do that. And this has to do with the fact that the statements that come from people who say that at some point Turkey might become a member of the European Union are basically not credible. Turkey has just had a changeable history and has a very different cultural background to that of the Western countries. And I simply believe that the nervousness in Europe and the European countries of how Turkey develops in the future will never be able to disappear, even if Turkey has had positive developments for a decade or two decades. It will always be feared that, ten years further into the future or 20 years further into the future, Turkey will develop in a way that does not want to share an EU community with Turkey. After all, this is not just about nation to nation, it is also about the fact that within the European Union there are open borders and that people at one end of the European Union can be moved to the other end of the European Union if they want to. And is there anyone in this House who imagines that the European Union would be open to any Turk who wants to settle in Denmark, France or Germany? Does the Radical Left, which speaks so warmly about Turkey perhaps entering the European Union at some point, believe that it would be unproblematic if the entire Turkish population had an unhindered right to settle in Denmark? There are, of course, some people in this debate who are not dealing with the real problem, which is that it is a culturally very foreign country which we do not want to have a relationship with where the people of that country have free access to settle in our country. So I think that we should have very good cooperation with Turkey and make it understandable to Turkey that we appreciate cooperation with them, that we consider it important and necessary and that we are willing to fill in our part of this kind of cooperation, but that we should speak more honestly about the fact that we do not see it as likely that Turkey will ever become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151930	There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031151943	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for the debate. Let me make it clear at the outset that there is no doubt, and we have also debated our joint proposal for adoption: the situation is, of course, the one that everyone knows that when we look at the negotiations between the European Union and Turkey on membership, they have actually been suspended over the last few years. I also mentioned this in my opening speech. It can be said that negotiations between the European Union and Turkey have de facto been suspended, in other words, they have ceased to exist as they are today, and there is a good reason for this. For what we see today under Erdogan is unfortunately moving in the wrong direction in terms of the rule of law, human rights and democracy, and it is clear that that is where it stands. Therefore, it is also very important to send a clear signal to Turkey, and especially to Erdogan, that the path he has chosen to take in that country is not a European path and that we are responding strongly to this by the European Union. It is just to say that, when negotiations have been de facto suspended, that does not mean that Turkey is not still a candidate country for the European Union. We also remember, when countries are admitted to the European Union, that they will first become a candidate country, then accession negotiations will begin, and then there will be some processes afterwards. So it's just to make it clear in relation to the debate. Then there will also be more taking up Turkey's role. When you have 3.6 million or up to 4 million refugees in your country that Turkey has, that is a huge task, and I would just like to emphasise that the aid we also give to Turkey is not for Erdogan, but for the people, for the refugees, and for the organisations that deal with the many refugees in Turkey. I think it is very good that they are getting the help, both for those people, for those refugees who would otherwise have had even more difficult conditions, and indeed, of course, it will also have a spill-over effect on the Turkish economy, to help refugees, but our aim is to help the refugees who are in Turkey, and we believe, as I said, that it is wise and sensible to help people in the neighbourhood. After all, when we hope that there will be peace in Syria, when there is a political transition in Syria, the aim is once again for those people to return to the country from which they have fled. This is ultimately important. Then various questions are asked: what is it really necessary to suspend the enlargement negotiations with Turkey? Because it has not been formally decided, because there is no majority in favour of it among the Member States of the European Union. It can be in the event of serious and persistent violations of human rights and fundamental principles by Turkey, and then the Commission or one third of the Member States can recommend a suspension of negotiations and conditions for resumption. A qualified majority is then required to adopt such a suspension. It is therefore my clear opinion that such a majority in relation to suspending the negotiations does not exist today. That is the way the situation is. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks: why does the EU not suspend pre-accession aid to Turkey? The rapporteur mentioned this. It can be said that Turkey, as a candidate country, is covered by pre-accession aid in line with the candidate countries in the Western Balkans, and as a starting point Denmark cannot prevent this, even though Denmark does not believe that Turkey, as it now appears, should be a member of the European Union. However, the Foreign Affairs Council decided, where I myself was, on 15 July this year, in 2019, to reduce pre-accession assistance to Turkey by 2020, nor can it be excluded that the EU circle will agree on further restrictions or suspension. I think it's hard to guess at this point. I believe that the situation is being monitored very closely. So I would like to say that I think this has been a good debate, but I would also like to say that, as I said, we have a fundamental interest in being clear about the values on which the European Union is based: the rule of law. After all, the Copenhagen criteria, which were adopted in 1993, are both about the rule of law, respect human rights, the functioning of the market economies, and they are also about a fourth thing that is sometimes forgotten in the debate, namely that the existing Member States of the European Union must be ready to absorb the new countries. It was also one of the things that was adopted in Copenhagen at the time. That also means that for a number of rapporteurs, too, Mr President. Jens Rohde, mentioned the debate on enlargement in general, the debate on enlargement, that I think it is very important that we are honest about the challenges that exist, including with the countries seeking membership of the European Union. This applies not only to Turkey but also to the countries of the Western Balkans. It should not be an enlargement debate, but I would just like to say that when we set up criteria that must be met as a country, for example. The fight against corruption, reform of one's legal sector, ensuring that one's rule of law works properly, freedom of the media, etc., we must also stick to the fact that those merits must be met before a country can move forward in a process. I believe that this is important for the credibility of the enlargement process, and I would just like to say that I look with concern at the EU cooperation we have today, where we have some internal challenges in complying with the rule of law already in existing EU cooperation. So I think that, for the sake of EU cooperation, as some of us are very concerned about, cooperation must be effective, good and trusting and based on clear values. It is important to be honest about the challenges of the enlargement process. This does not mean that anyone should be deprived of a European perspective. I think it is very important that there should be a European perspective for countries, for example. in the Western Balkans; this is an important incentive for the countries to reform and get out of the situation they are in and move towards European values and the rule of law and the democratic principles on which we are based. However, I believe that the honesty of some of the internal challenges facing the European Union with the rule of law and other things in EU cooperation, and the external demands on how we want it to be a merit-based approach to enlargement, are very important to stand firm. And that honesty and that discussion is not a matter of keeping someone out, but of ensuring that the EU countries cooperate properly and be honest about the challenges they face. I think that's what's best for you. I think that if you close your eyes to these things, European cooperation will be a disservice, and I do not think that serves anyone's interest. I would also, of course, like to thank you for the proposal for adoption by the majority of parties, the Social Democrats, the Left, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, and, of course, call for a vote in favour of the proposal, which I think strikes a very good balance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031152707	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031152711	It will be exciting to see, when we come to the vote, who will end up supporting the wording. I think there were a number of consensual remarks in the Foreign Minister's speech here, among others. on reduced pre-accession aid, etc. Well, that's happy. However, the premiss remains with the Foreign Minister that as long as we negotiate with Turkey, they are moving in our direction. I just can't see that. I believe it is in 1997, Erdogan sits in the mayor's chair for the first time, then for Refah Partisi. Since then, it's just gone in the wrong direction. So what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs base the assumption that negotiating with the European Union should lead to something good? On the contrary, I have the impression that Erdogan repeatedly uses the demands of the European Union for reform in Turkish society as a scaremonger for why he and his Islamist friends should be voted on and against the secular forces.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031152818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031152820	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. In fact, when accession negotiations with Turkey began in 2005, reforms in Turkey were progressing rapidly over a period of time. It would be desirable for this pace of reform to be maintained. Unfortunately, it is not and, as other rapporteurs have said, among other things. Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, it is of course another Turkey that is today under Erdogan's leadership, unfortunately. That is why we must deal with the situation as it is today. I think it is important to have a balanced approach. There is also an opposition, a democratic opposition in Turkey. There are forces fighting for freedom of the media, freedom of expression. We had an election in Istanbul, where there was actually a new mayor who did not belong to the ruling party. So we need to be aware of the complexity of the country too. That is why we have a core interest in working with them and finding solutions that both benefit democratic forces, but also benefit ourselves and the interests we have from Danish and European.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031152928	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031152929	I also understand the argument, but the paradox is that, at the time I believe ten years ago, we have repeatedly and persistently seen Erdogan present ourselves to the Islamic or conservative section of the Turkish public as the defender of the country against the tradition of freedom, individual tradition or democratic process that the European Union is trying to push down the country and that Erdogan is thus using the EU reform trail to secure its own power base. So, in this way, EU applications become counter-productive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153011	I think we need to have an open and honest discussion about the dilemmas that exist in relation to our cooperation with Turkey. I would like to say to Mr. Mr Messerschmidt, as I have said, I think we have an interest in cooperation, also in standing firm when Turkey and Erdogan do some things that we so much disagree with, for example. the military operation in North East Syria. That is quite clear. The question may also be asked of Europe's interest in relations with Turkey. I think we actually have an interest, of course, in securing and supporting the democratic forces, but also in ensuring that Turkey can be financially linked. It can be said that if a country is under economic pressure, it can sometimes take action in general, which is not always in our interest. We must also be aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153103	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153106	I should just like to say that I agree with virtually every word of what the Foreign Minister has said now from the Parliament's Chair of the Parliament. Of course, we must do everything possible in relation to democracy, human rights and so on. But you just have to be careful, as the Foreign Minister himself says what you are doing. If we now take a different situation: what we did on the European side in relation to Ukraine when we had all the accession/partnership negotiations. There we did with a very, very dogmatic attitude the whole thing to such a question about Julia Tymoshenka. Then we pushed Janukovych more and more towards Putin, and all of a sudden we had actually helped shoot that process in the foot and shoot ourselves in the foot. You just have to keep in mind that sometimes you can get into such a situation. However, I am very pleased with the Foreign Minister's reply now and welcome the fact that we can retain our place in the proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153225	I have no comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153230	Sir. Jens Rohde, round two? No, he's gonna drop out. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153232	Thank you. I have a small question, because we have also discussed this refugee agreement and all the money we are sending down to Erdogan, and I heard the Foreign Minister it may be that I did not hear it 100% precisely say that it went to dealing with the refugees, because of the fact that there were many refugees down there, and then it could be infecting the Turkish economy a bit. But I think that of the statements we have seen about what this money has gone to, money has also gone directly to Erdogan's regime through all sorts of detours and so on. I know, of course, that the Minister himself has been sitting in the European Parliament, where we have also had access to the tables sent by the Commission on where the money was precisely sent. So it is just to clarify that all the money has not gone directly to dealing with refugees. Money has also been sent to Erdogan's regime, to health care, to border controls, etc. So it's just to have the precision of it compared to the billions we sent down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153326	After all, this Turkish facility supports Turkey's handling of the large flows of mainly Syrian refugees in Turkey. At present, approx. 4 million Tell him in the country. These are very vulnerable people, as I mentioned earlier. There is agreement among the Member States, the Commission and the Court of Auditors that the Turkey Facility has given good support to the refugees. The vast majority of projects have achieved their objectives. The Turkey Facility has helped solve a massive problem with a clear humanitarian aim. It can be said that Turkey's actions should not, of course, affect the refugees, but at this stage there are no concrete proposals for the payment of new funds to this facility. But it's just to stress that the money has gone to refugees. It is clear that, in relation to some of the many refugees who are in the country, agreements are being made with, for example. the Turkish health system, as the rapporteur has said, to deal with some benefits for refugees, and this, of course, indirectly benefits Turkish health care, but the objective of helping refugees is something that that money has largely gone to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153432	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153434	Yeah, yeah, but I don't think the Secretary of State is quite answering. Not all the money has gone to dealing with refugees. Money has been sent down there, which has gone to e.g. border controls, and I do not see that it helps a refugee to control the border more severely; that it has seen that Turkey has shot at people who tried to escape the civil war in Syria. So it is just for us to be precise: yes, we have sent money down to help deal with refugees. You do that in a number of places. This can be done directly to civil society organisations, so they do these things. You can do it in a number of ways. It has also been decided to support Erdogan's regime with this so-called Turkey facility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153509	I also heard the rapporteur in his rapporteur's speech mention the need to help refugees in the neighbourhood, and that is what happens when you look at Turkey. It is, of course, the immediate region of Syria where many refugees come from. That we must then be sure and demand that the money we give is of course also of great importance to the refugees, and that is why I say that this is something that we are following very closely. That there is definitely potential for improvement, I think we can agree on that too. But the fact that it helps refugees and that the refugees would have felt much worse if we had not given that money is beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153545	Thank you. So there are no further brief comments and we thank the Minister. And then we give the floor to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt for a rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153557	Thank you, President. It has been an interesting exchange of views on an incredibly central and topical subject. It is clear that we cannot have a discussion about Turkey without also talking about Syria and what is going on, but we, the Danish People's Party, have wanted to focus on the specific issue between Turkey and the European Union, where we still insist that Turkey should have a perspective that states that Turkey can become a member. We regard this as quite a dangerous course, even if at some point a government had to come into Ankara, which could be confused with what we know from Western Europe, simply because Turkey, with its Islamic origin, has a history of waves between the secular forces and the Islamic forces, as we know from the Western democracies, of waves between the right and the left, but where, however, there is the significant difference that only a few of the extreme right and left poles move on to an undemocratic exaggeration, while in the Islamic countries it is quite often the case that when the pendulum swings in the Islamic direction, there is not much democracy left. That is why a country such as Turkey simply does not belong in the European Union. One can, of course, discuss whether it is even part of Europe. I probably had the expectation that we in the Danish People's Party would not be able to support some of the proposals for adoption that would be put forward today, but to enter the debate here in a good spirit, I chose to wait and listen, but must note that we are making our own proposal for adoption and with the permission of the President I will read it out: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament regrets that the government does not want to stop EU negotiations with Turkey, which neither culturally nor geographically belong to Europe and therefore should never be a member of the European Union. Parliament therefore instructs the government to inform the EU that the ongoing accession negotiations and the ongoing financing of the pre-accession process are being stopped. Parliament notes that EU accession negotiations have not brought Turkey in a more western direction. The idea that Turkey could join the European Union in a non-defined future as a democratic and freedom-oriented country is therefore dangerous. If such a decision is taken, a country will be allowed in without guarantees that the dark forces that are ruling the country today will return. A potential wolf in sheep's clothing is therefore accepted as a member of the European Union. Such a risk would be unforgivable. That is why any part of the accession negotiations must be suspended. • V 9).
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153842	Thank you. The proposed adoption will now be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Balder Dark Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153850	After all, this debate has left no doubt whatsoever that Erdogan's Turkey has moved in the very wrong direction. In the best of all worlds, Turkey was a liberal democracy with an indisputable division of power and with one, what to say, respect for all human rights and a proper rule of law. That'd be the best part. But if and if that were the case, could the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party at all in such a situation see Turkey as a member of the EU or is there basically a brake on Islam being the main religion in Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20191031153932	Yes, all the time that the reason why all Islamic countries have an absence of the good virtues mentioned by the rapporteur is Islam, it is clear that the brake is that Turkey is a Muslim country. In other words, there is no Muslim country that has the same joyous values and processes, etc. that we know from the Western cultural community and that it has taken centuries to develop. That is why, of course, there is a connection. It is no coincidence that the Christian countries of Western Europe are democratic, equal and so on. This is due, for example, to the fact that we are not in a position to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. As you know, the principle of secularity in Christianity does not exist in Islam and therefore Muslim countries should not be allowed into a club such as the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031154018	Sir. Balder Dark Andersen apostates. Then there are no more brief comments on the list. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191031154034	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, November 1, 2019. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
