ParlaMint-DK_20190207100026	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 163 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Institutions for Primary Education. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 164 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Force in Psychology etc., the Health Act and various other laws. Peter Kofod (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 90 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to deprive inmates of the right to make money from book publications) and motion for a resolution No. B 91 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the publication of photos and videos from surveillance cameras). Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 92 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the roll-back of the legislative amendment to tighten up the penalty for begging). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190207100137	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are no fewer than four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 68 by Bent Bøgsted (DF), Hans Andersen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Anders Johansson (KF), and we can vote now. Then we shall conclude the vote. In favour of 56 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 44 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 68 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 66 by Finn Sørensen (EL) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), proposal for adoption no. V 67 by Mr Leif Lahn Jensen (S) and proposals for adoption No. V 69 of Torsten Gejl (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207100306	Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207100330	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL and ALT), elected by a minority (S and RV), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. You can vote now. The vote is now closed. In favour, 47 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), 52 (DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals has thus been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207100432	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? And I didn't ask if anyone wanted to talk, but to comment on the matter. That is not the case. The negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207100519	The debate is open. But that would suggest that I can only ask whether any of the rapporteurs would like to speak. It's quite quiet, so there isn't. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207100614	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Tax. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207100634	Thank you for that, President. The Socialist People's Party, known daily as the SF, proposes with this motion for a resolution that it should only be possible to deduct from the trade union quota for members of trade unions who either have concluded an agreement for at least 25%, i.e. a quarter, of their members, or who are members of a main organisation which has collectively concluded an agreement for 25%, or that which corresponds to a quarter, of members. And the SF proposes that the proceeds obtained, i.e. the additional income which comes from cutting off the deduction possibilities for members of what is commonly known as the yellow trade unions, should be used to increase the deduction ceiling for quotas to the traditional trade unions, if you like. I would just like to explain the current rules. The rules that apply today mean that employees can deduct expenses for up to DKr 6,000. annual quotas for trade unions and other professional associations whose main purpose is to protect the economic interests of the professional group to which they belong. There is no demand today for the trade unions to enter into agreements; many do so, but there is no demand for it. The SF proposal will then tighten up the requirements for the members of the trade unions who can be deducted from quota payments. What's that gonna mean? Yes, that would mean an increase in taxes for those who choose those who, in the opinion of the proposers, appear to be wrong trade unions. Otherwise, it is strange that such discrimination should be proposed here. It must therefore no longer be sufficient for a professional organisation to take up the professional interests of the group to which it belongs. And what could that be? It could, for example, be done. be by helping with legal help in your work if you get stuck with your employer or other. No, the union must now also be a contracting party directly or indirectly through the main organisation. In my view and in the view of the government, and also objectively speaking, this would damage competition between the trade unions, including, among other things, trade unions. the price of a contingent and one's free choice to choose one's trade union. And free choice is therefore a good thing both for society and for the economy and for the individual. But this proposal will damage free choice and competition between trade unions. Therefore, the government's attitude is on an equal footing with that of the proposers, one must assume that the Danish labour market is well served by a high degree of organization. That's how far we agree. We are well served by a labour market with a high degree of organisation, and it is good that we have trade unions in Denmark. This does not mean, however, that the government considers it neither appropriate nor sensible to divide trade unions into right and wrong. Nor does the Government consider it appropriate to increase the cap on deductions, which is proposed, because this will primarily benefit the members of the most expensive trade unions. And when you read a little in the newspapers, it seems that in some trade unions I do not have to cut everyone off, because there are some things you could cut away that are not exactly core services, and that is why I think we should be careful to reward the unions that are very expensive on quota crowns, and therefore it makes sense that there is a little competition in trade unions too. I would like to say that I am willing to discuss the possibility of financing a reduction in tax on labour by limiting the deduction for professional quotas, but I do not think the proposers would be interested in that. But now I just mention it here, now that the theme is on Parliament's agenda. Finally, I would like to say that my conclusion as a tax minister and the government is that the government cannot support the resolution, which discriminates against the type of trade unions and reduces the incentive to keep the costs of the most expensive trade unions down.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101106	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101111	However, it was an unusually manipulative way of interpreting things, tax minister, that this should be a division into right and wrong unions. Firstly, there are no trade unions at all on both sides. On the one hand, they are in fact trade unions; on the other hand, they are purely private business. As a starting point, however, I have to ask whether it is not important to make a socially useful effort to obtain a tax credit. And do you make a social effort if you just have a private profit business? You might be able to do that by producing something. But here we have what it stands and falls by: Do you do social work by drawing up agreements? What is the point of supporting associations that are not close to drawing up agreements when they are confronted with trade unions which, together with their employers' organisations, actually create the foundations for the Danish labour market, namely collective agreements? That is where the distinction lies, not between right and wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101205	But I have to say that I have followed the debate in the trade union field, and there is a struggle between the trade unions. I often think it's going on fairly, but there's this fight between some of the old unions and some of the new ones that have come in. Now it's not so much up in time, but it was years ago. That is why it is funny what the effect of the proposal from the SF here is. That is to take account of the old people, who, traditionally speaking, have also supported the Socialist People's Party and other parties on the left. And the new trade unions, which are more neutral, must then be punished. However, I find that striking. That is why I should like to mention it. I certainly also think that there is value in not only entering into agreements we have a collective labour market, I and the government are happy about that, but also in other things that the trade unions do, for example. If you are in a position of legal help, you are in a position to be a worker with nothing against an employer who can do a lot. There is a lot of reasonableness and social sense in that, and that is why it must, of course, be covered by the right to deduct.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101315	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101318	Yes, and the manipulation continued. Now it is a distinction between old and new unions. No, Minister of Taxation, it is a distinction between whether you make a socially useful effort by drawing up agreements for your members or not. There can be every sympathy for associations and private businesses that provide legal assistance, and there is, in fact, a market for that out there. You can just go out and buy that. Why is it that taxpayers must support a private business? It doesn't make any sense at all. What it's about here and it must actually be able to address a Leftman is something. Something for something, right? They provide collective agreements, which are the foundation of our labour market, and we give them tax credit. These shops are just designed to allow some people to get out cheaper in quotas, and then it's purely private business that has nothing to do with a union. That's where the divide is. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101409	But this isn't a proposal for anything. This is a proposal to redistribute. It is classic SF and classic left that instead of looking at how we can make the social cake bigger, we should cut the cake into the interests that we now want to take care of. And all respect for that view; the government just doesn't agree with that. We think that the deduction rules which apply where trade unions are treated equally are the most reasonable and that is the view of the government. We respect the fact that others think otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101440	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101442	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now the Minister says that it is classic for the left that we want to redistribute. I guess that's classic for the right, too. It is just some others that are being redistributed, from the bottom of society to the top, which this government's policy is very clear about. Can the Minister not see that there is something wrong in the current system, because one actually favours membership of trade unions, which excuses me not lifting a finger in favour of the community? They don't, because they, among other things, do. do not do the work they need to do in drawing up agreements. It is not the case that they are excluded from this deduction option; they can just make sure that they draw up the sufficient number of contracts. However, they do not have the cost of vocational training for members or training efforts in general, including professional training. Nor do they have the cost of health and safety measures. There are a large number of tasks that a particular type of trade union is not trying to solve. Can the Minister not see that then it is unreasonable that membership of such unions should give as much a deduction as it would be possible to obtain by being a member of a trade union who is doing his job and drawing up those agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101618	The rapporteur for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101620	I must honestly admit that I am not so deep in the trade union area that I can stand here and say that there are no problems. So I have to refuse to answer that question. But I can say that I believe in the free market. If the trade unions you want to accommodate here are so amazingly talented if drawing an agreement means that you end up as such a spitzen class trade union I wonder why the members are not just looking over there and choosing it. If those who are not parties to the contract or have 25%. of the members, were so poor and so miserable, why the hell would anyone choose them? But it is there, and I think it is because they can do something different and are good at some other things than some of the trade unions that we want to take into account here. That is why it makes sense to treat the trade unions equally. It will certainly not be possible to run away from the competition and reward the expensive trade unions if they do what the proposers here want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101727	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101730	I would just like to say that the present system favours trade unions which fail to fulfil the task agreed in the morning of time. That's why this union quota deduction was introduced. It was, of course, because a majority in the Folketing recognised the role that the trade unions have and have played in Danish society as the basis for our democracy and as the basis for all the welfare improvements that have been achieved. I would just like to say to the Minister: this does not remove free competition. In other words, those trade unions which today do not make the effort to draw up agreements which guarantee Members good pay and working conditions can just get started and get up to the number of agreements and the number of members contained in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101818	All other things being equal, the fact that a group is chosen and said that they should not be allowed to avail themselves of the right to deduct would in any case reduce competition between trade unions in the short term. It will. But, of course, it is true that there is some behavior and some effect, and that may be in the direction that Mr. Finn Sørensen is talking about. But that does not change the attitude of the government, and that is that we think the deduction rules that are now are reasonable and they help to support free competition. So we have a political disagreement. That's the way it is sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101854	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to the Socialist rapporteur, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207101907	Thank you for that, President. As a party, we have an incredible respect for the Danish labour market model. I think most people know that. It is, after all, a model based on good, flexible agreements which benefit both companies and employees and, above all, also benefit our society. It is a model that ensures that the social partners can concentrate on making good agreements so that companies can earn money because there is peace, and it can create even more jobs, but also that employees receive a good salary and have good and secure working conditions. This requires a good degree of organisation, both from the employer and not least from the employee side, so both sides are well organised and strong. This has been going on for many years, and the model has worked for many years. And I have no doubt that this is precisely why we are one of the most equal countries in the world and, at the same time, one of the happiest people in the world. I think this model is responsible for that. The only problem is that the model is challenged as the level of organisation is falling, and that worries us quite a lot in the Social Democratic Party. We have to take this seriously, and we will. Therefore, it is super important to discuss this here, but also to find good solutions for the future. And here it is, of course, that the Social Democratic Party proposes, in one of our proposals on inequality, that a permanent labour market council be set up, which is intended precisely to strengthen the framework within the Danish model, in other words to ensure that the Danish model is strengthened. This advice must, of course, be made up of the social partners; anything else would be completely unnatural. For example, they need to discuss how we are discussing today to ensure a high degree of organisation and how, which is also very important, to counteract downward pressure on wages and working conditions, of which quite a lot is seen at the moment, and how to promote increases in production through extensive continuing training activities. When we look at this proposal, which will try to strengthen the level of organisation of the trade unions that are at the forefront of the fight for good agreements, we are in favour of it from the point of view of nature. Having said that, however, we also need to work it through more, and we need all stones to be turned around, both legally and in terms of labour market policy. So I would like to thank the SF for it and welcome it, but we will vote yellow when we come to the vote. Now that we mean something with a labour market council, as I said before, and thus a kind of permanent tripartite, and at the same time we believe and hope that we will soon come to power, it would be wise to turn this issue, which we are talking about here, into a labour market council, precisely to turn all the stones and to discuss it with the parties. Whether this proposal is the right model or not, or whether it takes some nuances, is something that I think the social partners should be involved in discussing, and then a decision has to be taken at some point. That is why I would like to thank SF for a very good proposal and thank SF for raising this discussion. It is incredibly important but from here too send out our positive signals to the trade union movement that they are doing very well. 3F is there every time someone takes in illegal labor. We know, and I know as the labour market rapporteur, that they are there every time we need help and advice. I just wish there were even more people who wanted to organize themselves because I think it's the right thing to do. And that is precisely why, on the part of the Social Democrats, we want to put the Danish model high on the agenda when and if we come to it, through what I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102256	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are two who wanted to make brief comments. The first is sir. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102302	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen for the kind words and for the approach; there is something to work with here. But I would like to ask about two things in it. One is that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that all legal stones are needed in this way. But the whole point of putting forward a resolution is that if there is a majority in favour of this, the government will have to put forward a legislative proposal, and then we will have to turn all the stones with consultation answers and the legislative process that will be around it. Then it would make sense for the Social Democrats to vote in favour of this, so that we can try to get a majority for it, because then the process will come to an end. That's one. The second is that to this extent there are interesting thoughts about such a labour market council, but Mr. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen also agrees with me that it makes no sense to have such a labour market council if you do not have strong organisations? Because otherwise you can't have it. In other words, stable agreements with the social partners presuppose that there are also organisations. So I think that this resolution will in all respects support what the Socialists are asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102407	But if we do not have a high degree of organisation and strong social partners when there is a red majority and social democracy comes into government, it will, unfortunately, take a long time before that happens. And I expect and hope and believe that next time we will have a change of government, just as I will do everything I can to ensure that this happens. That's why this makes sense. And hopefully we will also have some strong parties in 3-4 months. Of course we do. And that is why it makes sense to set up such an employment council, an idea which I have also heard that the parties and also the chairman of the LO, Lizette Risgaard, have welcomed. And then I would say that I think it makes sense when we are so close to an election that we land it there and talk to the parties, because it is not only the employees who have a problem with the level of organisation. It is, of course, the employers themselves, and it is also important that they are strong. Then I would also like to say to Mr. Karsten Hønge, that it is okay to ask this government to make such a proposal, and then you can put it in consultation and everything else, but I would now be more confident that it came past the social partners and that such ones as Mr. Karsten Hønge and I sat at the negotiating table and made sure that it was landed in the right way. And hopefully we can do that by choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102511	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102512	Yeah, we all agree on long stretches. I just don't understand the order of Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen's argument, because neither a future Labour Council nor the question of having all the legal stones reversed in it must be an argument for not voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. That is the whole argument for voting in favour of the resolution, because it will both expose all the legal knots and propose that we have a labour market council that actually has strong organisations as members.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102546	In fact, I think it is right to take this with the social partners. After all, there is a difference between sending it to a hearing where you can ask some questions and make some comments, and then sitting with the social partners and looking them in the eye and saying: how are we doing this right? Perhaps they themselves can be allowed to work with it. Actually, I think that makes a lot of sense. And if we succeed in achieving government, then the Labour Market Council must also find out if they can see themselves in this. And then we'll have to take the discussion at that time, if that becomes relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102616	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102618	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur and also thank you for the positive signals. I think that what makes sense for an election, and it is like what the rapporteur is talking about, is that there are clear reports, and here there is a very concrete proposal which will not then be supported by the Social Democrats. And then it is just that I think it would facilitate the discussion on this proposal if the rapporteur were to reveal what concerns they have about this proposal. So it must be taken into account that we will not be voting for it, but it would be good for the further discussion if the rapporteur were, as it were, to be a bit specific and to have a say in the substance of what concerns we have and whether we see some legal problems in this proposal. I think it would be very good if we could at least get it out of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102718	I thought I was very specific in my speech, because I also said exactly what we think should be done. I also said precisely that we are actually positive, that we really want to discuss it and why we also think that it is, for example. was going for a labour market council. Sir. Finn Sørensen makes it sound like we're against it. Well, there's a reason we're voting yellow. That is because we can see something positive in it. It's not red, it's a yellow. And that is precisely why we are saying that it would be a very good idea to turn these things around when and if we hopefully get to some point and then take it with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102759	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102800	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur say that yellow will be voted on, and that is fine, because then the door has not been closed to it. I understand that very well. I just think it is a bit of a pity, because now SF has taken the trouble to write down a concrete proposal, which is actually very easy to understand and simple to relate to. Then it would just facilitate the discussion and perhaps also make Enhedslisten, who intends to support the proposal, wiser. If it turned out that there were some problems in it, we would like to have it on the table as soon as possible. It is then just a small regret that you do not go into the substance of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102840	Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Finn Sørensen noticed that we welcomed it. In fact, I also made a lot of use of my speech... now I'm looking down at Mr. Karsten Hønge, the rapporteur for the SF, to praise the SF for taking up the debate, because I think it is important. After all, I stand every day and support it when 3F and other good trade unions take the fight for social dumping and other things. I think it's so incredibly important, and I have good contact with them every day. So again: great praise for raising the debate. I think that should certainly be the case here on the part of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102911	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Bent Bøgsted, DF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207102921	Thank you for that, President. This debate is, after all, a debate we have had in the past, a few years ago. It is simply that those who are members of what is called the Yellow Trade Unions that are perhaps basically 300,000-400,000 employees do not have to be deducted from their union quota after Mr. Karsten Hønge's perception. That's fair enough, too. You're allowed to have that idea. But in the Danish People's Party, we believe that we have freedom of association. You have the right to join what kind of union you want. You also have the right not to join an association. But when we look at it, we also have the attitude to it, that there should be a tax credit for a quota, then it should apply to everyone. We do not want to discriminate in this way and say that there are some people who can get a tax credit for trade union quotas, but that others cannot. What the SF is really doing here is saying: I do not like them; at least they should not be allowed to have a tax credit. That's kind of it, sir. Karsten Hønge goes out and says. I know, sir. Karsten Hønge then says that it is the unions he does not like, but it affects those members who have chosen another union of their own free will. Having said that, we can fully agree that trade unions must make an effort for their members. They have to live up to what you expect from a union. We believe that in the Danish People's Party too, and that is, no matter what trade union it is. They must provide the services they are entitled to, but we cannot support a proposal that discriminates against the citizens of Denmark in such a way that it is said that some people must be deducted from a quota and that others must not. That is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103126	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103134	That was a truly interesting and totally surprising speech by Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Because since the Danish People's Party is apparently all about freedom of association and that there must be no difference between associations, does that mean that the Danish People's Party is now in favour of withdrawing its quota for all kinds of associations in Denmark from tax? It is quite infinite what will be of all sorts of mysterious, suspect associations in this country, where it is evident now that Mr. Bent Bøgsted's view must be allowed to withdraw his quota. After all, it is about freedom of association, and then it is about one association being as good as all others. But it would be quite infinite, even financially, if we were now to give tax credits for allowances to all sorts of associations, because that is what is at issue here. Those associations, Krifa and the Trade Union House, and what else they are called, do not have a snuff to do with trade unions. It's just business or pure private associations. That's why I'm asking you, sir. Bent Bøgsted to decide on: Are they performing a socially useful task of participating in drawing agreements on the Danish labour market? That's the only point mark I'm setting up. It's not about anything about whether I like them or not. But I would just like to ask: is it really the case that there is no difference between associations in Denmark? For then it will be a very large financial printing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103240	Now it is not associations in general that we are talking about here. That's what Mr. Karsten Hønge has tabled a motion for a resolution on trade unions from which citizens can join and get help. It is the case that you have deductions for a union allowance and for an unemployment fund. This is something we have decided in this Parliament, and when we decide whether to deduct a quota for a particular association, in this case trade unions and cashiers, we do not say in this Parliament that we have to make a difference. It may be that SF will do so, but we do not do so in the Danish People's Party. We have passed a law providing for deductions from a trade union quota or a cashier's quota. This isn't the cashier's quota, sir. Karsten Hønge talks about here. It should be said that it is not the trade union quota itself, but the associations are registered as trade unions, and then of course the citizen must also have the same deduction as everyone else has.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103338	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103339	I'm completely ready again. We have simply come to the conclusion that it is just because you have cheated the Danish People's Party. So it should not be the first or the last time it is likely to happen. But I just mean, because you call yourself a union, you get to subtract the quota. Here you run completely around corners with the Danish People's Party. I am sure that we will have to set criteria for when it is a union, and that is where I only put up one criterion, and that is when agreements are drawn up. If you are not able to do so as a union, then you are not a union. It does not mean that, just because you say you are, you have to have the right to withdraw the quota. I'd like to ask you, sir. Bent Bøgsted to relate to one pointer: Is it possible to draw agreements? I'm gonna put the bar down very low by saying 25%. If you can live up to it, you will carry out a socially useful task and you can deduct the quota. In the second situation, you call yourself a trade union, but you do not do trade union work. So it doesn't make sense to deduct the quota just because you call yourself that. After all, they are nowhere near trade union work. So one thing is that they run around corners with the Danish People's Party, but it is much worse that one has apparently until now been able to run around corners with a majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103437	As far as I know, it is not the union that is withdrawing the quota. It's the employee. It is, of course, the employees who have deducted from the union quota they pay, and that has nothing to do with the trade union. There are perhaps 300,000 employees who have joined a union where Mr. Karsten Hønge now will say that those there 300.00 citizens should not be allowed to have a deduction for the quota they pay. This is not how we view it in the Danish People's Party. When we make a law in here that makes employees have a deduction for their contributions to a union, then they must also have the right to deduct it. The fact that they then have a lower quota and they do not have such a large deduction is something else. But employees must have the same rights regardless of which trade union they have joined when it is registered as a trade union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103522	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103524	Thank you. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that, even if this were to be adopted, it would still be the case that an employee can join any trade union the employee wishes to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103541	It is quite true that employees can join any trade union they like. That's what Mr. Finn Sørensen then says they just shouldn't be allowed to be deducted if they join a wrong union after Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen's opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103600	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103601	Thank you for confirming that even if this is adopted here, it will still be the case that an employee can join any trade union the employee may wish to join. Will the rapporteur also admit that there is no interference in freedom of association?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103622	That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about discrimination in relation to whether one group should be allowed to deduct the quota from tax and the other group should not. That is what this proposal is about, and that is where the Danish People's Party says that we do not discriminate. When we make a law that allows trade union quotas to be deducted from tax, it applies to anyone who has joined a union, regardless of which trade union they have joined.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103648	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103655	Thank you. The Socialist People's Party proposes that it should only be possible to obtain deductions from the union quota if you are a member of what should be said to be the right type of union. If so, it is proposed to increase the deduction ceiling from DKr 6,000 as it stands today to DKr 12,000. I must admit that I find it difficult to see the sensible or positive side of this proposal. It should be that the Socialist People's Party now wants to give tax concessions, and as you know, they have voted against this when the government and the Danish People's Party last year made sure that people in work received tax relief. But with this proposal, it's my experience that the Socialist People's Party is hitting awkwardly. Tax relief will be granted to members of selected trade unions, and I can understand that this must be paid for a tax increase for those people who, in the eyes of the SF, are members of a wrong trade union. It is therefore Members who have today chosen a particular union, which according to the SF is not the right one, and they must now be punished with an increase in taxes. We do not think that is fair. We would like to give tax relief to hardworking Danes. We did so last year, and we will gladly do so again if there is money for it. The difference is that for us it is about being able to pay to work, but not about rewarding certain employees, depending on whether they are members of one type or another, the right type or the wrong type of union. So we cannot support the proposal that lies here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103908	You're welcome. I would ask the honourable Member to respect the fact that we are not conducting telephone calls in the Parliamentary Chamber. There's an adjacent room that can be used. It's disturbing up here when I can hear what's being talked about. Thank you. We shall now proceed to the brief remarks. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207103927	Sir. Hans Andersen: Now that the rapporteur is constantly trying to divide it up, that in this proposal we should grant deduction rights to members of selected trade unions, I have to say: no, that is not what the proposal is about at all. It is a question of granting deduction rights to members of trade unions. What is the problem with the system we have today is that it grants the right of deduction to members of associations who do not have a snuff with trade unions to do any private business whatsoever, which can provide some legal guidance that people can go out on the street and buy without any right to deduct. That's the difference. This isn't about whether you like a union or whether you like another type of business. It is only on the issue, which I would ask the rapporteur to address: what criteria should be set in order to be allowed to withdraw the quota. Is it all sorts of associations in this country who just puke up and say that they are a union, and then it should give their members the right to deduct if they do not carry out what is the foundation and idea that their members should have the right to deduct, namely that they enter into collective agreements, for example? So what criteria will the rapporteur set for withdrawing the quota? Is that just supposed to be the desire to call an association something? Should it just be all sorts of suspicious, strange associations in the country, as these actually are far along the way? How have these members ever crept in to be allowed to withdraw their quota? That is what I would ask the rapporteur to do, not to say whether you like an association or not, but to do the trade union work that is characterized by collective agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104059	Sir. Karsten Hønge: The proposal is to say to the over 300,000 people who have chosen the apparently wrong trade unions that they should no longer be deducted from their union quota. That is what the proposal is basically about. I think they're doing a really good job. There are many tasks they help their members with. That is why I think it justifies the fact that their Members should also be subject to deductions. We stand by that. In other words, we are not concerned here with distinguishing between the right and wrong unions before the elections. But I understand that SF and Karsten Hønge are very concerned about that right here before the election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104154	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104155	We are concerned with distinguishing between unions that do association work crystallized in making collective agreements, and others. That's the definition. I thought that it would be obvious for a Leftman also to agree on the argument that one should give before one can enjoy something for something. That is such an old left-wing word, which is quite good, by the way. Admittedly, the rapporteur is talking about 300 000 people who should not be allowed to deduct their quota from tax. Yes, for they are not doing anything; there is nothing for it, but only that they are prone to it. Therefore, there is no reason why they should have a right to deduct their quota. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104234	It was, of course, a very clear message to the 300,000 members of the apparently wrong trade unions that the members of the trade unions are only polite. Nothing provides the associations, no help they give. So it is not my experience when I speak to members of the relevant, apparently wrong trade unions. You are very happy to be a member of that place. They get help in everyday life. This can be both legal help, but it can also be about other types of help • help in employment in companies etc. etc. They are doing a very good job, and that is why we in the Left do not want to distinguish between the right and wrong trade unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104323	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There were no further brief comments. We therefore have the opportunity to move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104338	As the attentive television watcher and also the colleagues in the Chamber have already noted, the Enhedslisten is in favour of this proposal. As long as we have a system of deductions for membership of trade unions, we will of course support it and I should like to add that this also applies to employers' organisations. Let me just say that, of course, we are looking at whether a proposal is something that improves the system we have or whether it is something that makes it worse. And this proposal is certainly something that improves the system, because it promotes the kind of trade unions that I should now be polite and formulate it in the way that does the work that real trade unions have to do, namely to draw up agreements and organise members. Without such unions, we would not have achieved the welfare improvements we have achieved in this society for generations, and as my parents and their parents have fought for it is only certain. Nor would we have achieved the democratic achievements of the working population in this society without the organised trade union movement. After all, the organised trade union movement is in many ways a foundation for our democracy and for our welfare. I do not see anything wrong with the fact that we might as well say that as it is rewarding membership of such unions. I think that is actually fair, because what are the tasks of the organized trade union movement? Yes, it is, first of all, a question of drawing up agreements and guaranteeing the right of Members to good pay and working conditions, guaranteeing local negotiating rights, ensuring that a shop steward can be chosen who enjoys the necessary protection against the employer's potential desire to sack him or her. Then they organize members. They provide a work environment that defends the working conditions of members in an increasingly brutal labour market. And they have some training activities that promote the opportunities for Members to change jobs later on or to do better at their present place of work. Then it is argued that this is supposed to be an interference with freedom of association. The rapporteur, who said so, had to confirm that it is not possible to prove it, because there are no restrictions on which trade unions an employee can join. Is there discrimination? Of course, you can argue for that, but if there is one, and I do not really think there is one, then this discrimination is based on very clear, objective criteria which any organisation that would like to call itself a trade union and live up to being a trade union can meet. In other words, these are perfectly clear, objective criteria. So I do not think it can be so difficult to support such a proposal if you would otherwise support what has been the foundation of Danish society for generations. In conclusion, I would like to give a small, cautious warning... I do not think it is directed at Mr. Karsten Hønge, but perhaps one can come across it in discussions in the trade unions, and that is some idea that the state should now come and help us solve a task that we cannot solve ourselves, in other words, in terms of organising members and maintaining members. Perhaps we should warn against this, because I believe that even the best deduction options will not solve that problem. If you have a problem in your union with maintaining Members, you have to ask yourself: are we doing it right and are we doing it right? So it does not, of course, exempt the trade unions from any criticism from Members or constantly consider how they can do better. And it is also my impression that it is a discussion that runs widely in the Danish organized part of the trade union movement. But the point of view is around, so you kind of give up and tell the state to do the job. That's not what this is all about. The aim is to target the deduction of the trade union quota, so that what has been intended for every day is actually maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104828	You're welcome, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104838	Thank you for that, President. As you know, we are about to go to elections, and we can do so, among other things. see, by that the left is handing out gifts to the friends • gifts to be paid by others. These are rights for early retirement to the friends of 3F and FOA paid by even higher taxes by all those who will not be able to avail themselves of that right and higher deductions for trade union quotas, but only to the trade unions that the Left likes funny enough there is also a coincidence between them and the trade unions that support the left financially. This is a classic example of what economists call pure Seeking. It's an attempt to make a financial gain to the friends paid by all other people... don't give a shit that the proposals don't make Denmark richer, don't create any added value. Oh, my God! We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104949	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207104953	Now I was so tranced over the last thing in English that I didn't quite catch. But at least it was something about apparently supporting those who were supposed to give you something back. And that is something known in the Liberal Alliance, which is funded by the largest capitalists in the country. And apparently it's the kind of trade-off you make to stick to the English. Is that the point of the rapporteur? Well, thief thinks every man steals what they say, right? That was the first question. Then there's this gift thing for the friends. Well, why don't you just try and drop that hopeless motive research? Joachim B. Olsen, and if it could be done for a short time to keep the focus on what this proposal is about, namely setting up criteria for who should have the right to deduct in this country. It is not a question of what the trade union is called, not of what they are doing, not of what they call themselves, but of whether they are carrying out the fundamental task that can be expected of a trade union, namely that they are drawing up collective agreements. Can we hold that trail for a second?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105048	Well, this is a classic example of pure-seeking, well, it's a textbook example of what economists call pure-seeking. It is a proposal that benefits a particular group at the expense of everyone else, without creating any added value for society as a whole. It's classic clean-seeking. That's all this is. If the rapporteur looks up the concept, he will find that plenty of SF's policy is pure-seeking. We're not in favour of clean-seeking. We have a policy that increases the prosperity of the country. It's good for all people. So clean-seeking is wrong. And by the way, giving tax relief is not giving anyone anything. It's not giving anything, it's taking less from people. It's a difference that's pretty fundamental. So no, we can't support this. And, by the way, it is also nonsense when some say that you do not create any use. Who's gonna decide who's gonna make any use? I think the yellow unions have grown quite a lot, so there are a lot of people who think that they are apparently doing more good than the classic unions. Why don't we let them assess it, instead of Mr. Knox? Karsten Hønge and others in here are supposed to judge who is making use of it? Should we not let the citizens assess it? They have spoken; they have voted with their feet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105206	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105208	Of course, as politicians, we can assess who is of benefit to society. Surely it is not an experience that we so privatise and outsource. I see that I am now doing socially useful work in some context, and that is why I want tax credit for what I am doing. After all, this is not something we contract out to the individual citizen, because the citizens could then go around and get all sorts of good ideas about when they think they are doing socially useful work and thus have to get rid of cheaper taxes. Of course it is a social decision. This proposal creates exactly an added value that is part of the concept in English that I just died in. But at least I got the word added value, and I know that concept. This proposal creates added value because it helps to support the dynamic, flexible labour market. It is precisely a proposal that creates added value for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105254	No, it's not. And Mr. Karsten Hønge reveals himself when he says that we can assess what creates social utility. No, I mean, we represent the state. Society is the people out there, and they have assessed the community has just estimated that the yellow unions are making use of. That is why people choose them and why people have chosen the red ones more. Society, the people, the citizens, has assessed what is of use, and that is what we think citizens should have room to do, instead of Mr. Karsten Hønge and others must sit and decide what is good for the individual people. But that is the difference between being a collectiveist and a liberal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105338	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105340	Thank you. I am not going to go as well as the rapporteur, so I do not know what clean-seeking means. However, if the rapporteur thinks that we are pursuing class policy and want to take account of certain interests, then the rapporteur has understood it perfectly correctly. We think it is reasonable to have such a system of deductions that membership of the organisations which carry out the tasks which such an organisation has to perform is then promoted. So that is quite right. If we had not done so and made sure that there had been some good, strong trade unions in this country that signed agreements and sometimes also fought with employers and arranged to recruit members, then we would not have had a society with the benefits that ordinary employees have achieved after all. So the rapporteur has understood that quite correctly. Moreover, I do not know exactly what the term means... I suppose the rapporteur is also guilty of what is pure-seeking, or whatever, at least in class politics. Because the rapporteur wants to take account of a number of other aspects of society. He would like to take from cash aid recipients to make sure that those with the yachts up at the end of society can get even more than they already had.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105503	Before we go any further, I would like to recommend that it be at least our intention from the Presidency that the debate here can be understood by everyone. So I would urge you to use expressions that can be understood by a broad population if it is even possible to find concepts that can be understood better than those used now. I understand that there are quite a lot of people who do not understand the concepts, and that is important for having a conversation. But that is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105528	We must, of course, strive to do so. But sometimes there are concepts that, yes, you might have to break up. That's fair enough. I have to do it myself sometimes. It is absolutely true that this is a matter for the SF and the Enhedslisten to want to accommodate a particular group at the expense of others, without creating any added value for society as a whole. - Sir, you can. Finn Sørensen does not argue objectively that our policy does not. It creates a higher wealth. It benefits the country, the nation as a whole. This doesn't. These are gifts focused on particular groups at the expense of others. Why don't you just be honest about it? Why don't you just be honest? Even people in the country who want to support this will never buy the premise that this is not about you doing some services to certain trade unions to which you belong. Just be honest about it. Anyone can see it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105637	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105638	I do not know whether the rapporteur has heard what I have said and what Mr. Karsten Hønge has said. We're not hiding what it's all about. We would like to encourage trade unions to solve the social tasks that trade unions are doing by drawing up agreements and organising members. Joachim B. Olsen would like to promote a fiscal policy and a distribution policy that benefits the 10%. The richest in this society. There are completely clean lines between us. That's why it's always a pleasure to discuss such things, because we can get it pulled up quite clearly that we just want to separate our way with this society. So thank you for the rapporteur's contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105724	Well, we'll separate ways. The Enhedslisten praised the Venezuelan government a few years ago and socialist politics, and now it has all fallen to shreds with unimaginable human consequences. Well, the Enhedslisten did. Now it wasn't really socialism. It wasn't really, was it? It never is when things go wrong. Yeah, we want something different. But I can argue that the policy we are pursuing increases the prosperity of this country. It makes everyone richer in the long run. That's the difference between you and me. Sir. Finn Sørensen is stuck in an ideology that is actually buried and dead because it has shown how terrible it is and what its consequences are. And then the rest of us stand here and are rational and pursue a sensible policy. So that's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105808	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105809	On the other hand, I would also like to point out that the rapporteur is slightly watering down the tax concept in that the rapporteur argues that the Liberal Alliance is taking less and that it is the opposite of giving to people. I think that tax is about distribution. It's not about just taking less and less until we don't take anything at all. It's about distributing money in society, and that's why you can't put it here against the fact that imposing and taking are two very different things. It's really the same thing. You distribute the money. It is not the case that, when we demand taxes, we send them into tax havens and never give them back. When we take something from someone, we also give something to someone, and I just want to point that out. It sounded like when the Liberal Alliance gives something to somebody, then nobody pays it, that is, you can't take it, but you can give it. I think that the tax system is whether we agree politically on how we distribute the money or not is about the distribution of money. That is why it is just as fair to collect taxes as it is to provide tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105919	It's just to be perfectly clear: if I charge you more money, I'll take something from you, and I can have political reasons why I want to do that. But if I choose to say that I don't want to take so much away from you, then I haven't given you anything, then I've taken a little less. It's not giving you a gift that I'm saying I'm gonna take a little less from you. It's not. But, of course, fiscal policy is also about distribution policy. Well, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105948	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207105949	Thank you. It was also just to emphasise that I think the rapporteur made it sound as if tax relief is the only sensible social thing. I just thought that was on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110005	Tax reliefs are:
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110013	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. No one else was challenged, at least not to comment briefly. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Julius Graakjær Grantzau from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110031	Thank you. Now I am actually standing here instead of our rapporteur, Torsten Gejl, and I want to put forward our position on this proposal. This has actually been a difficult debate in our group. We recognize the premise that lies in this proposal, that is to say that the old trade unions, the large trade unions, who do a piece of social work and do more work than other trade unions, have a real value and historically have had a real value, which is very important for where we stand today and for the Danish model. On the other hand, I think that is also supported by the deduction, which covers most of the large old trade unions, which quite broadly cover all trade unions, and if it is about the fact that the unions need to raise prices or in this way need extra support, I would say that I do not think that raising the deduction is where we can provide anything. Then perhaps it will certainly be about increasing the general deduction, and there I think, in return, that the general deduction of the DKK 6,000. a year for trade unions is appropriate. Now it is the case that when you read in the tax administration's explanation of it, you can see that you get a deduction from your normal quota to the union, extra strike quotas if they are imposed on the union, club quotas to another association whose purpose is to look after members' professional and financial interests, and special contributions to an association when they are to cover a subsidy to retired members. So that means that there is already a slightly broader definition of associations. I think that these yellow trade unions are quite well under it and that they also have a lower quota and thus a lower deduction, I think there is already a reasonable distribution of it in that way. Well, we support that some associations actually have a higher cost by having a deduction. So is the tax credit the right way to do this? I do not see that at first sight is what makes us strengthen these trade unions and that is where we have problems. Personally, I find myself experiencing many places and that there are stories from many companies, both public and private, where unfortunately it seems that there is precisely a lack of solidarity among Members and a lack of support for trade unions, which actually have a value in a working life. But I also think that this support is lacking among employees, i.e. employees who may no longer stand together and use the trade union they could use. So it's also about culture, besides the fact that it's about deduction. In the same way, I do not always think I hear that people of trust are as strong as they used to be. I hear stories where shop stewards are also the people of management, in other words, where, as in general, there is a culture that I think is unfortunate, which does not support this traditional solidarity that has been in this area, which has really strengthened our labour market. So I think that there are some things about culture, and I do not think that we should go in there and make a difference to the deduction. There I think that deduction quite reasonably supports the opportunities that exist to support these associations. We cannot vote in favour of this proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110409	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110415	I was really trying to summon all my intellectuals to the extent that you can call them the resources to get head and tail in the rapporteur's speech. I'm afraid it didn't work out. I understand that this has been discussed at the meeting of the Alternative Group. It has obviously not helped to clarify what this proposal was about. I think maybe even the two of you have been confusing each other. Because you can argue that this is also about culture and attitudes about what you do in society. One can also problematize, as I can hear the rapporteur doing, whether it should have anything to do with taxation. But that is what we are discussing today. For society, the state has decided that we want to support certain associations whose members have the right to deduct their quota from tax. That is why the question is now to the rapporteur: there is a difference not only between old trade unions, as the rapporteur says, and newer ones, but between trade unions who do trade union work, social work, associations which are just private associations. There's a difference, isn't there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110509	Thank you. I'm sorry if I didn't make it clear. It was also a rather unclear discussion, or at least a difficult talk, that we had in the group, and as I said before, I am not the rapporteur in this area, so if I do not make myself clear enough, I am sorry. But I guess I did say anyway that I don't think the deduction is the right place to deal with this difference that I actually recognise there is. I also think it is right that the other trade unions or associations should, if we are not to call them trade unions, also serve the interests of members and the interests of employees in a sensible way. I also think that we should recognise the trade unions in order to do some work, which can be quite sensible, and for which there can also be some deduction. I do not know if it answered the question. Otherwise, the questioner will have to ask again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110558	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110603	I fully understand that the rapporteur has replaced another rapporteur, and that is why I am going to do just as quietly. However, I would still like to say that it is of no use when the rapporteur says that deductions are not the right place to deal with this. But that's what we do. I just think that whatever you are discussing at the Group meetings of the Alternative, you have to relate to the fact that the State has actually decided to grant tax credit to those who are members of professional organisations. Then you can't say it's not the right place. For then the alternative must be whether it should be all sorts of associations, i.e. whether it should be all sorts of associations in the labour market area that just call themselves professional organisations. Or should it be limited to those who do social work by drawing up collective agreements? I believe that we can come to a conclusion on this, including at a group meeting in the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110659	Thank you. At least I can come to a conclusion on that myself. I think it is a fine arrangement that we have today and it supports both forms of trade unions, and I think that is also fair. I think that both forms of trade unions can have their justification. That is why I think it is a fine arrangement. I think that the deduction is sufficiently high to support not only these yellow unions, which have lower quotas, because they really also do less, but the deduction also supports the unions which do more because they can actually deduct a larger quota. That is why it must be up to the individual employee of which trade union he or she is a member. I think it is quite fine that we there have different choices. And now that we are supporting the larger trade unions, which are doing a great deal of work, by having a deduction that is high enough, I do not see the need for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110757	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110806	Thank you. I was just listening, and then I was a little puzzled. Is it really the opinion of the alternative that a company which calls itself a trade union but does not have any agreements at all is just as entitled to a deduction as a union which has an agreement and which, on that basis, negotiates wages and working conditions for its members?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110832	I really think that what I just said was the answer to that question. I don't know how to clarify it anymore. We believe that the Yellow Trade Unions can also receive help as an employee, which can be beneficial. That is why I think it is reasonable that it should also be included in this system of deductions for trade unions. And again, I would like to say that I think it is good that the deduction is high, so that it not only covers that kind of unification, but also covers those who do more work and take greater responsibility. The employees must then join those who are doing this great job so that we can strengthen them. And then afterwards, in addition to joining, make sure to work for this culture, so we make use of them, and so we actually hold onto the forces that are in these unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110922	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207110928	Well, there we have a clear disagreement between the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. We believe that real trade unions should be strengthened that have an agreement because they make a difference to their members. You should not give deductions to companies that claim to be unions but do not have an agreement. So there is a clear difference between our two parties. But I would just like to hear: does the alternative not recognise that if you are a sosu and have a low salary and want to secure proper working conditions and decent wages, then it plays a role, what you have to pay every month in the union quota, so that you would actually strengthen the lowest-paid in this country and their ability to demand decent working conditions and decent wage conditions if it were cheaper for them to be part of a union with a collective agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111019	I have not heard any problem with the size of the trade union quota and the deduction in that way. I can see that this is a redistribution from one type of union to another, but I do not see that it comes from the fact that we should have a problem when people do not join the existing large trade unions, real trade unions, as Enhedslisten calls them. I do not understand that it is the deduction, which is the problem here, that people do not join. Therefore, I do not think that this solves the problem we have with the difference and with the strengthening of these sensible ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111056	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111110	Well, we on the Radical Left are also happy to have this discussion. I have to say that we in the Radical Left are not interested in increasing the deduction for professional quotas for selected trade unions. One half of this proposal is about increasing the deduction for professional quotas, and we do not agree with that. The second half of the proposal concerns whether we should then change the definitions of what is a professional organisation so that there is no longer any deduction for membership of selected professional organisations. We're not interested in that either. So we are against both parts of the proposal and we will vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111157	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111200	I often associate the Radical Left with that kind of clever approach. You can say a lot about Radicals, we don't have time to get around it all now, but I do think you have that snug approach to things. And isn't this about saying something for something? In other words, an organization, an association, or whatever it may be, is doing an effort, and we, on the part of the state, will support that. After all, there is nothing for it here, because there are these yellow organizations or businesses that are not doing that social work. So what would the argument be for holding hands under them financially?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111239	Thank you. First of all, I always think that there is time to talk more about the Radicals, so that it should finally not stop the questioner from asking questions about radical politics I would like to answer. Secondly, when we talk about snuff and whether we should not reward associations doing useful work, I must repeat what I said in my rapporteur's speech, namely that we are radically not interested in increasing the deduction of professional quotas for selected trade unions. We do not think that the deduction right now is too low, so we do not intend to go in and increase the deduction, which is one half of the proposal. Then comes the second half of the proposal. Are we going to change the definitions that we have today about what is a professional organisation and for which tax deductions are currently applied? No, we're not interested in that either. So, as I said, there are two parts of the proposal and we are against both of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111326	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111331	I'd like to ask you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen to relate to the starting point of the discussion. It is not, of course, whether the trade unions are selected, as the rapporteur says. This is about whether it's trade unions, this is at stake. I believe that what should the argument be for granting the right of deduction to members of associations who do not carry out the work which is the prerequisite for granting tax credit? That is the premise on which I would ask the rapporteur to agree. Because we do not grant deduction rights to all kinds of obscure associations in society either. After all, we do not grant deduction rights to private business either. If you go to a lawyer, you don't get that right of deduction by going to this lawyer. You have to pay for that yourself. So there is full freedom of association. People can join all the associations they want, but there must be a difference between who has the right to withdraw the continent and who does not. I would just ask that the rapporteur address the definition of a trade union, namely the ability to draw up collective agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111433	Thank you. The first half of the SF's proposal is to increase the deduction of professional quotas for certain trade unions, and I have to say that I think that there is a very weak argument for this. I have not heard the explanatory statement from Mr Seligman. Karsten Høngge for why you have to increase this deduction for certain unions. Here comes the next one. Should we change the definition of who can receive the right to deduct a quota? There we are not of the same opinion as the SF. We believe that yes, the yellow trade unions are doing a professional job. People who join must have the right to deduct their quotas here, even if the SF adds up to a different definition of what constitutes a union. We do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111514	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and welcome to Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111525	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the SF proposes that it should only be possible to obtain deductions from the trade union quota for members of trade unions who are members of a main organisation which has concluded collective agreements for at least 25%. of the members. It is not a resolution that we, the Conservatives, can support. The proposal will damage competition between trade unions and it will also damage the free choice of trade union. If you follow the proposal, you will also make it more advantageous to choose an expensive trade union. It will damage competition and primarily benefit the most expensive trade unions. All other things being equal, it will also mean increasing trade union quotas. We do not think that makes much sense either. We do not want to discriminate between trade unions and we want to maintain the incentive to keep costs down. On the other hand, we would very much like to work to ensure that it is better to work rather than to make a deduction, of course, that you could increase the employment allowance so that employees get more money for themselves. But we certainly do not think that this is the right way to go and we cannot, of course, support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111642	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111645	I could understand that the focal point of the rapporteur's speech was that this would damage competition between trade unions. That's just not what this is about. The rapporteur has the illusion that there are trade unions competing with each other. It is a question of some professional organizations actually taking the lead by drawing up collective agreements, and then there are others who choose to take refuge in the work that some have done, and therefore, of course, they can get away with things more cheaply and do some private business, which is supported by the state. That is what I am asking the rapporteur to do. Or, more importantly, the rapporteur simply believes that tax credit should be spread so widely to all sorts of associations that can claim that they are doing something that they are proving not to be doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111737	I think I have certainly understood what the motion for a resolution is about. What I am saying is that we do not think that from here we should say that one trade union is better than the other, it should be up to the individual to decide. And so, of course, the deduction must follow the individual, so that you have the free choice. This increase in deductions for the unions with a higher quota will certainly not benefit consumers, it will certainly not benefit employees. I mean, I think it's important to stick to the fact that we have a model now that there's a deduction to join a union. There are then some who choose one trade union or another; I think that should be up to the individual and then you have the free choice, and I think we should stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111819	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111823	So that's an interesting thought. Does the Conservative People's Party suddenly believe that it is up to every citizen out there to find out for themselves which associations they intend to join and then get tax credit for it? That is utterly hopeless, because where do you set the limits for it? Some definitions need to be set out as to when you are entitled to deduct your quota from tax. And I think it is quite obvious when we talk about the labour market and about trade unions that the definition could then be: the ability to draw collective agreements. What else would it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111851	But that could be exactly what it is today, that is to say, covering the professional economic interest of employees. That's what these unions do, and they're relatively successful with that. They have increasing membership numbers, and that is because they create a value for the employee, and I think that is important, and then it is up to the individual to assess where you get something for the money, and then you can join where it fits best into your working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111917	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207111927	Thank you to all the rapporteurs for having dealt with the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. There is, of course, a special thanks to the Enhedslisten for supporting the proposal, and indeed such a rather cold thank you to the Social Democrats for, after all, taking a positive view of it in terms of content, although one does not believe that we can at the moment vote in favour of it. On the other hand, I have to say that I was rather surprised by the attitude of the alternative. I am not surprised by the attitude of the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives that we might have calculated in advance, but that the Alternative, which at some level believes to belong to the centre-left wing, is obviously not able to distinguish between yellow nanny organisations and the professional organisations that carry out social work, those who bind society together, those who contribute so much to the fact that we have a Denmark that is connected, I am surprised. I believe that a great many voters in the centre-left wing will be very surprised at the, I think, deeply unsolidaristic attitude of the alternative here. The gold bird of Danish society is the flexible and dynamic labour market. This is where the values are created, both in the private and in the public labour market of course, but nothing comes of itself, except pocket wool. The prerequisite for the Danish model is that we have a labour market where you actually have professional organisations, that there are agreements, that there can be sustainable tripartite negotiations, that we have serious partners in everything, from how to manage vocational schools, to how to conclude long-term, sustainable pension agreements. Everybody likes these winnings. Everyone always talks about how it is fantastic how we in Denmark have managed to combine a relatively high degree of security while actually having a dynamic and flexible labour market. People come to Denmark in hordes to study how we have made this very special, sophisticated model. Everywhere in the world, you are excited about the flexibility and dynamics you want to have. The French and others come up here and say, "Oh, my God, that's good thinking." We would like to subscribe to this flexibility, we would like to take it home, and then we want employees and businesses to be flexible, adaptable and dynamic. But the thing is, it's the top of our model, and you can't tear the top off the foundation on which it stands. It's kind of like looking at a house, and then you say, "Oh, my God, some pretty twigs that house has." These are beautiful twigs that the carpenter built on that roof. And it often is. Then they say: I want to buy the twigs, I want to buy the roof, but I don't want the walls, I don't want the foundation. This simply makes no sense, because the roof and the beautiful twigs are only there because they are on solid walls and on solid foundations. In the same way, the Danish labour market can be viewed: flexibility, dynamism and security are there only because the prerequisites are there by among other things. to have strong professional organisations. We recognize it from afar, especially on these unnaturally thin arms, the clothes sniff on the sleeves, because they are always groping when they bent over the table forks all the benefits that others have gained for the community at work. The arms are thin, because they did not participate in the work of securing the benefits of the agreements and in the negotiations with the politicians. I wonder who I'm talking about. Yes, it is the cheap people who fall under the radar, try to make themselves invisible or will always change the subject of conversation when the organized workers have again made agreements with improvements that they are then the first to collect. They are the ones sitting on the back of the tandem bike with their legs up while the members of the right unions are stepping on the pedals, yet they have the right to deduct the quota from the tax. First, they run around with organized workers, and then they run around with taxpayers and society. It has to stop. The SF suggests here that you should provide before you can enjoy. The proposal means that the quota can only be deducted if the federation or the main organisation of which you are a member can prove that it has covered at least 25% of the contract. of the members. If you cannot do that, then you should not expect society to give a helping hand. Something too we must say to all associations in Denmark. The taxpayers and the organized wage earners have been ridiculous long enough. Let the members of the Yellow Divisive Organizations pay for their own private business. There is full freedom of association in Denmark, they can join the associations they want, but there is no reason why taxpayers should lend them a hand. If, on the other hand, you participate in the socially useful work of contributing, as the trade unions do, you must be able to withdraw a larger proportion of the quota. I think we should say to the yellow austerity organisations which do not contribute to the work but who want the tax credit: no arms, no cakes. You can say that in many ways. You can also say that there are more Russians in Russian salad than there are professional people in Krifa, and that there are more cats in cat food than trusted people in the Professional House. They are the ones who undermine the orderly, regulated, civilised labour market. These yellow divisions are the ones that keep the front door open so that social dumping can enter the Danish labour market. On the other hand, we will be defending precisely the organized labour market. Where you find solutions for everyone, where you stand together, where you can prove that you are actually doing a job for the benefit of society, it would be reasonable for the state to say, in fact, that you can withdraw a larger part of your quota.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112601	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112605	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur was surprised at our position here. On the other hand, I'm a little surprised by sir. Karsten Hønge's rhetoric I think it gets a little crazy here with all sorts of associations etc. But I don't know if Mr. Karsten Hønge is really surprised by the alternative's attitude, or whether it was just to create some confusion about where we stand. Unnecessary confusion, I would say, because I think that I have just stressed that we can distinguish between the types of trade unions that there are and that we recognise precisely the value of the trade unions that the SF wants to strengthen here. We recognise the value of the work they do and that they do a greater job, and the value they have had historically and still have away. That the connection is not as large as it should be, or should be, or as we would like it to be, should be dealt with with with a deduction that takes away the possibility of some associations, which we also think do some sensible work for employees, we just don't think the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112709	I really regret if the rapporteur thinks that I contributed to the confusion. It seems that the rapporteur did so well himself when he was on the platform. Well, I just mean that in the Alternative, you can just hold as many group meetings as you obviously need... it clearly doesn't become clearer by the number or length of the meetings. This is all about whether you want to support the associations that contribute to cohesion, to solidarity by creating collective agreements, or are you unable to distinguish between those who are in the lurch of those who have actually made the work and who do the work? That's just the question. Then you might think in the alternative that it should not be a tax policy issue, but it is because you have actually decided that you should have the right to deduct tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112757	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112801	Well, I still don't understand what it is, sir. Karsten Hønge doesn't understand. I think that, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, the system we have in place supports those associations by the fact that the limit on the deduction is high enough to allow a larger quota to be deducted from this scheme as well. And we also recognise the existence of other forms of trade unions, and they are part of the wording that already exists, so we do not think that there is any reason to change the wording or amount of the deduction. I think that is a fairly clear statement, and it will not be changed by whether or not we hold more group meetings. I am just saying that at group meetings it was just a talk because, yes, there is something here that we recognise the value of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112850	Well, well, union members today are not able to withdraw their entire quota, actually so far from it, and that is why it is a question of how we are going to distribute it here. And there it is just the SF's view that those who contribute to this sophisticated, dynamic, flexible Danish labour market must have a helping hand by subtracting the quota. Are those who just lie in the lurch of others, those who claim to be trade unions but do not do a day's trade union work out there at all, really allowed to lie in hiding just because they call themselves trade unions? In fact, they can be distinguished there. I would just like to call for the support of associations which actually contribute to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112928	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. I see no one else who has asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207112956	The negotiations have been opened. The first to speak is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207113007	Thank you, President. Today, after all, we are dealing with the second motion for a resolution, a proposal from the Enhedslisten, which requires the government to draw up a national blacklist of tax havens. According to Enhedslisten's proposers, the national blacklist should be complementary to the EU blacklist of tax havens. The motion for a resolution proposes that the blacklist on three points should be different from the blacklist on which agreement could be reached in the European Union. Firstly, the national blacklist must cover both third countries and EU countries. The EU blacklist currently covers only third countries, i.e. countries outside the EU. Secondly, countries with a corporation tax rate of less than 9% must. be placed on the national blacklist. Company tax rate is not a criterion for inclusion in the current EU variety list. Thirdly, in the context of the national blacklist, there should be no observation list. Countries should be removed from the national variety list when they comply with the criteria set. In the context of the EU blacklist, there is an observation list of countries that have undertaken to comply with the established criteria of tax transparency, fair taxation and implementation of the so-called BEPS minimum standards. During the first reading on 17 January of two other motions for resolutions, namely to amend the Danish procurement rules and the EU procurement rules for companies in tax havens, B 38 and B 39, this resolution and the EU blacklist were also discussed. It was, as far as I am aware, the Minister for Industry who had the great pleasure of defending the interests of the government in that discussion. I am pleased that the fight against tax havens is taking up all parties in the Folketing and that the discussion that was the other day can now continue. I want to say that as the tax minister I want to see and we want in the government, just as Enhedslisten has an effective blacklist against tax havens, we do. In fact, all parties in the Folketing have concluded an agreement to strengthen their efforts to combat international tax evasion. We did that in May 2017. It's almost a few years ago. And this is emphasised in the agreement, it is important to have a Danish offensive action against tax havens. I and the Minister for Finance have also, in the government's EU policy in the EU and in other international fora, carried out an offensive action against tax havens in accordance with the agreement reached and in respect of that agreement. However, I do not believe that a symbolic national blacklist that only Denmark wants, as proposed by Enhedslisten, is an effective tool. It is as if it were symbolic, because then it would not be an effective tool for promoting good practice in the area of taxation and what we all want. How do we achieve effective action against tax havens? But that is what we are doing by joining forces under the auspices of the OECD, which is a larger club or association of countries than the European Union, and if we cannot agree there, then within the framework of the European Union, where we have strong cooperation in a number of other areas. But not by national symbolic special legislation. The only thing we can use it for is to give fluttering speeches on the speaking chair of the Folketing, where we knock out our arms and say that it is great in Denmark. It doesn't move anything at all. Let me explain why. As I have said, the Enhedslisten proposes, firstly, that the national blacklist should include countries inside and outside the European Union. The EU blacklist only covers countries outside the EU. This is due to the fact that strict rules apply to EU countries' tax systems, among other things. on the exchange of information resulting from existing and binding directives for all EU countries; those requirements are more stringent than those imposed on third countries in order to avoid the variety list. In addition, it is regularly assessed whether EU countries comply with the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation, and the results of the assessment are also reported in six-monthly reports from the Code of Conduct Group. The EU's State aid rules also help to prevent individual countries from taking advantage of certain companies or industries through advantageous tax rules. So overall, these tools ensure a relatively high standard of taxation in the EU countries. Secondly, Enhedslisten proposes that countries with a corporation tax rate of less than 9%. shall be placed on the national blacklist. Higher corporate tax rates do not in themselves lead to fair taxation. Countries can have a high tax rate and, at the same time, a very, very slender tax base. Thus, companies can organise their income-giving activities so that income is not included in the tax base, thereby reducing effective taxation. If we were to start from something, we would have to start from the effective taxation, which is, moreover, calculated both under the auspices of the OECD and under the auspices of the European Union, and not from what Enhedslisten is proposing here with a rate. Then you will not achieve what you want, and then it will be symbolic policy. A minimum rate would therefore not be an effective tool for ensuring fair taxation. Thirdly, Enhedslisten proposes that there should be no list of sightings associated with the national blacklist. According to the resolution, it is a problem that there are currently no more than five countries on the EU blacklist. In fact, I believe that when so few countries appear, it is an effective tool. It shows that more than 60 countries are currently in dialogue with EU countries on their tax arrangements and have undertaken to comply with those criteria. The success criterion is not that as many countries as possible appear on the list, but that as many countries as possible change tax practices in order to comply with EU criteria. Only in this way will we combat tax evasion effectively. When countries undertake to comply with the criteria laid down, they shall be placed on the watch list. Then you can discuss what it takes to move from one list to the other, and follow-up and other things.I will declare myself very willing to do that, but the fact that you have an observation list that people are on, so that we keep them under observation, I think is an effective strategic approach to solving this problem. Sixty-five countries are currently listed on the watch list. It is a priority for this government to follow closely the commitments made by the countries on the watch list. For those countries which do not comply with their obligations, the Council may decide to place them on the blacklist. So, to conclude, it is a Danish priority to ensure ambitious international action against tax avoidance. The EU blacklist is an effective tool for promoting good practice in the field of taxation. The effective results are not achieved by a national blacklist. Of course, we get the opportunity to polish the gloria, but what comes out of it? Not that we are dealing with the problem, on the contrary, that the focus on the problem may disappear. The government will therefore focus on strengthening the EU blacklist rather than national action. We have also done so, and we have worked for it with the support of all parties in the Danish Parliament that the EU's blacklist should be harder and that the criteria should be harder. And it should be easier to get on it and on the watch list. The fight to strengthen the EU blacklist may involve the addition of new criteria in order to avoid blacklisting and more ambitious and offensive measures against blacklisted countries and the extension of the geographical scope of the blacklist, for example. EU countries can be on the list. At the same time, of course, we will also work under the auspices of the OECD. However, we refuse to take steps with national symbolic special legislation in this area, which at best will have little effect on what we all agree to do about, namely the fight against tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207113821	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207113827	Thank you. I think that's a shame. I'm so sorry. It is true that many things need to be done before effective action can be taken against tax havens, but one of the tools in the toolbox is a national blacklisting. It's an opportunity we have. Just a few brief comments: when we think we need to take initiatives ourselves and propose what we are doing, it is because we have the grotesque situation today that a country like Panama, that is, after Panama Papers, has not been included in the EU blacklist. You have the grotesque situation that countries that have a corporation tax rate of 0 can then discuss how they calculate the corporate tax rate, but it is not automatically on the blacklist either. I think that is a problem, and I think that we should do something about it in Denmark, and we could do that with such a blacklist. What I drew up to ask the Minister was: in the Netherlands, led by the Liberal Party of the Left, a national blacklist has just been adopted in the Dutch Parliament. Is it not something that prompts the Minister to consider whether one could not be inspired? So, if a liberal government party with the support of the Dutch Parliament can do so in the Netherlands, could it not also be something we could do in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207113946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207113952	This is new to me, but now I myself or ask my officials to investigate it, and then I will chew on the question mentally, not physically, towards the committee reading and possibly the second reading of this motion for a resolution, but at this stage I can say that the government does not want to introduce a national blacklist, which is being proposed here. Then I will declare myself completely and almost word for word for word for word with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in that it is problematic that Panama is not on the list. Yes, it is problematic that countries with a corporation tax rate of 0 are not on the list, and that is why the government is working to tighten the list. I find it extremely strange that EU countries cannot get on the list, that they should, like, be outside. That is something strange, and we must take that fight in the European Union. We need to use our strength to take it where it bats something and where we can move something, not by adopting something in Denmark where we do not move much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114058	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114101	Well, one thing doesn't rule out the other. I warmly support the fact that the Minister of Taxation is struggling with blood, sweat and tears behind closed doors in Brussels every time he gets the chance to blacklisted Panama and Luxembourg and Malta for that matter. We warmly support that. But we also have things we can do here in the Danish Parliament, and I am sorry that the Minister of Taxation does not follow what his sister party in the Dutch Government is doing. Because I think it is sensible that a political choice has been made in the Netherlands to use the option of making a blacklist. So I would urge you to do so and to regret that you are not prepared to take this step, because I believe that combating tax havens is really something where we should use all the tools in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114150	I am sorry that I have not come to terms with what the Dutch Government has done in this area, but I have the opportunity to do so now. So, it can be difficult to keep track of what is going on in all 28, unfortunately soon only 27 EU countries and also in the liberal parties, which are of course slightly different. But I will read it out and then I will take a position on it, and then I will have a good answer, written or oral, ready for Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen on that question. And then I will be very willing to discuss what we can further do, but not • and that has been my point of view for 3 1⁄2 years as tax minister, for the over 1,000 days I have been sitting on the post • to make national special legislation that has a symbolic character. I would like to help fight tax havens where there is a real effect, and there is the EU and OECD trail that moves something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114238	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114245	Well, it cannot surprise anyone that the Left would like to do what we normally do in Denmark, when there is something in the EU that we are unhappy with, namely to crawl under the covers and hide there and then have it warm and cozy, but nothing really happens. I do not know whether the reason why the tax minister is a little more positive than the tax minister is usually against the EU tax havens is that the debate is taking place in this slightly larger forum rather than in the European Committee. For there I think the government has criticized and problematized this relationship with these countries being taken off so quickly. But here in the Chamber the Minister of Taxation says that this is a very effective protection against tax havens, and I simply cannot see that. Could the tax minister not just enrich us all and tell us what has been done legally by the countries that have been taken off the tax havens? What have they legally done, what have they legally done, so this list now includes nothing but the Danish West Indies and a four or five other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114357	There should, of course, be a connection between what I say in the Committee on European Affairs and what I say down here as a tax minister. In other words, some of the work of the Committee on European Affairs is also being done by the public at least. The view I stand for here and in the European Committee is that it is an effective tool. That it can be an even more effective tool, I fully agree with the Danish People's Party, and we must fight for that in Denmark, and we must use our strength and resources for that. Even if you wish you could do it all, you can't do it all. Sometimes you have to choose where you take your fights, and I think we should take this fight in the context of the European Union. This is one of the areas where it makes sense for us to cooperate and where there is a huge value in it. And that we can make the list better, I fully agree with the Danish People's Party. In general, I must also say that I believe that the government looks more positively at having such a list than the Danish People's Party does. But if I have not made it clear enough that the list could be better, then I would like to regret it, because it can, of course, and that is what Denmark has argued over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114458	Thank you. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114502	But the tax minister did not answer the question at all. So, what is it that Namibia, Antigua and Palau and those countries have done to get off the blacklist and onto the watch list? What have they actually done legally? What have they done? The tax minister must be able to answer that question. I also think that, when the tax minister is given the opportunity to do so, the tax minister should respond to the likelihood that an EU country will ever be included in the EU's blacklist of tax havens. Is it 0.01%, 0.0001 per cent? or 0,00001%?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114541	Yeah, well, I definitely think that's an option. The tax agenda is moving within the EU. In some areas it is moving in the wrong direction with common corporate tax database and others. But tax is one of the things where more and more European politicians are seeing the potential of closer and closer cooperation; that is something we should also be a tiny bit worried about, I should say. However, in a number of areas this is very sensible. So we will assess that in my lifetime and in Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's lifetime I think we're about the same age is a good opportunity for that to happen. But, of course, I can't guarantee it. Then I would like to say to the question as to why countries have gone off the list that, of course, I would like to reply to it. There are various reasons for this; it is different what they have done. And we are very, very happy to explain that in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114625	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114628	Thank you, and thank the tax minister for running and commenting on this. It is a good thing that there is also a broad cooperation here in Denmark on this work. Since the Minister is an expert in this area, I would like the Minister to be able to explain to me what the Minister thinks is the reason why such a national list has only symbolic and poor effect here and why we cannot take the lead in Denmark and correct some of those things in the meantime while we are working under the auspices of the European Union. What is it that makes such a list have symbolic and poor effect, as I hear the Minister say?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114709	On the one hand, I believe that there is a risk of running into some EU legal challenges in terms of what can be done, as long as Denmark is a member of the European Community, in terms of making such a national list with the criteria that the Enhedslisten lays up for it may prove that parts of it, at least with the criteria described, cannot legally be done at all, and that may end in some major legal battles • on the other hand, Denmark is a small, open economy. And even if we look at ourselves with pride and are a proud nation, and we have reason to be, we must also recognise that in a large world we are a smaller country with a very, very open economy. Therefore, many of these companies are speculating in legal tax planning and some, unfortunately, also in illegal tax planning that can bypass Denmark and continue to conduct their business. It is similar to the discussion about asking the old owner Møller to leave the country; then we become poorer as a country, but equality is getting bigger. That doesn't make much sense. And I am afraid that much of the same symbolism will apply to a national blacklisting of tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114826	I do not think it was quite so enriching or enlightening to me what it was in concrete terms, other than such speculation about whether we benefit from having companies in Denmark that cheat on taxes. I don't think that's what we should be supporting. But I didn't really know much more about what it is in this proposal that doesn't want to have an effect or will do it symbolically.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114854	Well, I can only repeat my arguments. If we do not agree with them and agree with the alternative proposal, we have a political disagreement. It happens every once in a while. But that a smaller country like Denmark with an open economy makes such a blacklist as is described here by Enhedslisten, I would warn against. For my assessment as tax minister is that it will have no effect other than the symbolic one. Then, of course, we can discuss the symbolic aspect of taking the lead, but I think it is only better to take the lead within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114929	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the ordinary rapporteur's list, and that is first, Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207114949	I'll be brief. After all, the Minister for Taxation has said a lot of what we are in agreement with. We continue to believe that work should be done on this under the auspices of the European Union and other international fora. In any case, our group in the European Parliament has been very active in drawing up this list, which, of course, must always be optimized. But we see no solution in each country making their own list. We believe that there is a need for a great deal of international cooperation, also because this problem crosses borders to such an extent. So we say primarily an EU plan and otherwise other forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115028	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115033	Thank you. It is clear that we must do everything we can to stop tax havens. We must do so in all the forums where we have the opportunity to do so at all, but one of the places where we can do something is here in the Folketing, and the reality is that the European Union has made a blacklist that is deeply inadequate. Well, just to quote Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, the EU rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, then he said, quote: The EU's blacklist, from a socialist point of view, is a bit of a joke. He did so in Parliament's Committee on Europe. At the same time, Mr. Jeppe Kofod, Danish EU parliamentarian for the Socialists, wrote a speech here saying: Why do we put up with that situation, in other words, in parentheses, that the EU cannot figure out how to make an effective effort. Couldn't Denmark take the lead here? Couldn't Denmark take the lead here? The Socialists have made a move to support the fight against tax havens with Mrs Mette Frederiksen on the front page, which says that the fight against tax havens and tax speculation begins in Denmark, because although it must also be fought at EU level, there is a great deal we can do ourselves, for example a national blacklist. Why not back this proposal from Enhedslisten? It will be a step on the way to stop the mess that tax havens are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115159	Of course, the game begins in Denmark. The question is which lists should apply and where to make them. Now the rapporteur wants to go down to the European Parliament himself. It's a fight you can fight there. However, I would like to say that the Socialist Member of the European Parliament has done a great deal, and there are different views on this in the European Parliament, but it is a battle that I believe must be fought primarily in international forums and in the European Parliament, where there are, of course, differences of opinion. That does not change the fact that we can, of course, take the discussion here too, but when we have to make a list, we think it is quite fine that this is something that is being fought for in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115234	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115236	But why? So, Enhedslisten also wants to fight tax havens in the European Parliament, but we want to use our place in the Folketing to fight tax havens. We have a huge hole, to be a little pictorial, out of which billions come, and we have a toolbox where there is a tool called a national blacklist. Why not use that tool? It doesn't stop everything, but it's a step on the way. Why not pick up that tool and use it? What is the argument that the Social Democratic Party does not want to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115308	It is because we are very concerned about international cooperation that we are very concerned about the European Union and perhaps have a different attitude towards the European Community than Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, which would rather see the heel of the European Union than the toe. It is clear that there will be a disagreement about where it is, you have to solve these things, what kind of lists they are. We could also see a problem if each country made their own lists, because that is so much the problem that crosses national borders, but that does not mean that we in the Danish Parliament should not take this very seriously. We think we have done the same on the part of the Social Democrats when there are these major problems with precisely money running away from the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115345	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and welcome to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115402	Thank you, sir. President.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115405	Before mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth starts, I would like to say that I am betting that we can hear the rapporteur's speech and take the debate right after the midday break.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115412	Great, you get the last word. It couldn't be better. A few weeks ago, we discussed two proposals in the Danish Parliament, including the Enhedslisten, concerning the fight against tax havens, and today it is the third proposal. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we would like to take this opportunity again to stress that we consider it unreasonable that companies located in tax havens benefit from the welfare that we all contribute to paying over the tax, without being willing to pay for even the same welfare. This happens, for example, when companies in tax havens participate in public procurement. We are also in favour in principle of a Danish blacklist of tax havens, but not all parts of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution we agree with. We are therefore opposed to Enhedslisten's ambition to establish, as stated in the proposal, an international base for corporation tax, which is significantly higher than 9%. Because who's gonna do it? We are not on the side of the Danish People's Party in favour of the EU doing so. I do not know whether it is the European Union that the Enhedslisten wants to have to take that decision, because Enhedslisten is, of course, known to me against the European Union. I also do not know whether the Enhedslisten might instead imagine that such a decision could be taken at the UN level, but I do not really think that has its reality either. Then there is the OECD and, frankly, I doubt it. In the Danish People's Party, we are basically of the opinion that states must do as they please, even when it comes to the level of corporation tax, but, and this is an important qualification, other countries must also have the right to take the necessary measures to counter very low corporate taxes and other tax havens, for example. by excluding companies in tax havens from participating in public procurement. So that a national Danish list of tax havens should be precisely drawn up, as the Enhedslisten proposes, is not necessarily certain, but we would like to express our fundamental support for the idea of a national blacklist of tax havens and for the proposal as a whole, although there are some of the comments that we do not share.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115648	In view of the relatively short rapporteur's speech, we can take the one brief comment that is currently being made, namely from Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115659	It is to answer the question put by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about what we mean by an international minimum rate of corporation tax, and that is something we have also proposed here. What we are imagining and what we are proposing is an intergovernmental agreement in which countries can join, if they like. Why? In order to stop the race towards the bottom, as we are currently experiencing at corporate tax level, where there is competition to have the lowest possible level, which means that there is a lack of money in the Treasury for welfare. Why, then, should we have such an agreement with a number of countries that want to join? It is precisely in order to avoid competing down, but also in order to be able to do so, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth talks about taking measures against those who then do not choose to join. So I hope that this clarification will lead to the Danish People's Party being able to support the proposal. Because I think it would be good if the Danish People's Party were also involved in working for a national Danish blacklisting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115803	I think we should support the proposal in this Chamber. When I mention it, it's just because it's • and Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen very important for the Danish People's Party to emphasise national sovereignty, and I also thought it was good that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen had clarified what Enhedslisten imagines. It is clear that an agreement of this kind can be reached, but it should also be expected that those countries which do not want to live up to it will not be part of it, i.e. Antigua, Barbados, and what they are all called. They're gonna be outside. Then it is quite fine that an agreement can be reached where sanctions are imposed on those countries as long as it is an intergovernmental agreement and as long as it is not something, for example. is made under a different regime, which obliges the Member States in a way that makes them unable to get out of it again. So it's fine. It's probably not something that's coming tomorrow, and that's why I think it's important to take this step with this national blacklist on the Danish side, and it's also interesting to hear about what the Rutte government has done in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115900	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115904	It was good that we had that clarification. I think it is important that we put in place where we can, and here there is an opportunity to take action and do something. And I think it is really a pity that we heard from both the government and the Social Democrats earlier that the European Union is becoming a sleeping pillow. Because that is really what is happening. We have a tool that we can use, and then we talk about something that could happen at some point behind closed doors in Brussels, and that is why we do not want to trade in Denmark. I think it is important that, in a matter such as tax havens, we do everything we can to stop this mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207115940	We can only agree on that. The fact is that this EU blacklist isn't worth the paper it's written on, and you must excuse me very much, but the treasure minister's enthusiasm for that list is absurd. Well, it's worth nothing with the five or six countries that are left on it, led by the Danish West Indies, our good old colony. I don't know what they've done that's so terrible. They may have to give them friendly advice on how to get rid of them. I don't think it's that hard. I guess it's just a matter of having some symbolic thoughts about what you might be able to do. So maybe they're gonna get off it sometime.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207120014	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. There are no more brief remarks, and that means that after the midday break at 1 p.m. 13.00 is the first rapporteur, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130007	The sitting is resumed. We are discussing paragraph 6, and the next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130022	Thank you. It is actually our EU rapporteur, Jan E. Jørgensen, who has the bill, but I have promised to give his speech. However, I am a tax rapporteur and can easily answer questions anyway. With the resolution we are debating today, the Enhedslisten will instruct the government to draw up a national blacklist of tax havens. According to the proposers, the list should be complementary to the EU blacklist of tax havens. The Enhedslisten proposes that the national blacklist should differ from the EU blacklist on three points. These three points have already been well explained by the Minister, so I will not tire the rapporteurs with a representation of them. The purpose of the resolution is to create an effective blacklist of tax havens. In line with Enhedslisten, the Left wants an effective blacklist of tax havens. In the Left, we just believe that a national blacklist is not the right or most effective tool when it comes to promoting good practice in the field of taxation. Here we believe that the best efforts are being made within the EU framework, and we actually believe that the EU blacklist is quite effective. The fact that so few countries appear on the list indicates that the list is working. The aim is not that as many countries as possible should be on the list, but that as many countries as possible should change the practice so that they comply with the EU's tax criteria. We will therefore work to strengthen the European Union's blacklist rather than to introduce a national supplement, as proposed by the motion for a resolution. The Left cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives, because the Conservative rapporteur was unable to be present, and to say that they do not support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130204	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130209	Thank you. Of course, I find it deeply regrettable that the Left refuses to use the opportunity to make an ambitious and effective blacklisting of tax havens here in Denmark. I can then understand from both the rapporteur and the tax minister, who is also from the Left, that what you want to do is a well-defined list within the European Union. The tax minister said here, and I very much agree with it, that it is deeply problematic that we have a number of tax havens within the EU that are not on the list at all, such as Luxembourg, Malta, Cyprus. There I would just like to hear from the Left rapporteur: what is the precise plan that the Left intends to follow in order to achieve a tighter blacklisting of the European Union? In reality, the EU has made a list; it is deeply unambitious and there is no EU country on it. How is it to be made tighter?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130313	After all, the European Union is a democracy and it works in various ways, depending on whether it is Parliament or whether it is governments that work and the Danish Government is clearly working for us to have stricter rules for blacklisting. There is no doubt about that. We are fighting for it in all areas, both in the EU and in the OECD, where there are BEPS rules. We have also made an effort in Denmark to ensure that people place money in tax havens. We've chosen to buy Panama Papers. So we've made a number of different moves to put extra focus on this tax havens. However, we clearly believe that the best thing to do here is to cooperate with the other EU countries, and there we are one of the countries that is fighting for strict rules than there are at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130356	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130357	Well, I am not saying that we should not try to fight for a tighter blacklist in the European Union, on the contrary. We would very much like to see that on the Enhedslisten side. The reality is that this has not been achieved in the EU circle. When the Left's argument against taking a Danish initiative to make an effective, ambitious blacklisting of tax havens is that you want to do it in the EU, then I think it is important that you can demonstrate how you intend to do it in the EU. Otherwise, it is just a sleeping pillow where time will pass and the billions rush out of the hole, which, unfortunately, tax havens are for our common welfare community.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130438	Well, there are several reasons why you shouldn't make a national list. On the one hand, we are fighting for it in the European Union, and we are doing so through the negotiations that are in this area. There are various debates, and I cannot, of course, refer to debates in general, and I do not think that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is asking me to do so here either. However, I can only say that the Left and the Government attach great importance to the fact that we have as strict rules as possible so that we are sure to have those who can be tax havens. On the other hand, I do not think that making a national blacklist has much effect either. If you look at it and ask yourself, who would be afraid of losing trade with Denmark? I do not think that is something that means a great deal to a great many countries, because we are not sufficiently large. However, when the European Union does so, it is a very effective tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130522	Thank you. And then it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130524	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm for joining Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's place is good. But it can be said that the result was the same, that is, that the Left did not support this proposal, and we can only mourn that in the Danish People's Party. I would just like to ask the Left whether the Left can really be satisfied that an indication from a country that is on the blacklist that would do something is sufficient to get off the blacklist. In other words, can the Left really be satisfied that it is not even legally binding, not even politically binding, but simply to give such an indication of wanting to do something to get out of the blacklist that the European Union has?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130618	There is no doubt that it is important for the Left that the countries move in the right direction, and it is also my clear view that this is what these countries are working on. And that is why they are working on the list and there they have to meet the standards that we have implemented, among other things. in the European Union and under the auspices of the OECD, where we have laid down rules on how to provide information on the flow of money between companies between countries and those like them. And these are the sort of things that we need to get information about so that we can see whether some companies cheat on putting too much money in another country. These are some of the rules that you have to live up to to to smoke off that tax havens, or blacklist as it really is. I really think it is very positive if these countries want to comply more closely with these rules. And I don't think you can count on them to live up to it overnight. It takes some time to implement it, also because many of the countries on the list are relatively small countries with small administrations, and it is also necessary to allow them to work through it and move on with it. But the important thing is that progress is constantly being made and that we can see that they are moving away from being a tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130720	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130722	I do not really understand why Mrs Louise Schack Elholm did not just take the opportunity to answer 'yes' to my question, or rather 'no', because that was probably the right answer to the question and then said that the Left was not satisfied with it. Because the fact is that the way you get off the blacklist is that you say you want to do something. And then the question is: can one trust that a country which has been operating as a tax havens for years just so much changes it? I guess you can't. So would the right approach at least be to wait until something actually happened before removing those countries from the blacklist?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130804	I mean, many of these countries don't even always know how they do things themselves, and so there are often others working together on this, for example. The World Bank is helping them get a handle on how to do things. There it can also be used as a tool to point out which way to go. But it can also be a blow to the face. And there we must be sure that what we are working towards is not that they just give up, but that they are working towards a good tax practice so that we do not have tax havens in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130831	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207130839	Thank you. I have certainly been in this connection. Motion for a resolution B 34 on the fight against tax avoidance is a matter of great concern to a great many people, and it also concerns the Liberal Alliance, which is why we were also included in the agreement to strengthen the fight against international tax evasion back in 2017. We agree with the fight against tax havens, but unfortunately when we in the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution, it is because we do not believe that the proposal contains the effective element in the fight against tax havens. For tax havens is certainly an international problem, and that is why we of course also believe that it is a global international effort that is preferable. On the contrary, the proposal here requires the government to draw up a national blacklist of tax havens in third countries, but also in EU countries, which are already subject to stricter rules that effectively counteract tax havens in EU countries better than a national blacklist of tax havens in EU countries could do. We believe that the EU blacklist already acts as an effective tool against tax havens, and if we are to step up efforts against tax havens, the Liberal Alliance believes that this should be done by strengthening international action through the EU blacklist. That is why, as I said, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131023	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131027	Firstly, I would like to say that there is nothing in this proposal to prevent a much more effective action tomorrow in the European Union. Nothing's stopping that. The question is simply: are we here in the Folketing to use the tool of making an effective, ambitious blacklisting of tax havens, or are we not going to do so? The EU has made a list. I understand from the rapporteur that it is a good list, which is considered to be quite sufficient if I understood the rapporteur correctly, and that then leads me to ask a question. Does the Liberal Alliance really believe that, after the disclosure of Panama papers, we now have a situation in which Panama is not blacklisted as a tax haven, for the sole reason that they have said that they will have to change something at some point? Is this really an effective blacklisting by the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131134	After all, it is also about the size of the muscle in this context, and it is therefore indisputable that, once again, when the European Union as a whole is behind such a blacklist, it has a higher degree of efficiency and can pose a more effective threat to it here. Whether it operates at a very substantial level can always be up for discussion, and there is always room for improvement. In the specific case mentioned by the questioner, one might perhaps say that one has some kind of confidence that something will happen and one follows up on it at EU level, and there are other international associations that also follow up on this, the World Bank and so on. So I actually believe that we can move the situation that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131231	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131233	It could also be said that it is deeply naive to think that a country such as Panama will stop being a tax haven just because they are sending some text from the hot countries that they will eventually do so. So, I do not think it is a coincidence that Panama is a tax haven and I think they have been so with completely open eyes, but now it is once the case that it is better to have a bird in your hand than ten birds on the roof, and I really think that is what we are discussing today. Yes, it would be fantastic if the EU had a more efficient, ambitious blacklisting. It would also be nice if the UN could adopt one of these, but if there is not, why not do so here in the Folketing and get that bird in the hand and thus the tool that could help to make more effective efforts against tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131321	Now that we are talking about the hot countries, it is very relevant, one might say. When we talk about Panama and naivety, I might actually say that, as far as I am concerned, it is a little naive to believe that in any context a national blacklist will cause hot countries to shake their pants, but I am sure that will be the case, as is already the case, in relation to the EU blacklist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131351	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131404	Thank you. Tax havens are devastating to the confidence of society, and we therefore need to take the right steps to get rid of this. We therefore support the proposal for a detailed national list of tax havens. This will increase transparency and the information base for citizens and businesses. It is positive that countries can commit themselves and thus be removed from the blacklist in Europe. It is a positive development that should be honoured. However, it is unclear how the countries are being monitored that they are actually implementing the necessary steps. In January 2018, Mr. Kristian Jensen to the Tax Committee that it was positive that the blacklist had helped to move the countries in the right direction. We agree with that as a starting point. At the same time, it is questionable if a grey list opens up the possibility of tax havens being removed from the blacklist based on promises that are not kept. We therefore support the Enhedslisten's proposal for a national list of tax havens. I do not know whether it was an opening from the Left, in relation to being inspired by other countries in Europe, the Netherlands, which apparently also work for something similar. At any rate, I would urge that this is not just something we are saying here, but that we might actually be able to talk about something that would have to be changed in order for the Left to support it, so that the Left not only supports it when we want to ward off black work for Danish footballers, but also when it comes to companies and tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131539	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur on the Radical Left. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, so we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131612	We can support this proposal. I think it is an important errand, which it addresses, an important task, it addresses, but I also agree with those who say that it is basically an international task to get hold of tax havens. In other words, this cannot in any way replace the work of the European Union by having an effective EU blacklist, nor can it replace what might happen in the OECD, where there is much going on. But the addition of national efforts does not seem to us to be harmful in any way. It can actually be inspiring. But I agree with those who say that this is totally inadequate. Of course it is because it is only when you get international solutions that it bats something. I hope, then, that it can also inspire the Enhedslisten to a slightly more realistic approach to the European Union than they currently have. After all, it is still their policy, I know, that we need to get out of the European Union. You are very concerned about brexit, I know, and I simply do not understand that. Given the importance of addressing such tasks within the European Union, I hope that Enhedslisten will go out and have a much more positive approach to European cooperation. Because it's gonna be necessary for the left to go into this. It is the extreme right that is constantly strongly opposed. But, as I said, we can support this. It is therefore good that we should also tackle this at national level.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131752	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I see that we are through the rapporteur's line and then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207131810	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. I am very pleased that there is support for the proposal from SF, from the Alternative and from the Danish People's Party. That's a good start. Unfortunately, then, there is no majority in favour of the proposal, and I think that is a pity. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is, of course, to make effective efforts against tax havens, and that is very important. There have been a bit of different arguments on the table against the proposal, but an argument which has gone back and on which I would like to comment is that it should be naive to think that adopting this proposal would change anything at all. I would just like to try to illustrate what would be achieved with such a proposal as this. We adopt a blacklist here in the Folketing. On the blacklist are Luxembourg and Panama and a large number of other countries. Then you can see that there is a company operating here in Denmark we call it just x. X company moves its money into tax havens in a tax haven that is blacklisted by the Danish Parliament. It's gonna be something that's pushing a company like that. This will mean that we as a consumer can take the consequences. It will also allow us to discuss whether it would involve specific sanctions, for example to say that they should not then have tax dollars from public procurement. And that would be something you could use internationally by saying in another country: Try to hear here, this x company has been blacklisted by the Danish Parliament. I think that could actually have a consequence, both specifically here in Denmark, but also around the world. This would be a very concrete example of being a pioneering country. There are parties that talk hot about that. Among other things: We have been able to hear from the Social Democratic Party time and time again before the debate that Denmark was a pioneering country in the fight against tax havens. It is their EU parliamentarian Jeppe Kofod who has said so, and a large number of other socialists have said so. The official proposal from the Social Democratic Party is that it is important that the fight against tax havens starts in Denmark, but then you were not prepared to take that start here today. Social democracy has rejected this otherwise good proposal for a very concrete example of a tool we could take out of the toolbox and use here in Denmark if there was political will to use it and put in place effective action. After all, the reality is that we are missing out on an extremely large amount of money. We're talking about an estimated 5 billion. kr. a year, which we lose as a community because of tax havens alone here in Denmark. I mean, it's money that could have been spent in nursing homes, in day care institutions, in schools and in hospitals... money that could have been spent in our welfare community. We have a huge hole, and I think it's a mess. I think we should do everything we can. We must do everything we can in the European Union to get a tighter blacklisting. We must do everything we can in the OECD. But I miss the fact that the government is concrete. It is not acceptable for us to have a situation in which billions of people are being cheated, the community is being cheated, and there is no road map for what the hell is going to be done to stop it. The reality is that when Danish ministers want to show up behind closed doors in Brussels and say that Luxembourg must be blacklisted, Luxembourg will say: yes, yes, fuck and jump; this must be adopted unanimously; you cannot do anything about it, and we also have the support of Malta and Cyprus. And then nothing happens. That's the problem in this. In the end, as I said earlier in the debate, you go dreaming of ten birds on the roof and forget to take the bird in your hand that you can catch. That is really the situation. Yes, it would be fantastic if the United Nations had an effective, ambitious blacklisting of tax havens if the OECD could do so if the European Union could do it very well. That's just not the situation. Well, let's use the tools in the box. I think it is sad that there is no majority, and I think there are a lot of people who are wondering about it. Because when these scandals, Panama Papers and a number of other scandals come, there are no limits to the outrage and for good reason, but words are not enough. I mean, this money will continue to go out if we don't put action behind words. That is what we are proposing here today. So you can say, isn't it just something that Enhedslisten pulls out of the hat, and just something weird? No. Quite a few months ago, as I had to draw the attention of the tax minister, the Netherlands, led by a liberal government, by the Left's sister party, which is a party with which the Left often prides itself on having many consistent positions, has created a national blacklisting. The Netherlands is even a country that can rightly be said to be a tax haven, but they have taken that initiative. They don't want to be ridiculous. And why do the rest of us have to be ridiculous? Let us take a similar initiative here in Denmark. I very much hope that the tax minister will do what he promised, namely to go home and have his officials and himself look carefully at what has been done in the Netherlands. And then let us have a discussion, which the Minister proposed, of whether we should not at least copy it here in Denmark. It is clear that a country such as the Netherlands, which is itself a tax haven within the EU, does not want to blacklist other EU countries, but if Denmark, for example, is going to blacklist other EU countries. It could be that Sweden found it inspiring to do so. It could be that France found it inspiring to do so. It could be that Spain found it inspiring to do so. At least we have coordinated ourselves with our European friends on the part of the Enhedslisten in a large number of EU countries, including Denmark. Spain, France, Portugal, Finland and Sweden, and arranged for similar proposals to be made in those parliaments. Because we have to take initiatives. Surely we should not wait for things to change suddenly at a meeting behind closed doors where nothing has happened so far. So dear friends, I am really, really sorry that we have not been able to obtain a majority today for effective action against tax havens, but I very much hope that those parties that have turned to this will reconsider whether it is really the most effective thing to sit and look at a sleeping pillow called the European Union, which has not been able to pull itself together to do something effective and use it as a bad excuse not to do what would be effective tomorrow, which we can do here and now in Denmark, namely make a blacklist. So thank you for the debate and hopefully a majority will soon be able to come together for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207132557	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207132613	The debate is open and we give the floor to the first rapporteur. It is the Social Democrat rapporteur and that is Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207132635	Thank you. The draft law here is a series of mixed candy which contains a number of things: a reduction in the tax on beer and wine with a view to reducing frontier trade, the abolition of registration fees on aircraft, the abolition of the feed phosphate tax and financing by increasing the residual tax rate on corporation tax by a fixed surcharge of 2%. Compared to the first part of the bill on the taxes on beer and wine, we in the Social Democratic Party are generally concerned with making it easy and attractive to operate in Denmark. In fact, we are also one of the best countries in the world for that. We have had a visit to the Committee on Taxation, where we have discussed the issue of cross-border trade and how we find the right cut. It is sensible to keep on looking at our taxes and also adjust them so that they are at the level of the countries around us and so that we do not unnecessarily shift jobs in the retail sector outside the country's borders. So we are in favour of that part, just as we can also support the increase in the residual tax rate. However, overall, we cannot support the bill because of the other two parts that are also included in it. Firstly, there is the abolition of registration tax on aircraft. This is a priority that we wonder about. Well, it's a small amount, but with a big symbol value. The government is not willing to give priority to a real shift in car taxation so that we can have more green cars on the roads, but would like to make it cheaper for wealthy people to buy and register aircraft. We are against that part. The same is true of abolishing the feed phosphate levy. It is another of the proposals from this government that are drawing in the wrong direction for our nature and environment. As the comments on the proposal directly state: abolition in isolation can increase phosphorus surpluses in the short term. Green organisations are also critical of this. So, on this basis, we want to split the bill so that we can treat the registration fee on aircraft and the feed phosphate tax separately. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207132842	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207132850	Thank you. This bill is, after all, the implementation of parts of the 2019 Financial Law Agreement, which contain several different initiatives, the first of which I would like to mention is the reduction of the tax on beer and wine, which, of course, has the obvious aim of reducing cross-border trade. The reason why we want to reduce cross-border trade is that we can ensure that there will be more turnover in Danish shops, and more turnover in Danish shops means more Danish jobs, and that is what we think is important that we focus on. But there is also another good argument, which is often forgotten when we talk about reducing these taxes, and that is actually our environment. Because I don't think it makes much sense that 40-50 trucks may go down to the border shops every night to deliver their goods, and that the Danes can then connect the trailer on the car to drive the other way to get the goods home. In other words, it would be better for the environment to trade your goods in the shops close to where you lived, and there it is, after all, a step in the right direction, both in relation to cross-border trade and in relation to the environment. Another measure in the proposal, which is a rather small measure, is the abolition of registration fees on aircraft, an action of 5 million. kr. I must honestly say that this is not the kind of proposal we have tried to fight into the budget law, but a financial law is, after all, a compromise among different parties, where we saw, among other things. has fought to get 1.3 billion. kr. to improve the conditions for pensioners and where other parties have then hoped to bring this with them. But, of course, we also support that approach because it is part of an overall agreement. The third point in the bill is the abolition of the feed phosphate levy, which is also relatively small in economic terms: 15 million. kr. in a lasting effect. The reason why it is removed is, of course, as can be seen from the legislative proposal, that the use of phosphorus in feed is regulated by another legislation in the future, and therefore there is no need to regulate via the same-style tax any longer. The last measure, which is the financing of these measures, is in fact a little more of an increase in the residual tax rate on corporation tax. Because it is the case today that if a company pays too little in aconto tax, it naturally results in a residual tax, and the residual tax will then have to pay interest until it has been repaid. Today the interest rate is 2.80%. From now on it will be 4.8%. The reason behind that proposal is, of course, that it should not be worthwhile to sit around and wonder whether it is best to pay too little in aconto tax and thus have a debt to the state in relation to perhaps having a debt on its bank credit. So I actually think that's quite reasonable funding when you look at this entire bill. In those words, however, I must say that we naturally support the proposal, as it is part of the Financial Law Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133129	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133136	Thank you for the floor. The Left wants to make it cheaper to be a Dane, and this package of tax reductions will both make it cheaper to be a Dane, but it will also improve Denmark's competitiveness. One of the things we are doing here is to relax the tax on beer and wine, and we hope that this will provide a greater incentive to trade beer and wine at home instead of traveling outside Denmark's borders to buy beer and wine for consumption, and in this way we can hopefully reduce the border trade. By abolishing the feed phosphate levy, we also focus on the competitiveness of Danish agriculture and ensure that it has a better competitiveness than it currently has, where it is under great pressure from countries that are not as good on the environment as we are in Denmark. So I believe that it would be best for Denmark to have the feed phosphate tax removed. Then it is proposed to abolish the registration tax on aircraft, and this is done because you do not have this tax in Sweden and Norway. So at this stage there is an incentive to register the aircraft in our neighbouring countries instead of in Denmark, and we cannot have an interest in that. We certainly want air traffic to take place from Denmark's airports, so that the Danes have the best opportunities to travel with work or other, and so large international companies have an interest in coming to Denmark because it is easy to get here. So that's also why we're putting up with it. Then, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, we propose to increase the residual tax rate on corporation tax by a fixed increase of 2 percentage points. So that means that it is those who have not paid on time that are going to pay a little more. In this way, the bill will all in all improve conditions in Danish business, and the initiatives will make it easier to operate in Denmark, and this will benefit the Danes and hopefully provide a better basis for growth in Denmark, of which we fortunately have quite a lot, and the Left sees this very positively. The draft law, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, translates into parts of the financial law agreement, and on that basis the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133353	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133359	Thank you, President. After all, the proposal we are debating here today translates into three of the more unfortunate initiatives from the 2019 Financial Act. These are tax reductions aimed primarily at business and more wealthy sections of the population, and the consequences of adopting this bill are damage to nature, the environment and the climate and to public health. Firstly, the government and the Danish People's Party will lower the tax on beer and wine, and the consequence of that we know. It is that we are increasing the consumption of alcohol to the detriment of public health and, according to the border shops themselves, this is hardly something that will have any particular significance. Secondly, the registration tax on aircraft will be abolished. One can of course regard the registration fee as a tax for obtaining a vessel that is very harmful to the climate, and when we abolish the tax on it, it will in principle amount to a subsidy to obtain such a vessel, and we do not believe that there is a need for this at this time when we really need to reduce air traffic rather than the contrary. Moreover, this is also a targeted tax relief for the very few Danes who have the opportunity to acquire their own private aircraft. Finally, the levy on feed phosphate will be abolished in agricultural animal feed. It was a tax introduced in 2004 and the idea was then, as now, to reduce the use of phosphate in order to reduce the emissions of phosphates into nature. At the same time, the levy financed a reduction in the basic levy for agriculture, orchards and other items which were carried out at the same time. So in this way it can be said that this proposal is, of course, a kind of friend service to conventional agriculture. The Government's own Cleaning Commission stated in 2017 that it was considered that there was no tax base to meet this proposal to abolish the feed phosphate tax and that abolition would result in more phosphorus being emitted from agriculture than with the tax, to the detriment of nature and the environment. However, it seems that the government and the Danish People's Party do not care about this. However, the three elements at least together make it impossible for Enhedslisten to support this draft law. Indeed, we support the increased residual tax rate on corporate tax, but we believe that the proceeds are being used incorrectly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133658	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133706	Thank you very much for that, President. As everyone knows, it is expensive to be a citizen of Denmark, and it is also expensive to operate in Denmark too expensively, I am actually tempted to say. But fortunately, this government and therefore the Liberal Alliance are doing something about that. We have seen a total of 21.7 billion tax relief for me. kr., and we will continue to do so in the future if we have the opportunity to do so. We do, among other things. with this bill, which translates parts of the Finance Act. It may seem to be in the petty department when we want to reduce the tax on beer and wine and remove the registration fee for aircraft and remove the levy on feed phosphate. However, but on the whole it is tax reductions which not only make it cheaper and easier to be a Dane or a company in Denmark, it also means a very large simplification of an enormously complex tax system in Denmark. This makes it easier for companies, and again for citizens, to find their heads and tails, which taxes they pay when, and it must be difficult to oppose if you ask me. Then I know that there are parties, probably mainly on the left side of the Parliamentary Chamber, who would argue that we are just favouring our rich friends when we remove the registration tax on aircraft, but we are really simply harmonising the rules with those who, for example, are. is in Norway and Sweden. We are thus making it more attractive to register these planes in Denmark, and that will create more jobs for the people employed at our airports, including aircraft mechanics, etc. Of course, the Liberal Alliance, which I think is well known, would always very much like to help ease taxes and charges in favour of Danes, in favour of companies, and therefore, of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133935	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207133943	Thank you for that, President. I usually try to speak as positively as possible about the proposals here, but I find that a little difficult in this case. I think that, in relation to all parts of this proposal, except by increasing the residual tax rate for corporation tax, it is a proposal that is moving in the totally wrong direction compared to what we currently need in Denmark and in the world. If we take the first, which concerns the reduction of the tax on beer and wine, the government believes that the tax reduction on beer and wine should help to reduce border trade. However, it is difficult to see that a price difference of DKK 7.28. per In the case of beer, liters of pure alcohol will reduce border trade by some significant means. It is therefore problematic that the government is proposing a price reduction, although the effect will be minimal, as is also pointed out by the Cooperating Merchants in their consultation response. Reducing the price of beer and wine will most likely lead to an increase in alcohol consumption with related public health problems. There you can then discuss whether it is economically smart, but it is certainly not appropriate in relation to the people who will be affected by this. Several studies show that Danish young people in particular are among those who drink the most in Europe. A reduction in the price of beer and wine will certainly not contribute to anything positive in this context. As the fight against cancer points out in their response to consultation, instead of lowering the price of alcohol, we must follow the recommendation of the World Health Organisation and introduce minimum prices. This is something that we in the Alternative think would be a much more sensible way to go. Then we have the removal of registration tax on aircraft. And there may well be something sensible about harmonising across countries, but there is just nothing sensible about running a race where you race towards the bottom in terms of removing taxes. Perhaps we could harmonise in a slightly different way. At a time when the environment is crying out when our planet is crying out for care and when we are experiencing many economic consequences of the development that we have in our society, we are going to do something like this that is not economically important, but environmentally important so much that it contributes financially to the major consequences of the environmental crisis for us. And these are quite different amounts that we are talking about when we talk about the fact that we are not doing anything about the environmental crisis today. The costs we get are just increasing and increasing for every year we don't act, and then you do something like this. I don't see how there's any sense in that. Then we have the abolition of the feed phosphate tax. After all, it has been used to regulate the consumption of feed phosphate. Now there is another legislation that needs to regulate consumption, which is why it is believed that the tax can be removed. We do not agree with that. I think that whatever is reasonable, even when we have to think again about the environment, we have to think about the fact that animal production in agriculture is also going in a totally wrong direction and is taking place at a level that we do not need at all. So there would be no harm in lowering the level of animal production. And if a tax can help to help, that is something we will be in favour of. If it's growth you want, I think you should plant some trees instead. This is completely ridiculous. And if we plant the land with trees instead, I promise you that we will grow, and then it will also contribute something more positive for Denmark and for the Danes and also for people in the rest of the world. I think that having an ambition that it should be cheaper to be a Dane is a sad ambition in itself, and I wish there were other ambitions where one talked about that it might be better to be a Dane, but it could also just be that we should try to ensure that it was possible to be a Dane in the future. Then I was pleased to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mention the And I can actually see something fair in that. Now I just think you might want to talk about reducing the tax on other and a little more healthy goods to help these merchants it could be fruit and vegetables, and that could be other things. I think I will finish by saying that if it did not just appear from what I have said that the alternative cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134435	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134447	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is the implementation of our Financial Law Agreement. We have made a very good financial law agreement, which is why this is also a very good legislative proposal, I think. With the bill here we strengthen Danish companies' opportunities to compete, and we lower and reduce taxes that today limit Danish companies, and therefore we also help to reduce cross-border trade. In the past, we have sunk and completely abolished hacks and troublesome and harmful and growth-retardant taxes, and in the Conservative People's Party, we are really happy and satisfied that with this Finance Act we are taking another round to clean up the tax jungle. It must be easier to operate in Denmark, and it must be cheaper to be a Dane, and this bill is moving in the right direction. Specifically, the proposal facilitates taxes on beer and wine, so that we reduce some of the border trade that is taking place, drags trade home to Denmark and strengthens our retail trade. Secondly, the registration tax on aircraft is abolished, just as we have done on aircraft, for example. ships, and in this way we prevent aircraft from being registered abroad, including in our neighbouring countries, in order to avoid paying taxes. Finally, the feed phosphate levy is abolished. After all, it does not really make sense to have that tax when we have introduced a regulation in 2017 on how much feed phosphate may be used. On the other hand, the elimination of feed phosphate is a welcome relief for many farms. So in the Conservative People's Party, we are pleased with all the decisions that are moving in the right direction towards lower taxes and better conditions for our companies, as this bill does, so we can of course back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134653	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134656	It is because I wanted to ask the rapporteur for the Conservatives if, when the rapporteur says that we are happy with everything where these taxes are abolished, we also welcome it if there is a risk to the environment. That is what the Ministry itself points out, that is, there will be an increase in phosphorus, and that is what the tax intends to limit and to ensure that alternatives are also considered. Is the rapporteur not concerned that it is the environment that pays the bill for the tax reductions that the party then votes for?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134732	No, because, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we already have regulation in this area. In fact, there is a requirement as to how much feed phosphate can be used. That is why it does not help at the same time to impose a tax when we have already regulated a ceiling on the amount to be applied, so I do not share that concern. As I have also understood, this is a minimal risk that this will change the consumption of feed phosphate. What we have to bear in mind is that the individual farmer has no interest in suddenly starting to use more feed phosphate than the animals need or than the limit already is, just because we are removing a levy. What we know, on the other hand, is that this is something that will benefit agriculture, it is something that will keep its hands on a profession that is actually quite under pressure. So I think it is very sensible not to have a tax when we have at the same time regulated how much can be used by law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134818	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134819	As far as regulation is concerned, I am aware that it has not yet entered into force, and that means that there will be a few years in which we do not have the regulation where the tax has then been removed. What is the rapporteur's position on that part of it? Green organisations say that there is a risk to the environment and that if it is washed out to the environment, it is a problem. Does the rapporteur not recognise this? If we see that there is an increase in the use of phosphate for animals, will the Conservatives look at it again and say that it was perhaps not so clever?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134853	Well, in that case, it is the regulation that we need to look at rather than a tax. I do not think that this dual regulation makes any sense, in other words where we have a tax, when we have at the same time regulated its use, that is to say the quantity, through another legislation. This is a double regulation which is not necessary. What we have to bear in mind, and what Mrs Lea Wermelin may just overlook in this conclusion, is that the individual farmer has no interest in starting to use more feed phosphate than the animals need; it also costs money. So whether there is a charge or not, you have no interest in starting to use more feed phosphate. That is why I am not so worried that we should suddenly start using more of it, even if we remove the tax, and if we had to, we have regulated by law how much we can use.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134935	Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207134938	Thank you. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that we must support agriculture. Agriculture has a very large debt and this is a very big problem for agriculture. It is a profession that I think we do not appreciate very much. On the other hand, I am surprised that the rapporteur thinks that we should support those parts of agriculture that harm our country, or at least I would like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that we should state aid to those parts of agriculture that harm our country. I think it seems weird. I think Conservatives in this context should perhaps consider changing color on their party logo at least it doesn't ring with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135026	I think it is a very strange question, then, agriculture that is damaging our country! I know that agriculture contributes a great deal to Danish society. It is a very important export business, which partly generates really important income for our balance of payments, partly creates jobs, so to speak about that it is something that harms Denmark, I think is a completely wrong conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135049	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135050	That was by no means my conclusion either. I say: are we going to support those parts of agriculture that are damaging, that is, the operation that is damaging? I believe that we must support agriculture as a whole. But what about those parts of agriculture that go beyond our environment and health, should we also support those parts? That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135110	Well, I assume that the questioner refers to this here about the feed phosphate levy in the legislative proposal, and there I have answered that, in my view, we currently have a double regulation in which, on the one hand, we have regulated the quantity to be used by setting a limit and, on the other hand, we have a tax. This is unnecessary double regulation and, in fact, just a cost to agriculture. In fact, it is regulated through another law. So that is why I am saying that in my world it is sensible to have this tax removed so that we can relieve the burden on agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135148	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135154	Thank you. I would also like to thank those parties who have welcomed the draft law, and also those who have welcomed parts of the legislative proposal, even if it is not necessarily the case that we can vote in favour of the whole legislative proposal. You can become wiser as a minister and as a government in a committee procedure, and Parliament can also do so from first reading to third reading. And I would like to urge the Social Democratic Party to read the bill once again. In relation to the aviation registration fee, it is a very, very small tax that is removed here to create equal competition between Denmark and some of the other Nordic countries. It is not a tax relief aimed at the richest. And, in relation to the feed phosphate levy, it is a tax on an agricultural sector where parts of agriculture, those who produce livestock, are very much in need, in some cases bankrupt, and this may be a helping hand that will secure jobs, even outside the major cities. And the Social Democratic Party certainly says that it is concerned with ensuring a better balance for Denmark, but when it comes to the specific policy, it sometimes pinches, just as the support for the bill is difficult here. But I hope that will be reconsidered for the second and third readings. This is a very good proposal, and it is, not least because it is part of the 2019 financial law agreement that the government has concluded with the Danish People's Party, and they have of course also put their fingerprints on this bill. It is no secret that it is a priority for me as tax minister to clean up our often old taxes, to simplify our tax system, both for companies and for tax administration. And that's why you have to see this bill in the context of the two tax simplification packages that we adopted in December 2017 and December 2018, i.e. last year and last year, which make a big contribution to this cleaning up of our failed charging system. However, there is still room for further abolitions, further reductions and, to such an extent, further simplifications of a wide range of charges. And there we take a step in the right direction with this bill that makes it cheaper to be a Dane and easier to operate in Denmark and simplify our charging system. The rapporteurs have already mentioned this, but I would like to say that the consequences of the elements in it are that we reduce cross-border trade and secure Danish jobs. Firstly, we are reducing the tax on beer and wine, and there is a cross-border effect on that. And to be honest, I do not think, even in the light of the debate that has taken place here, that a health impact can be traced in relation to whether the charges were at the level they were at before the bill was adopted or what they end up at. After all, the changes are not that great. It's possible that you can figure it out in a spreadsheet, but when it hits reality, it's not this that moves healthwise in one direction or another. Some connection is there, but these changes are, after all, limited. Secondly, we are proposing to abolish the registration tax on aircraft, as I mentioned, in order to ensure equal competition in that market too, not to take account of those who are particularly wealthier than others. Thirdly, there is the feed phosphate tax, which there has also been a little discussion about the environmental effects of. And this is a good example of how this has been the case in our tax legislation for many years and certainly also under changing governments, and I cannot keep my own government and my own party free. Yes, now it is not my government, but the Prime Minister's government, but the government of which I am a part, and my own party, the Left, for having thought: we can conduct effective environmental policy, social policy, distribution policy through our tax system. And there we see that in a number of areas we overestimate the effects of it. Of course, there is a link between environmental policy and health policy through our tax system, but there are not always the effects that can be calculated technically. And it is my clear conviction that, although it cannot be completely ruled out that it would have some environmental consequences, I think it would be difficult to link specific environmental consequences to this bill, among other things. because, as several rapporteurs have said, there is also something parallel EU regulation that regulates the discharge of phosphorus into our groundwater, into our drinking water and in our nature. However, the proposal is of course a helping hand, especially to farmers with animal production, who are those who are particularly affected by the drought, in order to strengthen their competitiveness in relation to the rest of the world. Fourthly, we are financing a number of the tax reductions here by increasing the residual tax rate on corporation tax by a flat-rate surcharge of 2%. And that means there is an incentive to pay the right tax. If you don't, you have to pay some interest, just like if you borrowed money from the bank. There is still a significant advantage in borrowing money from the tax administration, in relation to what you have to pay in interest rates, and what many companies meet with on the private market in relation to liquidity loans and other things. So this is a perfectly reasonable cofinancing of these tax reductions. So thank you for the discussion here in Parliament and for the support that has been and, as far as I can count myself to it, there is at least a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135743	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135747	Thank you for that and thank you for the concern on the part of the tax minister about whether social democracy is now in the right place. I would say that we normally think carefully before we go to the Assembly, and we have done so in this case too. It is because there is something for us in relation to the environment, and there is also something for distribution policy that makes us think that it does not hit where it should. That is why I would like to ask the tax minister what I proposed in my rapporteur's speech, namely that we would like to have the bill split so that it is not a great burden on many different proposals, but that we really have the opportunity to express our political views on the various parts, even when we disagree slightly with the government. Is the Minister in favour of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135830	That's two ways to go about it. I now think that my suggestion that the Socialists choose to support the proposal, although there is something they are dissatisfied with, is better than what Mrs Lea Wermelin has to say, but that is probably because we see things from two different sides of the coin. It is, of course, financial law, and normally we do not share such a bill that translates part of the Finance Act, but it could be brought up in the Tax Committee, and then I will leave it to the rapporteurs of the government parties and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to find out if you want to split up the bill. I am generally positive as a minister, but normally we do not share a proposal that is part of the Finance Act. Then I would like to say that in the report there is an opportunity to express what is meant by it. Mrs Lea Wermelin knows this very well as chairman of the Committee on Taxation, so it is not to be instructive in this way, but one can vote in favour and then say that we are a little critical of these elements. Overall, I think it is a fabulous good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135935	Mrs. Lea Wermelin, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207135936	You can also vote against and then write in the report what you are for, but somehow it gives a more real picture of where the parties stand, if you have the opportunity to vote a little more purely for the things you are for and to vote against the things you are against. But we have to do that in committee. Finally, I would just like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that the Minister's own Committee on Cleaning did not actually recommend removing this feed phosphate tax and precisely on the grounds that this would lead to increased emissions of phosphorus to the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140008	Since then, we have become wiser. To be honest, I cannot really remember whether that was the conclusion or whether that was the argument that the tax was not looked at in the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna read that out. But I can say that what has happened since then is that we have become aware of these new EU rules that are coming and that regulate development; so as an alternative to the regulation or environmental limitation that a tax wants, there will be EU regulation instead, and I think that will actually serve as a better safeguard. Then it's true that there's a little time going on, that's right, but it's coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140049	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140051	I was just pointing my ears when the Minister of Taxation was talking about how derived effects are from taxes and other things, i.e. that sometimes you overestimate the effects that are and that it can cause some problems. This is an issue that we have been relatively concerned with in the Enhedslisten in connection with the Ministry of Finance's calculations of, for example. labour supply, but also with regard to the assumptions made by the Ministry of Taxation regarding the social impact of various tax changes. This was something we discussed a great deal about, for example. The conversion of the PSO to bottom tax payments. However, if the Minister of Taxation really believes that there are assumptions that may be more on paper than in reality, should it not have more drastic consequences than just saying that we should probably not use taxes anymore? Should we not try to make reasonable assumptions? Let me stop there in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140151	You can count on many things, and the way the Treasurer's skilled economists calculate the same thing in the Ministry of Finance is the best possible, but it is still a calculation and an assessment. It comes with some uncertainty. And that's what the bill says and the committee answers say. It is just as if we politicians choose to attach a great deal to the result that is two lines below and do not attach any importance to the fact that it is with considerable uncertainty. I am one of those who say that this is being pointed out. So it is not a criticism of those who are raining, but a criticism that we politicians sometimes have to be careful to say that this is exactly how the reality is being translated. After all, we spend a long time discussing calculation methods and one and the other. For me, it should be a professional discussion where you find out how to calculate in the right way. It should also be a professional discussion in which the trade economists in the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Finance are challenged by the AE-Council, the CEPOS and others, and where research is carried out. And then you count in the right way. And then we politicians must be careful not to say that what has been assessed with considerable uncertainty means that 1:1 is translated into reality, because it rarely happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140303	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140310	Thank you very much. Yeah, it would be nice if you could say it was just calculations. But when, for example, we get there. If you talk about registration fees, that's the difference between Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has to pay 800 million. kr. to reduce the tax or whether he has to pay 250 million. kr. to lower the tax. So this isn't just a discussion. After all, it is a question of what things cost when we are in negotiations. If it turns out that there are not the effects of a given tax, then it is money that is then missing in the box because there have been assumptions about a change in behaviour as a result of the tax relief. In the same way, it was about the PRS reduction. It was then sent out from the Ministry of Taxation or it was from the Ministry of Finance some family type calculations that showed how, for example. a folk pensionist couple would be affected by this, i.e. assuming this downturn and overturning in prices and wages. So there was a prospect for the citizens. And if those changes do not happen, then they have actually, in fact, been lying to the citizens, a little harshly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140408	But there are these dynamic effects. I think everyone agrees on that. The discussion between the Industrial Council of the Workers' Movement and the trade economists of the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Taxation is about whether these are the right effects we have put into practice. It is well documented, and there are plenty of empiri for the effect of lowering taxes, i.e. that there are dynamic effects of it. Then there are some who say that there is much more effect than what the Ministry of Finance has, and there are some who say that there is less. I would just like to say that I would warn against such a political decision being taken. One must say that one must lie somewhere in the middle of the knowledge one has, and then one must choose politically whether to make decisions on that basis. I think it's wise to do that. But that does not mean, as a politician, that it says that it is with considerable uncertainty or other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140454	Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140457	Thank you. As I said earlier, I agree that we can give a helping hand to agriculture, which is facing great challenges and which is an important industry for our society. Then, when you give a helping hand, you could discuss where the hand grabs. Here you help a place where you lower some taxes on something that actually has some costs for society. After all, this feed phosphate levy is not just a regulatory issue; it is also a question of animal production having some side effects, it might be said, in terms of costs for our society, which we as a society have to deal with. Is there not something called the 'polluter pays' principle, in which companies also have to take responsibility, in relation to how they run the business? So is this the right way to regulate?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140555	Well, that is a principle, and if we followed it, we should significantly lower our registration fee, because much more money comes into the registration fee and on petrol and diesel tax than the negative environmental effects. Where the point lies in relation to the taxation of agriculture, I cannot say, but if you choose to stand on such a principle, I think you should do it all the way through. When I am able to justify giving agriculture this tax reduction, it is as paragraph 1 because, after all, it is not so much money in view of the size of the sector, and as paragraph 2, because the way we produce in Denmark is typically far better in terms of the environment and climate than the production taking place in other countries. And then it's true that in a world where people didn't eat meat, it might have an effect, but that's what people do, and you probably come because more citizens in this world are going to eat more meat. And then I stand on the view that it is best that we produce meat where farmers have respect for the environment and you do what you can to reduce the climate impact and that is what Danish agriculture does.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140706	Sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140709	I just think that, regardless of the amount of money, I can understand that, and I am also in favour of this simplification of rules, which, fortunately, the Minister also has as his agenda a situation, and this also highlights the Prime Minister in his opening speech in the Danish Parliament, where the environment is much overshadowing so much else, i.e. where we have so much problems with the environment and the consequences of these problems, that this is something that we must do something about. And when you see more of these proposals here, that is, proposals that may well be a little symbolic, but still point in a different direction, then I just find it hard to understand the connection between what you say and what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140750	However, the government is doing a number of other things for the environment; it is doing our skilled Minister for the Environment and Food, and it is doing the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate that we are placing huge amounts of tax dollars in the production of renewable energy, in set-aside of forest areas and a large number of things that aim to compensate for CO2 and I believe that there are more efficient tools than the feed phosphate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140826	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140845	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207140856	Thank you. As an islander, I would like to begin by welcoming a number of elements of the bill here. There is a continuation of the increased transport allowance for peripheral municipalities and an extension to the Danish small islands. There is also an introduction of an island allowance of just over DKK 200. per accommodation for commuters living on non-bridged islands, and then there is a standard deduction for commuters on the Fjord connection Frederikssund. I am very pleased that commuters around the country can now look forward to continuing to ensure an increased commuter allowance for those who hold on to living in our rural areas and in our islands despite a longer distance from the workplace. It is very important to ensure viable communities and islands that it is actually possible to commute at no high economic cost, and it is also of great importance for migration. When we last had government power, we also helped to extend the scheme to nine more municipalities, and now the small islands also benefit from the increased transport allowances. This also applies to the introduction of an island allowance of just over DKK 200. per accommodation for commuters living on non-bridged islands. Many commuters have so far been in a squeeze because they cannot commute back and forth on a daily basis, but maybe instead a few times a week, and therefore have to have an alternative accommodation close to their workplace. But there they have not been covered by the rules on deductions for additional expenditure on accommodation according to the rules on travel allowances. So this is an important improvement, and many commuter groups and the Association of Danish Small Islands have also been active and worked very hard to ensure these better conditions for commuters on the islands. I think many of our parties have met with them and agreed that we should look into how we could find a solution that benefits the commuters. We in the Social Democratic Party are pleased that this has been achieved, and we warmly support this. It is important that you can live and live in all parts of the country and that conditions in rural and peripheral municipalities and islands are high on the political agenda. We must have a strong and also stronger regional policy in Denmark and a fight with geographical inequality, where we can see that the differences are growing, unfortunately also on the basis of the policy of this government. In addition, AE has also highlighted that people in jobs are moving towards the larger cities, while people without jobs are moving the other way. But with these commuter suggestions, we can move in the opposite direction. Unfortunately, there is also another element in the draft law, and I am really surprised that it has been put in here, namely a reduction in the base tax by 0.03 percentage points. In the spring financial agreement with KL on the local economy for this year, the government placed this pool for tax reductions of 250 million. kr., but the municipal tax has increased overall. It is probably also because welfare budgets can be difficult to get together in the municipalities, where more children and more elderly people are coming, but the money does not come with the government. But it is a bit of a reverse logic that the municipalities as a whole have not been able to reduce the tax that the government has wanted, and the government on the backside will still lower it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. We see no reason for this maneuver at a time when there is pressure on welfare. We believe, on the other hand, that investments are needed in our common welfare, so we are against that part, and we therefore want the legislative proposal to be split up so that the two very different parts can be dealt with separately. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141233	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141241	Thank you. Like the previous bill, this is an execution of parts of the Finance Act. This bill is then about creating increased mobility and is focused on creating a Denmark in better balance and, more specifically, creating an incentive for settlement throughout the country. Here one of the initiatives is, of course, to continue and persevere with this high transport allowance for peripheral municipalities, which is quite positive. It also gives a signal that it is not something we do temporarily, because creating a Denmark in balance is something that is a long and cool move. It takes many years to reverse such a trend. That is why we are very pleased that we are now getting it done permanently, but also that this increased transport allowance will be extended to ten additional islands, so that more will be covered by it. It is also quite positive with the new island allowance of DKK 200. per accommodation for people who live on a non-bridged island and that there is a standard allowance for passage on the Fjord connection Frederikssund. As the previous rapporteur mentioned, there is also an additional element in the reduction of the base tax, which I have the impression is more of a standard procedure, in making these agreements with the KL that they must raise or lower taxes in order to regulate it. If someone raises it more than you expect, or lowers it more than you expect, then you adjust the bottom tax accordingly, so that it goes up crowns and ear-wise. So it's not really something we're typically talking about as Parliament, because it's something that's going on between the KL and the government. But we also support that part, even though it is not an agreement. But these are all good moves that are part of this bill. I would also like to make some general observations, because it is very good that we are making these measures which help to create a better balance for Denmark, and it is good to have higher deductions so that you can commute to work from these municipalities. But one of the criteria for being on the list is that you have an occupational income per person. population under 90%. of the national average of the municipalities. At the same time as we are doing this, we see that there will be huge development plans for the capital, where massive investment will have to be made in infrastructure and new islands and other things. Try to think that as Parliament we actually chose to set up the ambition and said: What if we made some major development plans for the 25 municipalities? So, what if you started looking at whether there should be any business development in Struer, in Svendborg or in Vordingborg, which are some of these municipalities? It could really be something that could be battling, so you could try to get them out of the development where people have to commute to get a job, but so they could actually get a job in their vicinity where they live. So it's great that we've taken these initiatives to create a better balance for Denmark, but I would also like us to do something else instead of having development plans for the capital alone. I am under the capital that there is a development here, but there is a lot going on and there is a positive development. Where there is not so much positive development is in the 25 municipalities, which we give an extra deduction. But it could be nice to focus more on perhaps developing some infrastructure in those areas and perhaps ensuring that more training places were available so that young people would not have to move away to read. They often do not come back because we know that companies typically settle where they can get the trained workforce. So you could do a lot of things to support it further beyond that with the transport allowance, which is positive. We are a little missing from the fact that the Danish Parliament has taken more initiatives to support these municipalities where there is a low average income from employment. But the Danish People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141601	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141605	That is because, in fact, I think it is extremely wise what the rapporteur says about the fact that instead of placing a lot of money in the areas that already have, we must have a stronger regional policy. Some of what could be done, rather than by the Danish People's Party, to support this bottom tax relief, which we spend 250 million. kr. A year on, it was to say that we could spend that money on something else. The rapporteur could also choose to say: OK, we have actually become wiser. There might even be a majority here who could use the money in a different way. Would the rapporteur be interested in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141645	We're definitely gonna help find money for this. But we could also choose not to do what the Social Democrats themselves have agreed to, namely to spend 180 million. kr. to create business funds in other EU countries, i.e. do not support Danish business, but actually support moving Danish companies out of the country to become a business fund in another country. This certainly does not benefit anything in Denmark, and certainly not regional development. So you could also, for example. Take that money and pool it for this. However, we fully agree that we need to focus not only on the development that is taking place in the growth centres around the big cities, where things are already going very well, but also on these 25 municipalities, where there is a very low income, so that we ensure that there are better framework conditions, so that we may be able to expand or build to a greater extent. There are, for example: Pretty tough rules. If you are 300 m from water or 300 m from forest, or if there is just some beautiful nature, then there are some huge restrictions on being able to do some business development, whereas you see that there are no restrictions in the metropolitan area. There you can actually make artificial islands. So there is some distortion of the country that we need to look at more generally, among other things. with regard to the framework conditions. It could also be that we had to look at financial packages or aid packages of some kind. But in general it just seems a little strange that one place you can make artificial islands, and the other place you can't put a house up 300 meters from a forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141754	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141755	I think it takes a lot of things. I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that we need a stronger regional policy. That is where I think it is a little unfortunate that the government is taking a step in the right direction with this, but in a number of other areas it has taken steps in the wrong direction and in fact has tried very purposefully to benefit those areas of Denmark which have the most in advance. There, together with the Danish People's Party, it has succeeded in preventing top tax reliefs, higher retirement age and some of the other things that have been proposed and which will hit these outermost regions hard. But I can only wonder where the Danish People's Party thinks the government is doing well in terms of benefiting some of these areas of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141841	In fact, I think we have taken a number of steps in this parliamentary term, but I would also just like to appeal for us to take more long-term steps, in other words where we are not looking at the short-term. I think it is positive that we have relocated state jobs and that there has been a focus on moving some educational institutions out, but to a very small extent. I think we should perhaps take a greater fight and ensure that people could actually take an education in several different places in the country. The area I come from is Denmark's largest dairy municipality, but in order to study for dairy, you have to go to, for example. Odense. Why can one not be trained for dairy in West Jutland when that is where the dairies are largely located? It could be that it had to be split up so you could be it in both places. However, I think that one might benefit from a much broader focus and perhaps not just on the same tax policy that we are discussing today, because in these 25 peripheral municipalities in particular there is a need to make some additional efforts to get business development going.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207141939	Thank you for the floor. The Left wants a Denmark in balance, which is why the Left has carried out a whole series of different actions, which this should be seen as building on. As other rapporteurs have said, we want to increase the transport allowance here. We want to ensure that you can live on the Danish islands and in the outermost municipalities while working on the mainland. It contributes to the growth and balance of these areas too, and this is important for the Left. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who said earlier that there are other means too, and that is why we have relaxed the law on plans. Yes, at that time it was a Left Government that had proposed something even more ambitious, so there is no doubt that the Left would have liked to see even greater relaxations in relation to the Planning Act, so that it would have been possible to create even more growth in the outermost regions. So there I am in line with the fact that better growth opportunities are also being created. However, we have already introduced a liberalisation of the law on plans, which means that we can operate more in rural areas at this stage. In addition, we have relocated state jobs and we have created a comprehensive food and agricultural package that has made the food and agricultural industry better equipped. Here we are also proposing a relaxation of the rules on deductions for lodging, which will also strengthen growth, because, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, it will be possible to have work on the mainland while living on a non-bridged island. The islands with which we are currently expanding the scheme are Årø, Bogø, Egholm, Endelave, Jarnø, Mandø, Nekselø, Orø, Sejrø and Tunø, which means that all 27 non-bridged islands in the Association of Danish Small Islands are now covered by the scheme. We think this is very positive and it can increase the chances of getting a job when living on an island and thus increasing growth. It will also help to achieve the EU 2020 goals of smart and sustainable and inclusive growth. It is part of the Finance Act and we think it is very good that we can create some more balance in Denmark. It is high time, because there was a problem with the former Red Government, so we are of course pleased that we can achieve a little more balance here. I can therefore say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207142208	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207142218	Thank you. As other rapporteurs have said, this proposal contains some very positive elements and progress in relation to the people in our country who live on a number of our small islands. Those parts of the proposal are absolutely something that we in the Enhedslisten can support... that is something we have been concerned about. I must then confess that I am not normally the rural or tax rapporteur, but I know that our rapporteur in this area has been concerned about this for many years. This concerns, on the one hand, the permanentisation and continuation of the increased transport allowance for the outermost municipalities and, on the other hand, the extension of the scheme to the ten small islands which are not currently covered. It will certainly help to secure and maintain settlements on the islands or, at least, to curb the migration that we see from some of the islands. As a general rule, we have a scepticism about encouraging people to go a long way to their work. We would actually rather, as others have pointed out, we had more jobs and training places on the ground, including in the outermost regions, so that we did not have to commute so far. But we also recognise that this is not the development we are seeing, and it is hardly just around the corner. Therefore, we are also positive about the new deduction for overnight accommodation applicable to commuters with accommodation on the islands. Learned from the experience with the tax authorities, we may well be concerned that the Tax Authority has sufficient resources to ensure the necessary control of the new scheme • perhaps the Minister could say something about that, or we can take it in the committee procedure. The bill also introduces a deduction for people crossing the new fjord connection at Frederikssund, Crown Princess Mary's Bro, when it happens in connection with the trip to and from work. As a starting point in the Enhedslisten, we are not opposed to this scheme, which equates commuters on the fjord connection with commuters on other bridges, i.e. the Storebælt link and the Øresund connection, but it is no secret that we were opposed to the construction of the bridge link and, at the same time, criticised the fact that it should be financed as the only user in the country. In this context, it was perhaps interesting to have an answer to the socio-economic calculation of the project, also during the course of the treatment, after the introduction of this deduction. At the same time, the Enhedslisten is critical of the fact that the public transport journey is not entitled to the same deduction to cross Crown Princess Mary's Bridge as far as we can see at least as the one that will apply to cars. Of course, people who use the bus over the bridge to get to and from work must have the same deductions as those who use the car. The argument that no public transport is expected on the bridge and that, moreover, the deduction would be modest is strange in our optics. You cannot know what public transport will look like in North Zealand in the coming years. At any rate, it is not something that requires the spread of public transport to be placed at a competitive disadvantage in the face of private carism. That is why we also come from the Enhedslisten to table amendments to the law to include public transport and we hope that there will be support for such an amendment. As far as the proposal to lower the base tax is concerned, we are sceptical because the exercise of this reduction is to prevent the municipalities from apparently raising taxes in the budgets. Our position is that the municipalities should have the freedom to determine the tax themselves and that state interference is a bad idea. There is also the problem that the basis for the base tax is wider, and that, compared with these increases at local level, is likely to mean a less social balance, i.e. an increase in economic inequality. Therefore, we would also like to ask the Minister to indicate the distribution effect of the proposed reduction in the base tax, measured on income decibels and on the Gini coefficient, and to compare this with a corresponding reduction in the municipal tax, measured in the same way. So again we are faced with a legislative proposal which deals essentially with issues which have nothing to do with each other. There is no link between the bill's part concerning the transport allowance and the island allowance and then the part which includes the reduction of the base tax. That is why we, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, are also asking for the proposal to be divided into two parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207142659	Thank you to the rapporteur for that. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207142708	That's right. Thank you for that, President. Several of the previous rapporteurs have, of course, examined the elements of this fine bill. It is, of course, about the increased transport allowance, which is being made permanent, and about the extension of the system of 10 islands; that we introduce a deduction for the user tax for crossing the bridge at Frederikssund; and finally that we lower the base tax, and that is very good. Overall, this is a proposal that puts Denmark in a better balance, and it is also because of the lowering of the base tax that we get a better balance between yours and mine, how much the state takes of people's money, and how much money people have for themselves. So we wholeheartedly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207142804	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207142822	Thank you for that, President. As previous rapporteurs have also said, this draft law contributes to making it possible to create the good life, no matter where you live in the country. In 2016, we also helped to ensure that the partial implementation of the road principle, namely that a mile on land should be the same as a mile on water, was anchored in decisions involving completely locality on each of the small islands. This bill will help us, hopefully, to reverse the trend of relocation and the decline in population. We have presented the programme ourselves • A coherent Denmark • with 38 proposals to strengthen the good relationship between country and city, among other things. to free the workplace from time and place so that we do not discriminate geographically. The Danish People's Party said that there is more we can do than transport ourselves to and from the areas; it is also a question of whether we can invest in these areas and not only invest in the large areas around the cities where there is already much growth. So we think it is a good point, as the Danish People's Party puts it here, that it could be wonderful to develop the 25 municipalities appointed, and not only make it possible to transport themselves to and from these municipalities, and it could, among other things, be. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action in this area. Our proposal for remote jobs might make it easier not only to work in Copenhagen but also to work more from home from a home office. The draft law, on the one hand, ensures better coherence and balance between the major cities and the outermost municipalities and between the mainland and the small islands. Then, as has also been pointed out by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, there is this about the municipal tax, and there I share the same sceptical concern, so I would also like to look forward to what comes out of the requests made by the Enhedslisten. There is also the request from the Social Democratic Party to divide up the proposal. In any case, we are more sceptical about the latter part of the municipal tax, but we are just a little hesitant about assessing whether we can also vote for it until we have heard what comes out of the committee's proceedings. So I'm gonna go with that. Overall, we are positive about it, but like the Social Democracy and Enhedslisten, we're gonna take a look at this town tax thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207143051	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207143058	Thank you. This proposal, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, is yet another implementation of our Financial Law Agreement, and it aims to make the increased transport allowance permanent for citizens living in islands or outlying municipalities, so that it is better to live in those areas while at the same time having work that is far away. In the Conservative People's Party we generally want lower taxes on labour. The Danes must be allowed to keep to themselves some more of the money they have earned, and we put a tax plan on that just before Christmas, in which we among other things. • to reduce the employment allowance so that people in the lower part of the income scale benefit more from going to work. We think that is actually fair. A deduction for citizens living in peripheral areas is also a relief of tax at work. That is a positive step, and it is a small step in the right direction. At the same time, we in the Conservative People's Party take the view that it should be attractive to live all over the country, and with this deduction it will make it more attractive to live on our beautiful islands or in our rural areas, even if you have to commute far to work. That is why, of course, we can support that part of the bill. Then there is also the second part, which is about giving tax credits to those who have to pass the new bridge at Frederikssund. This helps to align users of the upcoming Frederikssund Bridge with users of other payment bridges. We can support that too. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207143244	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207143255	We are then moving on after two motions for resolutions, and now we come to the second, and also the last, tax bill, not in this assembly of parliaments, but on this parliamentary day and in the debates in this Chamber. Again, thank you for the positive reception from the majority of parties and also for the fact that not everyone can support the recognition of the elements of some of what lies here in the bill. As Minister for Taxation, I am pleased that it is once again possible to put forward a bill which provides tax relief to ordinary Danes, and that at the same time it was possible to accommodate the outermost municipalities and those who live there, including the Danish islands, and that does not make the pleasure less small islands, because Funen is also an island, and it is not being taken into account, but some of the islands around it. Residents working in our outlying areas are a prerequisite for a Denmark in balance. The government wants to strengthen development in the outermost municipalities, in the sparsely populated areas, and one way of doing so is to introduce incentives for the working population, for example. working far away from their residence, opting to settle in an outer municipality, and there is an economic incentive for that. That is why I am pleased that the Danish People's Party, as part of the 2019 Finance Act, has agreed tax relief that is particularly targeted people who have a long way to go to work because they live in the larger cities. What will come of it? This will strengthen mobility in the outermost municipalities and islands when we make the increased transport allowance permanent and extend the scheme of ten Danish small islands. I am also very pleased about this as a tax minister, because it was one of the things my party promised that we would try to implement in a future parliamentary term, namely to make the transport allowance permanent, so now we can wing off the electoral promise when the Folketing has adopted the bill. I must hurry to say that I also believe that there are other parties that have had it as a wish. It is not something on which my party, the Left, has a patent. I consider it quite natural and reasonable, as a number of tax rapporteurs also do, that the deduction option that applies if you drive over Storebælt and Øresund also applies when you drive over other payment bridges. There will be one, Crown Princess Mary's Bro in Frederikssund, and there will certainly be others, and it must be fair to say that if you have to pay to drive over Storebælt and have deducted it, you also have to be deducted to run over the other bridges where there is co-financing via user charges. It's only fair. That is why I also expect the draft law on this part to be developed quietly as payment connections may arise. Last but not least, we are proposing a reduction in the base tax to compensate citizens for the increase in municipal tax. Following on from what we have done in the past, it is an expression that the government is protecting the tax freeze. I mean, these bottom tax reductions are all gonna benefit. So I would like to thank you for the discussion that has taken place in Parliament and I look forward to a good and constructive committee. Well, then I can tell Mr. Knox... Pelle Dragsted, who asked about the control issue, that the question of transport is in fact one of the areas where the tax administration has been monitoring. We have done so for a number of reasons, including: because it turned out that it was something how many people cheated is a big word, although it certainly takes place • got the wrong stuff typed into their tax returns. They got the wrong idea if you want to. That is why there is control of the area, also quite a lot of control in relation to other areas, and there are such digital stops, so that if you enter certain items, you are automatically pulled out for control. Now, I'm not gonna stand here and tell you what the bricks are, but if mr. Pelle Dragsted would like to know, we can of course inform the Tax Committee in confidence. But there are such algorithms or boundaries downstairs, so if you type in different things, you automatically go out to control. This is an effective way of doing control, so I am not so worried that there are some who should cheat or cheat to a greater extent than is the case with the transport allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207143729	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207143742	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207143803	Thank you. The draft law we are considering today is, I think, simply the most extensive in the time I have been allowed to be rapporteur on food and agriculture, namely no less than 239 pages on manure. One must certainly be made of a very special fabric to be attracted to such reading material when it lies at the corner of the desktop. There it has not been very long, it can be said, because unfortunately we did not have the legislative proposal until the end of last week, which means that there has been an unreasonable amount of time to get involved in the legislative proposal. There has also been a technical review which was only yesterday. And, of course, it all plays a part in the assessment of the case. I'll try to give you as sober an approach to what I can. This is a new law, a main law on manure regulation, which simply brings all legislation on agricultural land into one law instead of several. It is mostly a continuation of existing legislation, as I can translate it, but there are also some new elements which primarily serve the purpose of reducing the negative environmental consequences of the agricultural package. The proposal will make it easier to sanction farmers if they do not implement the environmental action they are actually engaging in. It has simply been too easy to get around until now, and of course that cannot be done. That is why it is also proposed that farmers can now be faced with economic sanctions. In addition, just to highlight some of the parts of the proposal that we have been highlighted as new contains the amended rules for inclusion in the Register of Fertilizer Accounts. Fertiliser standards can be set for a 3-year period instead of an annual period. It is slightly unclear what constraints are in relation to flexibility that may also be necessary in certain contexts. Then there are flexible deadlines for the establishment of the catch crops • that sounds immediately interesting. The reduction in nitrogen quotas is made an active alternative to the establishment of compulsory crops and livestock crops. There is a possibility of trade in catch crops being restricted, so it will be within a coastal water catchment area that makes sense immediately. And that's how there are some different steps down through the bill. This is, of course, a legislative proposal which has a great deal to do with the agricultural package. That is why we have been critically constructive, I think we will call it "but at least critical of some of the manoeuvres that are being made in the legislative proposal. We are very concerned about whether there are hidden relaxations in some of the exercises that I think I will allow myself to call desk exercises at this stage in order to be able to exchange some after-crop requirements for a quota reduction, even if you may not even use the full quota today. And there are some different things that we need to dive into. There is therefore today just an indication on our part that we are going to have a number of questions for the legislative proposal. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, which unfortunately cannot attend right now, I should just like to say that we will come back with our final position on the legislative proposal at a later stage in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144158	Mr President, there is a brief comment in the first place. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144202	Thank you. But it is interesting that the final position will come later. When I look at this bill, and it is quite comprehensive, I suppose it can also be imagined that it will solve some problems that we can see in front of us, for example. the requirements for Denmark that we should reduce our nitrogen pollution, that we should reduce these 42,000 tonnes by 2027. I've been looking a little bit for where it's in this bill that it's just being secured, and I haven't been able to find it. This bill is also on many pages; it's quite complex. So I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is something I have overlooked, i.e. whether there is somewhere else in this draft law, where we can, like, ensure that we can reduce our nitrogen pollution by 2,000 tonnes a year so that we get down to this 42,000 tonnes? That must be what has been charged if you really want to change a law: what is it that you have to achieve? I can see that there is a lot here where you re-regulate, and then you put it over another law, and then I can get a little worried, because has it been taken care of? But does the rapporteur see that the major problem is dealt with in the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144313	No, I cannot do that immediately, and it is fair that the Minister too should be allowed to answer that particular question. I think I have the courage to acknowledge on a stand-by basis that there are some measures which make the sanction harder if you do not get the interpretation that you have entered into, etc. Of course, it can contribute something. At the same time, however, as I said in my speech, I am concerned that we should be able to get a hole in the gain by reducing our nitrogen quota, even if we are not even using it to the full, so as to avoid having to have the same after crop requirements. It doesn't have any environmental effect out there, but it gives it on your desk. That's why we're pretty concerned about whether there's any hidden relaxations in this proposal. We are going to go deeper into committee work, I can almost hear it, also with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144411	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144414	Thank you. Full respect for the fact that the rapporteur and his party should be given the opportunity to delve into the various technical details in committee. We can get back to that. My question concerns the overall, targeted environmental regulation. Could we not get the rapporteur's assessment of it, in other words, whether the perspective of what is going on here does not actually play a very good part in some of the discussions that have also taken place in the past? I have also noted that the rapporteur himself pointed out that it would be a good thing if things could be a little broad. So if we now assume that the technical aspects can be clarified during the committee procedure and that we can try to deal with the overall perspective, is there not a good point in this with the targeted regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144459	Yes, there is a good aim in the concept of targeted regulation, provided that there is control of how to set it up. In fact, our exchange here will be a little bit of the story of the hen and the egg again, because yes, the targeted regulation is certainly good, but it does not help anything if the way in which it is executed has some possible pitfalls, some hidden environmental easings. So an effective and targeted regulation that brings us to the goal that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also outlined, and on which I agree, is something on which we must try to reach a broad consensus. But we'd like to be absolutely sure of this bill before we say green or red to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144549	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144552	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a fine speech on the legislative proposal, which is, of course, large, comprehensive and complex. And by the way, I would like to thank the Social Democrats and also the Radical Left, who unfortunately could not be here, for wanting to spend time getting involved in this before just pouring it down the board. I would say I appreciate that very much. So the rapporteur speaks of something such as ghost-like, perhaps almost conspiracy-theory, whether there are hidden reliefs incorporated into the bill and talks about hollow gains etc. Nevertheless, I also hear praise for several of the elements of the draft law. But is there anything the rapporteur can say at the outset that the Social Democratic Party is opposed to in the specific legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144649	Thank you for the rose and the recognition. It's always lovely when Mr. Knox... Carsten Bach takes the floor and starts that way. There's always a "but" coming, but I don't really think that did it here. I just want to start by thanking you for that. I think that what we should help each other to get hold of is, of course, the conversion of quota reductions into lower post-crops pressures, which I think we must pay particular attention to. What's that for real effect? For one thing, what it may give in the European Commission or elsewhere is where you have to convince some of your total nitrogen accounts. However, we are discussing this bill today on the backs of figures from NOVANA, where it has not for the first time, but over a small number of years been increasing. And that is why we also have a real challenge in our aquatic environment, which we must address. So it's one of the main elements that we're going to dive into and get some certainty about. And it is certainly not to be conspiratorial that I see hidden relaxations; it is just because I cannot see with the naked eye whether they are there or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144756	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144758	Thank you. That is fine, and we can then get the drill out of the committee procedure, and that is really fine. The quota production, which the rapporteur refers to, and is a little nervous about, including these so-called hidden reductions, is, after all, one of the relatively few instruments available to the farmer in this context. After all, this is a lot about catch crops. And, as the rapporteur also says, there is a conversion from a post-crop requirement and then a reduction in quotas. But it could also be other instruments, and there are also, it might be said, some incorporated here. Personally, I do not think that there is quite enough. Could it be a concern that the rapporteur also has, i.e. whether there are enough tools in the toolbox for the individual farmer?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144845	Well, now it's not part of the bill, so it's not something that's so full of reading through this dyke work that was on the corner of the desk. But I do think that and I can also remember it from the discussions about the targeted regulation, since we had them that if you can create a flexible system, it is always good. It should just never be at the expense of achieving the objective that the system has to achieve and of delivering the effort that the system has to deliver. And there's one of them. I would also like to say something about the conversion factor, which is trying to hold some dead weight in the current system, for which we also need to ask a little extra questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144922	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207144925	Thank you. I, like the rapporteur, have been a little surprised that this has to go so fast. The only thing I have actually heard is an explanation that this must be put into effect before the growing season starts and it must enter into force on 1 April. Then it is that I can become a little suspicious, because if it were something that did not give a higher or lower load out there, one might as well wait until the next season to get it into force, because it is like a main law that is thought through cross-cutting and arranged in a new way, but as we do get it submitted, neither relaxes nor sharpens any demands. So I am very curious whether the rapporteur has heard other reasons why this is going to be rushed through so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145019	No, I have not heard any reason why things should go so fast, but I can see that it has been a little a way of working for the current government when it comes to agricultural regulation, because then things have to go very, very quickly. I also think, if I should put a little more words on my initial criticism, that it is a little rude to give Parliament so little time to get ready for a first reading. Now I have not studied the timeline for the consultation of the bill, but what I have managed to do is that, after the hearing has come in, there has been a thorough work on the consultation answers and so on before you come here, so others have needed a very long working time with this bill, while here in the Folketing we have a week's time before we have to talk about it, and that is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145108	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145114	It's true that this is really big and complex. I think the bill on these 239 pages is also the biggest I have tried, and there have also been many relevant consultation answers, so there has been enough to look at here. This law is, of course, a new main law, and it provides the basis for the targeted regulation that we decided with the agreement on the food and agriculture package in 2015. The shift from a general regulation, in which all farmers were subject to the same obligations, to a targeted regulation where environmental requirements are only imposed where there is a need, is a necessary paradigm shift if we are to maintain strong food production in Denmark. The draft law empowers the Minister to lay down the effort requirements agreed with the agricultural package, namely that nitrogen emissions should be further reduced in the coming years. At the same time, the law empowers the Minister to set up a subsidy scheme to compensate farmers for the extra effort that many of them have to make as part of the targeted regulation. For the Danish People's Party, it has been crucial that we help our agriculture to achieve the tough reduction targets that we have set in Denmark and that farmers in neighbouring countries are not so challenged by. The draft law also provides for the Minister to be able to set flexible deadlines for the establishment of post-harvest post-harvest crops to counteract nitrogen emissions from the fields. Thus we can say goodbye to the current deadline of 20 August, so that the farmer can sow the catch crops when the weather allows, and not when square rules require it. I am very pleased about that. As a self-employed person, I have never doubted that we in Denmark have a lot of rules and requirements for our companies, but after I came in here and became an agricultural rapporteur, I have nevertheless been surprised at what tyranny of date requirements Danish farmers are subject to. It's crazy. Some of the dates make sense, some dates come from the EU, but most of them are Danish requirements. Many of them I think come because we are not so good at putting the citizen and the company before the system. Too many dates and requirements are set with emphasis on the fact that the administration must be able to manage and control effectively and with less emphasis on the citizen or the company who has to live with it. I also think, unfortunately, when I read this bill, that consideration of the system is crucial. There are several examples, but I'll just take a few, because this is a huge bill. When we discuss these new flexible deadlines for sowing post-harvest crops, agriculture has called for flexibility to be given at field level, i.e. that the farmer should report to the authorities, when he or she has planted the land after-crops, so that he or she is not penalised by quota traits on all fields, but only on one field, that is, the field in which he is sown after 20 August. You don't want to promise that, but you say it is expected to be met. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the farmer must report, as something new and for the sake of control, exactly which fields he or she plans to put on the catch crops. It is a little difficult to understand why it is unproblematic to ask the farmer to register where he has catch crops at field level when it is for the sake of control, while it is problematic when the system has to handle the recording of the sowing time at field level when it is to the farmer's advantage. So it seems a little like it's the system before the farmer. When it comes to the trade in catch crops, the bill envisages that it should not be allowed to trade in catch crops across water catchment areas in the future, and it makes sense, in fact, when we now target regulation, to set the requirement for deployment in a water catchment area according to what the environment in the corresponding water catchment area requires. But it also makes sense to keep the opportunity to act within the water catchment area. Trading within water catchment countries will make it easier for agriculture to meet the requirements, as some farmers have room for more after-crops than others. Why do we only want to look at the possibility of not completely eliminating the possibility of trade? as stated in the consultation note. The possibility of trade should not be investigated, it should only be decided, because it will make life easier for the farmer. Now let's put the farmer before the system. With these somewhat critical remarks about the need to put our citizens and companies ahead of the system, the Danish People's Party can support this proposal and we look forward to further work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145628	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145631	After all, there is part of the legislative proposal here which is about postponing efforts to reduce nitrogen pollution from agriculture. And the rapporteur insists that we should also help agriculture, but we are therefore in a situation where, if we postpone the task of reducing nitrogen pollution, the task will be greater in the years to come. For there is the goal of reducing nitrogen pollution from Denmark to 42,000 tonnes in 2027. This bill suggests that you don't have to do anything serious until after 2021, and then you'll have six years to get down to 42,000 tonnes. So we are up to something here, which is a huge task for agriculture, so we have to solve in a very short space of time Can't the rapporteur see that it is a problem that we are not really getting started on these nitrogen-reducing measures? Now, we have a huge legislative proposal, which is mostly about moving around where it should be managed, and then you relate to some catch crops.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145737	In other words, the industry is also aware that there is a great deal of work involved in reducing nitrogen emissions, so I am not quite as worried about that as the questioner is. We are on our way there and I believe that we will succeed in achieving it by that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145803	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145805	Now the rapporteur says that we are on our way there. If you look at the figures in the last NOVANA report, there was not a decrease in nitrogen emissions that you would otherwise have expected. That means you're not going there. And now, with this bill, it is proposed that we should not make an effort, as we should have done before 2021, and then we should have a bigger task towards 2027. Does the rapporteur not see that a huge task is postponed by adopting this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145832	It is true that the NOVANA report says that it has not fallen as we had expected, but it has not increased either. So it's at the level of 2015. And that's what the researchers at Aarhus University are counting on, so I'm gonna take it easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145855	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207145904	Thank you. We must continue to be able to operate agriculture in Denmark and, of course, at the same time, we must continue to take good care of our environment. And with targeted regulation, we will continue to take good care of our environment, nature and drinking water, while at the same time giving agriculture some control options with this measure on targeted regulation. It has been an important part of the food and agriculture package to introduce this targeted regulation in order to give priority to environmental action where it is needed. Danish farmers have come a long way in reducing nitrogen emissions since the late 1980s, when the first aquatic environment plans were implemented under the then bourgeois government. It was with the knowledge of the time and knowledge of the area that it was right to do with general regulation at the time. The more we know today, and that is why it is right to move forward with the targeted regulation, which has been debated for some time now. It is against this background that we want to introduce targeted regulation instead of having general rules regardless of local conditions, one might say. At the same time, targeted regulation means that agriculture will have more flexibility in relation to which methods to choose, and it is also the Left's ambition that Denmark should continue to be a good agricultural country with a wide variety of food production. Danish food is in demand over large parts of the world because it is known abroad that quality is in order and that the environment and animal welfare are taken into account in production. The potential is therefore quite large in terms of creating jobs in food production, good jobs that are spread throughout the country. It is obvious that there may be a greater need for environmental action around, for example. some closed fjords than those where there is a greater flow of water. That's why things are obviously different around here. At the same time, there is also a great difference between cultivation conditions and soil conditions around Denmark, and against this background there is a need for targeted regulation rather than maintaining a general and uniform form of regulation. For the Left, it is an important element that there is a high degree of methodological freedom for the individual farmer, among other things. in the form of, as it is called, early sowing as an alternative to catch crops, as well as a flexibility model for catch crops, so that it will be possible to sow after 20 August when needed. We only know from the last few years that because of the weather it has been problematic with such a one, we should call it completely locked date. So it's really good that with this we get open up that we can take into account the practical challenges that can lie in terms of whether it rains a lot or whether it is more drought, as we have seen alternately over the last few years. In the Left, we are pleased that with this bill we are now ensuring, as I said, that we get the targeted regulation in place. It strengthens the possibility of creating more employment in the food industry, while at the same time ensuring that this proposal takes a very good look at our nature, the environment and drinking water in an up-to-date and effective way. The Left therefore supports the bill. Then I should like to say from the Conservative People's Party, which does not have the opportunity to be present, that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150247	Thank you. We have one brief comment to make. It's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150254	Well, it is fine to state that there is some freedom of method and there is a targeted regulation that will solve something, and the rapporteur likes to think that there is a profession that is well and so on, but now that this draft law postpones a nitrogen effort when you do not want to make an effort before 2021, we are faced with having 6 years to reduce nitrogen emissions from 60,000 tonnes to 42,000 tonnes. That's 3,000 tonnes a year. What animal production needs to be reduced in order to respond to this? Can the rapporteur not see that, with what is being proposed here, a problem is put off which means that there must be a huge change in agriculture if we are to reduce by 3 000 tonnes such as the year? If you imagine that you can just keep driving as usual, you'll run into a wall. Does the rapporteur not see that a problem is being posed to agriculture by postponing action?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150358	I am well aware that Enhedslisten is taking every opportunity to try to make an attack. We are fully aware that the Enhedslisten would like to have closed down the kind of agriculture that we know today. After all, these are not the issues raised by the rapporteur here, which this draft law is about. That is the targeted environmental regulation. As far as the other questions raised by the rapporteur are concerned, in relation to how it should be followed up, I think that very nice reduction has already been made by Danish agriculture on emissions since the end of the 1980s to this day, it is true that, for example, there has been a reduction in emissions. A plan for water III will be presented, which will discuss some new issues in relation to some of the issues raised by the rapporteur. We can, of course, discuss this appropriately at that time. I can only say, as rapporteur for the Left, that we do not want to close Danish agriculture as one wants in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150445	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150447	The Enhedslisten will not close Danish agriculture at all. We want to convert it into ecology. If you look at reality, it is true that some emissions have fallen since the 1980s. Now we are in a situation with the last NOVANA report, where it was expected that nitrogen emissions would fall. Well, it's not. Then we have a bill that postpones the task until after 2021, and then you have six years to reduce by 18,000 tonnes of nitrogen from agriculture. That is what the rapporteur is simply ignoring and saying that agriculture is doing well. We are faced with a task that agriculture must help to solve and where we must create the framework conditions for it, and this legislation does not guarantee that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150526	We in the Left also think that ecology is quite fine, and we also support the transformation as the Danish country wants to convert to ecology. It is consumers who decide what to do in the shopping basket and on the plate, and when more and more people also want to buy ecology, that is exactly what farmers have to produce. So there we can just say: just go to it as long as there is sales to it. We also take seriously the challenges that may lie in relation to the NOVANA report. After all, the minister has already made sure that extra effort is now being made to get the drill out of what is up and down on this. I think most people in the Kingdom know that one year it can rain a lot, and the next year it has been really, really dry. There are, of course, some technical calculations in what needs to be taken into account. You can come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150615	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150616	Thank you. Now this bill is a new main law of 239 pages and 58 pages of consultation, which we have had a week's time to deal with. I am a little puzzled by the haste of this matter, and now I am particularly curious about the rapporteur from the Left, because the Left is a government party. The only thing I have been able to intercept is that you want this to come into force before the next agricultural season, and then I think: why is that? Because what I'm also hearing is that this law won't sharpen anything and it won't relax anything. That means that it should not be different for the farmer out there other than some ways of recording things and things like that. Can the rapporteur give a better explanation of why this law should be rushed through when it is so extensive and there really should be no difference out there, or what? Am I missing something?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150718	I don't want this rushed through. But I am glad, also of the alternative, like getting a few dots on the shoulder, where they say: It was unbelievable, however, as busy as you are in the Left. I am glad, then, that I will not say be accused of, but get an indication that we are hurrying, in a clear indication of why it is important to put this in place now. That is what I marked in the rapporteur's speech. The date is 20 August, so farmers know that there is some flexibility in it. After all, we have all been able to keep up with this over the last few years. Last year it was very dry, and it didn't make any sense when the seed couldn't germinate, to say: "You must August, whether it sprouts or not. It is good to get this flexibility in place, so that farmers know: we can sleep safely and calmly at night. Because it is possible to take practical account of how the weather will now unfold in the coming year. In the same way, you can go a year further back where it was just the opposite. That's when it rained so much you couldn't get on the road. So I think it is good that we get this in place quickly so that farmers know what they have to control in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150821	Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150823	Now these things have been running with some exceptions, and you could do that another year. There would be no problem with that. I think it's really serious that we have this haste. In my view, hasslework is cargowork, especially when it comes to something that is a completely new main law for the whole of Denmark, for all farmers in Denmark, and I can see from these 58-page consultation answers that there are a lot of concerns about how this has specifically been prepared. So is the rapporteur not at all concerned about all the concerns that can be seen in the consultations and that this is being rushed through without us really being able to deal with the details?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150904	We have been talking about targeted environmental regulation for years, at least a few years back. I also remember that before the last parliamentary elections, commissions were set up and so on, and there was very broad support and a clear message for us here in the Folketing quite broadly: now get on with it with targeted regulation. So this is by no means new. But that is fair enough, because there are so many sides to it. But the substance is relatively well known and there will be a committee procedure in which everyone has the opportunity to ask questions. So for the time being, I've heard that this is the way it is. So let us get the answers that the alternative also has in committee, and then it will be all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150948	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207150950	It was just the last answer here that made me mark. Because I just want the rapporteur's brief answer as to whether the kind of targeted regulation that the government has implemented is identical to that recommended by the Nature and Agriculture Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151012	You should probably find some places where you can say that this is a little different and that it can be a little different. I'm not gonna be able to say that. I can just say one thing, and that is that, overall and with regard to the principle of having targeted environmental regulation, I can see that there are a great many who have said this very broadly politically, and I also remember a former chairman from the Commission, whom I think the questioner knows very well, who is very much in favour of targeted environmental regulation. So I think we should move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151043	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151049	But there is
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151059	The point is, of course, that there is a commission that has been reported and then we take the lead in it. So it's not like you make legislation and then just slam it all in the copier and run it through and vote on it, and then that case is completely over. It must also be adapted to the ongoing emergence of new technological developments and more knowledge. That is exactly what I marked in the rapporteur's speech. That is why it is good to get it done now, because now we have all the knowledge in the matter that we have now and can move forward. Then, of course, we have to set it up in such a way that we can also use those potentials. It is not enough just to bring back the knowledge that lies 2-3 years ago. That's where we're gonna get it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151128	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151141	The draft law here deals with fertilisers and nutrient reduction measures, which are in the title, and the purpose clause of the bill states: "The law aims to regulate the use of manure by agriculture in order to limit the leaching of nitrogen and so as to protect nature and the environment and to preserve animal and plant life in accordance with human living conditions, taking into account flexible and uniform management across the environment and agriculture. It's a beautiful purpose paragraph. That's fantastic. What a bill you should be able to write about it on 250 pages if you unveiled it all, and then it ends up in a bill that relates to the fertiliser, where the nutrient-reducing measures are not so high. I think it is very beautifully worded. It is not just a question of some people living with the fact that we have an agriculture, no, we have seen a purpose clause here, which says: to protect nature and the environment in respect of people's living conditions and to preserve animal and plant life, taking into account flexible and uniform management across the environment and agriculture. Well, it's a section one that's under obligation. I think it is a very noble purpose and one would think that the law would, like it, ensure that by 2027 we reduce our nitrogen pollution from 60,000 tonnes to 42,000 tonnes and thus meet our obligations under the Water Framework Directive, and one would think that the law would ensure that agriculture's use of fertilisers and nutrients is implemented in such a way that it protects nature and the environment and preserves animal and plant life if one were to live up to the paragraph. Unfortunately, however, the draft law is very much about fertilisers and changes in how manure is to be managed, but it does not address the great challenge we face with regard to the nitrogen load of our nature and our aquatic environment. Unfortunately, the bill does not unfold how, through a number of measures, we could target agriculture and ensure that Denmark's nitrogen pollution could be reduced from 60,000 tonnes to 42,000 tonnes by 2027 at the latest, and this is getting even worse. For the start of solving the task is postponed. So we're about to end up with 3,000 tonnes of nitrogen a year from 2021 to 2027. The legal notes then state on page 13: "As part of the overall management of the nitrogen effort, it was decided to postpone 6,200 tonnes of nitrogen to the 3rd water schedule period. This means that the effort will be pushed forward to after 2021. The exercise is based on the agreement on targeted regulation and in the agricultural package's accounts. I think that is very worrying. So we have adopted an agricultural package which ensures more pigs and more nitrogen emissions and then a plan for targeted regulation of agriculture, a targeted regulation which is then postponed. So, what's it gonna be like to solve it? That is to say, we end up with a way of unfolding the targeted regulation so that, overall, we reduce by 3,000 tonnes of nitrogen per year. After all, some people imagine that with targeted regulation all farmers will be happy. I do not think that will happen if it is the case that you have to implement the law as it is now. In the Enhedslisten we think that ecology is the way forward, including in terms of reducing nitrogen pollution. This can be done by converting to organic farming. This can be improved by the fact that ecologists are working on optimising organic production and reducing CO2 Enhedslisten will convert to ecology, and we will also reduce the agricultural area. We believe that this nitrogen pollution should be taken seriously and that more agricultural land should be converted to nature. We believe that there should be room for more forest. We must promote energy crops. We need to take low bottom areas out of rotation, and that is also a way to reduce its nitrogen emissions. A lot can be done together with agriculture, which can live up to the noble purpose of the bill here to protect nature and the environment and preserve animal and plant life. I think that this draft law gives the Minister relatively much power, and I think that we should try to clarify this in committee if this is appropriate. Then I would like to thank the Minister for not having listened too much to sustainable agriculture and for rejecting most of their objections to this law. As the draft law now stands, we cannot support it and we think it is serious that we do not get started with this law on the big task of reducing our nitrogen pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151656	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151708	Does Enhedslisten's rapporteur recognise that Danish agriculture has so far achieved a significant reduction in emissions since the start of reducing in the 1980s? Does the rapporteur recognise that there has been a huge reduction and that much less is being expanded today, knowing that there are still challenges to be solved, and there we are playing quite according to the regulations that lie, also in relation to the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151728	I recognise that it helped to get lids on manure containers and that nitrogen pollution from agriculture has been significantly reduced. We are then just facing some international commitments, after which we have to reduce from the current 60 000 tonnes to 42 000 tonnes of nitrogen, and I can see from this bill that there is no plan for it. Is there a plan for that in the agricultural package? No, you want to make targeted regulation. Yes, it means that in some farms you dream of being allowed to fertilize more, but that there are also other farms that will fertilize significantly less. There are instruments that reduce nitrogen pollution. This could be done by taking out low-level areas, it could be done by investing in energy forest, or it could be done by making room for more nature, so that agricultural land was taken out of service. Well, there are, in fact, some measures that lie in front of them, which you could simply put into a law and sort of make good cooperation with farmers, then it would roll over, and then you would have a plan for how to live up to the EU's water framework directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151829	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151830	Well, thank you for recognising the facts of reality, namely that so far there has been a significant reduction in emissions since the 1980s. I thought it was good to put it in place. Because sometimes it could sound like nothing had happened. Thank you. Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also recognise that in Denmark we are actually the most advanced in the shoes when we compare ourselves with a large number of other European countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151857	No. I recognise that Denmark has a huge problem because we have such an animal production that we need to reduce if it is the case that we have to comply with the EU Water Framework Directive. It sounds as if the Left is not prepared to live up to the international commitments we have, among other things. in relation to the EU; as if you just want to drive on and continue this manure gate, which has been folded over this reign. I find it embarrassing for Denmark not to take environmental problems any more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151925	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207151933	Thank you for that, President. I'd like to start by commending the bill. I think it is very positive with a legislative proposal that sets the framework for future targeted regulation. There is no doubt that targeting our nitrogen regulation is the right way forward, and efforts must be made as effectively as possible. I am also very concerned that we are doing this as cost-effectively as possible. We are in a situation where the commitment requirement in some areas will increase, and we have decided, fortunately, with the food and agriculture package, that action should be taken against compensation for the individual farmer. We have even promised one another within the framework of the agreement that farmers should have more means at their disposal. And I think that we should pay particular attention to this issue and really take care to develop more ways of crediting good farming practice. Because we cannot rely solely on more and more catch crops. It is too expensive and does not harmonize with what I would call good farming practice. The tools in the toolbox are currently in operation. limited to a very few and must become more as soon as possible. What about e.g. intelligent buffer zones, early sowing, etc. etc.? However, I am very pleased that the Minister has highlighted the possibility of launching pilot schemes to promote the development and implementation of new instruments in the run-up to this bill. We have seen at least one good example of this with so-called precision soil farming, where farms that practice a more precise dosage of manure in the field can both achieve an economic gain and be credited by the environmental gain that is there because there is a lower loss of nutrients from the field. We must reward such farms so that both the environmental and the economic impact is credited to the farmer. In this way, we will achieve the most cost-effective instruments. I am fully aware that the approval of new instruments takes time at present. Maybe too long. In terms of authority, new ideas are needed, and I have then referred to free pilot schemes as the way in which we can test new instruments in practice and gather knowledge about them in a way in which the industry is involved in a constructive way. This requires a different way of thinking, and I would like to say something about that. Speaking now of the targeting of nitrogen efforts, it is clear that we also need to look more closely at where the fields lie. We have these 90 so-called coastal waters, which can, in principle, have completely different effort requirements. And that is why it is also natural that as a farmer with fields in different catchment areas, we must meet different requirements, and that also requires the level of reporting, which is what we are actually going to do with this bill. In fact, the instruments must now be reported at field level. It is so clear that with an increased level of reporting it will require more time in front of the screen for the individual farmer and therefore less time in the animals or in the field, but it also opens up some opportunities. And it is important to me that the burdens and opportunities actually go along fairly in parallel. One obvious possibility is that the instrument can be adapted to a greater extent to the individual field, and I am therefore also pleased that the draft law provides for the possibility of establishing catch crops at different times and not being tied up to a single deadline. In this way, we will also be able to unblock the date tyranny which Mrs Lise Bech mentioned earlier and which makes no sense at all. So overall, this is a positive and good bill, which the Liberal Alliance naturally supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152420	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152423	Thank you. The rapporteur made the point that catch crops could not solve the whole task and started talking about some modern technology. However, does the rapporteur not see that we have a problem with the fact that no significant nitrogen reduction is now being proposed until after 2021? Then we have this situation where the latest NOVANA report says that there has been no reduction in nitrogen emissions expected otherwise. Then you have a task that is approx. 18,000 tonnes, you have to reduce by 6 years. So that's 3,000 tonnes to reduce by. The rapporteur says that perhaps some new technology can be created that can do something, but does the rapporteur not see that we are leaving a major problem to agriculture if we do not get started now? The rapporteur will vote in favour of the draft law, but that is not enough; it is not enough to indicate how we achieve objectives. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152523	I usually say in this situation that my vision doesn't have a problem. It still doesn't. Compared to these figures, i.e. 3,500 tonnes now towards 2021 and 6,200 tonnes after 2021, I would say that the finish line is not until 2027, and it is entirely according to the food and agriculture package, which I know very well that the questioner is not part of, and the agreement that the parties behind it have on the ongoing reduction efforts. It really means a lot to me that there are stable and predictable framework conditions for the agricultural industry, and that is why I think it is very positive that we have created this food and agriculture package, where we can look up and see what it is for some overall reduction requirements that are for the agricultural industry in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152621	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152622	So the stable conditions are so disrupted by the fact that in 2021 you suddenly have a task of reducing by 18,000 tonnes of nitrogen in a relatively short time. After all, there will be an abrupt awakening where there are clearly some farmers who will be required to have fewer livestock and fertilise less. Well, what are you imagining? Isn't there any means where you could already say: we actually think that there is something we know that you could already implement from now on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152655	I fully share the impatience of the questioner in having other instruments implemented in addition to catch crops and a few others. It is also one of the criticisms of the Liberal Alliance. We would very much like to see some more instruments on the palette that each farmer can use. Unfortunately, there is then, one might say, such an authorisation procedure and there must be some research evidence for it and so on. I think I addressed precisely that issue in my speech and am pleased that pilot schemes have been opened up, where we can make some minor experiments on the implementation and development of new instruments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152735	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach, there are no more brief remarks. We move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207152743	Yes, we are standing here with a poetry work of a new main law of 239 pages, which we have had a week's time to look at. It is relatively incalculable and a very difficult task, because it is also technical material. I would like to start by saying that I think it is problematic for democracy that we in the Folketing are presented with something so extensive and have so little time to deal with it. Then you might ask: why should it be so fast when it is a new main law? The only thing I've been able to get out of people I've been talking to is that it's about this coming into force before the growing season starts in earnest. Then I think: it was really funny, because I have also heard that this main law does not, in fact, have any sharpenings or relaxations built into it, at least that is how it is explained to us. So the upcoming growing season could be done in the old way, so you could be ready for next year's growing season and have this piece of legal work done thoroughly. That's why I get a little suspicious and think: okay, if things are going so fast, there may be some relaxation in this law, but because it's so comprehensive and technical, it can be hard to figure out. What I can then do, and what I do when I look at legislative proposals, is that I look down in the hearing answers, and there I see several concerns. There are a great many consultation parties who have different concerns. In fact, there are a total of 58 pages of consultation answers, and I lean on both the Danish Organic Association and the Danish Nature Conservation Association as two organisations that I often listen to. You have a lot of concerns about this bill. Then I also have the concern, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned here, that we do have a task. We have a target of 42 000 tonnes of nitrogen in 2027 and there is much talk of a climate law, which is, of course, a law that has built in a long-term goal, and there is much talk of tightening up the existing climate legislation. Why don't you make a big main law like this one with the targets built in so that we can clearly see where we're going, where we're going in 2027? Then you can set up sub-targets and measures that are then appropriate. I would think it was a good idea and a healthy and sensible way to make a new main law in this area. After all, it is simply a question of meeting the Water Framework Directive, which comes from the European Union and which we ourselves have been involved in deciding. So overall, we're very skeptical of this new main law in the Alternative. We expect to vote against it so far, but there is clearly a need for the committee work to be considerably wiser and to get answers to some questions, to explain some details so that we can feel confident that only improvements are involved here. But so far I do not feel convinced and we propose to vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153121	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153124	Well, I have full respect for the fact that there are some technical things that need to be clarified, some questions that need to be answered, etc. etc. That is exactly what we have the committee procedure for. It puzzles me a little if we look at it this way together, because we have heard the alternative say many times that we must have shredded things like that, involve new knowledge and try to do it in a new way, etc. That's exactly what this is all about. As I also highlighted in my rapporteur's speech a little earlier, for many years now we have made a general regulation, now we have a targeted regulation, so that we can give more priority to environmental efforts, just where that is needed. That should be nice music in the ears of the alternative, too. That is why I am surprised that it has so far been completely abandoned. It seems that a new alternative argument has been put forward to try to be a misfinder rather than a pathfinder. I think that's how you could have thought of saying it yourself in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153221	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153223	The principle of targeted regulation, in other words, that we should regulate a little differently, depending on the recipient's proximity to where pollutants are to be emitted. But when you implement targeted regulation, you can do it in 100 different ways. You know, in this main law proposal, it seems that you don't take the job seriously. In other words, the effort to further reduce pollution has been postponed until after 2021, and no concrete steps have been taken to ensure that we achieve a reduction in pollution. So, yes, perhaps the principles of targeted regulation are sound overall, but as they are implemented here, as I have the impression, it is in a very inappropriate way for the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153313	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153315	Very briefly: there is full respect for technical clarity, but this bill is exactly what gives the legal basis for implementing the targeted regulation. That's the superior. The other points raised by the rapporteur, which we have also heard earlier in the debate, are not at all in this draft law. So it should, of course, be able to remove all the concerns. If the alternative wants something of the innovation, change, new methods, new perspectives and the inclusion of new knowledge, then I think we should try to talk again at committee meetings, because this ought to be nice music in the ears of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153351	It is not immediately, no, because the targeted regulation, as I said, is a very good principle, but what is central to me and for the alternative is that we reduce pollution of our nature in Denmark. That doesn't give this bill any hope that we do. It seems that pollution is now the same and that we are postponing serious action to a later date. That is why, of course, we cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153420	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153429	First of all, as others have done, I would like to draw attention to the very inappropriate nature of putting forward such a comprehensive draft law, which must be a new main law, without Parliament having had a proper opportunity to chew its way through it. That is not fair working conditions, nor is it good for democracy. But the government evidently wants a quick treatment, for God knows what reason, rather than thorough treatment. The government believes that there is a need to adjust the targeted regulation. The SF agrees with that. Targeted regulation has not emerged as a concept in the blue block. It comes from the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission of April 2013. We therefore agree that there is a need to adjust the targeted regulation, but in a direction that is different from that of the government. We believe that it is pointless year after year to pay agriculture to sow crops to collect excess nitrogen after the agricultural package has made it possible to fertilise economically all over the world. The State pays to eliminate pollution more or less targeted by the economically optimal use of manure by plant breeders. It is significant that Agriculture & Food and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association today have a common proposal to set aside agricultural land for reasons such as: nitrogen pollution, while we are currently discussing adjustments to the government's monetary machinery to pay farmers to sow post-crops to collect excess nitrogen. Agriculture & Food and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association's proposals point the way forward: the removal of poor agricultural land. It is, of course, a real and permanent measure that will benefit the aquatic environment, reduce climate gases, increase natural space and biodiversity and contribute to climate adaptation inådale and shallow areas, whereas the government's response is to pay farmers to sow post-crops year after year to collect nitrogen surplus resulting from removal of the nitrogen ceiling. The field should not be in the autumn and there is a need to cover the winter, but it should be the responsibility of farmers, not the state, to carry out good farming practices. Two things should happen. Fertiliser use must be targeted in greater detail at the fields and there are areas to be removed from rotation, because retention is simply too poor. I don't think there can be any disagreement about that. The bill does not move us in this direction, even after we now know that nitrogen losses to the aquatic environment are rising by 700 tonnes a year and that nitrate has increased in the last two years under the root zone. We cannot support this proposal at the moment. We would like to drill into a number of issues in the committee's work. For example: the comments to the proposal indicate that it contributes to the implementation of climate commitments, but how it does so does not appear. In this context, we would like to ask how much the agricultural share of over-fertilisation leads to increased production of methane in the polluted lakes and fjords and marine areas. We would also like to ask what is going to happen in the third water plan period, which may have to be reduced by 2,500 tonnes per year. And how is it taken into account in the legislative proposal and relevant legislation, including announcements, that the water temperature has increased at least one degree since the 1970s, according to the implementation of the nitrates directive etc. Should climatic conditions be taken into account? In short, is the bill also adapted to climate change? So we are going to ask some questions and are unable to support the proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153827	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153829	Again, it is fair enough that it is said that there are a lot of technical issues that need to be clarified. Now the rapporteur also mentions today's proposals from Agriculture & Food and DN, and I would just like to point out that, as rapporteur for the Left, I have said that we welcome this very positively. Moreover, we are also in the process of adopting a financial law based on the government and on the blue camp, and there we have also set aside a pool for land distribution, including the possibility of taking out some of those lands. There are a whole range of different proposals, so it's just to mark that although this is probably a big bill, it's not the only answer, but it's an important answer. It's just to narrow it down, because speaking time is not enough to get around everything in this, but the very perspective of it is targeted environmental regulation, and I hear that SF also thinks that's good. Then there is a lot of technique in it and how we move forward in terms of objectives. But now we are getting a start right up in the helicopter perspective so that we can implement the targeted environmental regulation, and that is probably very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207153936	Yes, but the difference is that we are thinking that targeted regulation should be used to reduce nitrogen emissions. That's all the difference. I know, sir. Erling Bonnesen often says that it is because we do not support targeted regulation, but that is not the case, because that is just a completely different starting point. After all, the assumptions and accounts used by the agricultural package do not mean that we are going to use targeted regulation to reduce.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207154014	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207154016	I have not claimed that SF does not support targeted environmental regulation. I sought to clarify whether both the SF and the Left support targeted environmental regulation, and that is the case, so we have got it in place, and that is good. Then we say that there are a number of other technical things, how to achieve objectives, etc., but we must follow that up afterwards. On some of the points raised in the debate here, I would just like to point out that this is not the legislative proposal that has to do with it, because we will also be talking about water plan III and the follow-up to the NOVANA report and all the other things on the side. So if we could sort of concentrate on this, this is actually enough, I hear SF also saying, that it is very good that we get the targeted environmental regulation implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207154054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207154056	I fully agree that we agree that targeted regulation is common sense. However, when I also call for the other things, it is because when we embark on such a comprehensive review of legislation, it could be good that we also made legislation that was a little bit future-proof, so that we do not have to change it. We have a huge bill in front of us, which we are currently simply pushing forward to agriculture, which they will have to catch up with in 2027, and that will therefore be a pressure on the accelerator, and I am not sure about that legislation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207154129	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207154142	Thank you for that, President. First of all, of course, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for your speeches. Several of you have noticed that this is a relatively dyke work that we are now discussing here, and so there is not much time to read it here, and I would like to say so, and we should have done so in better time. We have complied with the deadlines set by the Folketing, but this is not just a legislative proposal on a few pages, and there too we should differentiate, including on my part. So it's noted. With the agreement on the food and agriculture package in 2015, the tracks were laid out for a paradigm shift in the nitrogen regulation of agriculture from general regulation to targeted regulation. While pursuing the objectives of a cleaner water environment, the food and agriculture package also recognises that these objectives can be achieved in a more ingenious way by targeting rather than the previous approach, where all farms across the country had similar requirements. As Mrs Trine Torp mentioned earlier, the thinking on which there has generally been such strong support, the targeting of regulation, was included in the recommendations made by the Nature and Agriculture Commission in 2013. There was broad support for this from the industry, from green organisations, from the parliamentary parties. And since the first aquatic environment plans in the 1980s, agriculture throughout the country has been regulated by general requirements in relation to the laying of catch crops, reduced fertiliser use, etc. It has had the positive effect that emissions of nitrogen from agriculture to the aquatic environment have been more than halved. We must achieve fully in line with the ambitious objectives of our aquatic environment and, at the same time, ensure that we have a competitive agricultural industry. Therefore, the general approach so far needs to be abandoned. Instead, the parties to the agreement behind the food and agriculture package want the future environmental targets to be met by a regulatory model where efforts are geographically targeted to local environmental and cultivation conditions and where individual farms are given greater freedom of choice, compared to what nitrogen reduction measures they will apply, rather than being subject to standard solutions. This makes sense because the need for environmental measures is greater around closed fjords than in areas adjacent to open waters with high flow, and because there is a wide variation in cultivation and soil conditions. At the same time, it allows individual farms to choose the measures that are most appropriate and most cost-effective in relation to their cultivation conditions and in relation to their planning. In this way, we ensure that the effort is sufficient where it is needed, but, on the other hand, we also avoid unnecessary requirements where they are not needed. The result is that we can achieve a more cost-effective and precise achievement of the environmental objectives of the EU directives. We can ensure a good water environment while at the same time ensuring good conditions for the food industry in international competition, for the benefit of growth and for the benefit of employment. Targeted regulation is already in place from 2019 and it is planned to contribute towards 2021 a reduction of nitrogen emissions to coastal waters of 3,500 tonnes of nitrogen. In addition, there are improvements in groundwater status. The model is based on the positive experience gained with the targeted post-crop scheme in 2017 and in 2018 where the targeted action targets for the model have been met, and this is largely through voluntary action by the industry. The model implies that efforts are geographically targeted at the 90 coastal waters and in relation to how much nitrogen emissions need to be reduced in the areas concerned in order to ensure the necessary improvements in groundwater and surface water. Farmers can then, in a voluntary round of applications, apply for subsidies for planting after crops or for a number of other alternative, well-documented instruments. If efforts are not fully managed in the voluntary round, the residual effort will be ensured by uncompensated mandatory requirements in the areas concerned. This is therefore a model which provides good incentives for voluntary achievement of environmental objectives and which promotes the achievement of environmental objectives by measures that can make it most cost-effective. At the same time, however, it is also a model that provides the regulatory tools to ensure the necessary environmental performance if the voluntary path is not sufficient. In relation to the compensation scheme, it is important to note that in 2019 the efforts will be compensated by national funding under EU de minimis rules and by 2020 are expected to be compensated with support from the rural programme. It has the advantage that there is no upper limit for the compensation for the effort carried out by each farm. For more than a year, the Ministry of the Environment and Food has been in good dialogue with the European Commission on targeted regulation from 2020 onwards. The Commission has indicated that the model and the Danish environmental action meet the conditions for the establishment from 2020 of a support scheme under the rural development programme for targeted regulation. Our concrete proposals for a compensation scheme have been submitted in consultation yesterday and are expected to be sent to the Commission soon. The government expects the Commission to approve the proposal later this spring. I see the model I have just outlined as a significant step towards increasingly targeted and cost-effective nitrogen regulation in the future. In the coming years, we can expect further demands to be made on the development of environmental regulation when, on the one hand, we must continue to meet ambitious environmental requirements and, on the other hand, we must continue to have a competitive agricultural industry. How this is to happen, we need to find out in the coming years, but the tracks have already been laid out in the food and agriculture package and the subsequent agreement on targeted regulation. It is a question of developing new instruments that can be used in regulation. Specifically, we hope to be able to introduce so-called smart buffer zones from 2020. And further along the road we also have the use of precision technology and crop selection as instruments. Although we are constantly focusing on regulatory simplification and, as Mrs Lise Bech called for, removing unnecessary hassle, we must also recognise that the environmental regulation to which agriculture is subject is quite complex with many different environmental requirements. It must therefore also be an ambition for the future, at the same time, to strive for cost-effectiveness and targeting on the one hand, and simplicity and transparency on the other. Targeting the nitrogen regulation is an essential focal point of this law. Let me highlight here a further step in the legislative proposal. The draft law provides for the establishment of a model in which the industry has flexible time limits for the sowing of catch crops and where the reduced effect of later establishment is matched by a quota reduction. The Ministry of the Environment and Food has in recent years postponed the date for the establishment of catch crops due to the weather. In 2018 it was due to the drought, in 2017 it was due to the rain. And the industry has asked for a permanent solution, where farmers are not so dependent on the ultimate deadline, and so they are given the opportunity to sow catch crops, regardless of how weather conditions affect the harvest time in each year. The final model of flexible working time has continued to be drawn up in cooperation with, among other things: Aarhus University, and I expect that the scheme will be able to develop further in the years to come. For example, we look at the possibilities for farmers to obtain a bonus if they sow the catch crops earlier than usual. The flexible working time is thus another example of the Government's desire to provide good conditions for the profession for their operation, while ensuring the necessary environmental impact. Mrs Lise Bech made a point earlier about flexibility at field level and one of the consultation answers that has touched on this. We have listened to that, and it should have been sorted out, because that was a real point. With this bill, we are setting the framework for a modern regulation of the impact of agriculture on the environment, a regulation in which we can ensure the achievement of ambitious objectives of a clean water environment and, at the same time, giving the agricultural industry optimum conditions to remain a significant economic sector in Denmark, which earns money, which creates jobs, because the two things should not be contradictory. I hope that Parliament's parties will broadly support the bill when you chew more thoroughly through what looks like a legislative code, and I look forward to the continued discussion, including in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155152	There are a few brief comments, first it is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155156	Thank you. There is a lot of talk about the Climate Act at the moment, and it is, of course, because there has been a citizens' proposal that we should have a tightened climate law, a much better climate law in Denmark. And in the Climate Act, which applies to the one called no. 716 from 2014 and I quote: The law aims to establish an overall strategic framework for Denmark's climate policy with a view to moving to a low-carbon society in 2050... etc. etc. I wonder: would it not be appropriate to insert in a main law such as the one under discussion today a similar paragraph about something like that that law aims to ensure that Denmark achieves its targets with its reductions down to 42,000 tonnes of nitrogen per year in 2027, and thus to provide for the introduction of sub-targets along the way, which ensure that the reductions come from this year and so steadily and calmly year by year until 2027?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155305	Thank you for the question. I heard a little the same question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen before, that is, this desire that the law should be more about what it is than about how we honour it. That's just not what the law is about. It is not about speed regulation in the fields either, and there are many things it is not about. Well, the purpose of the law here is to set the framework for how we achieve these goals. After all, we have set targets based on the directives, on the food and agriculture package and on the agreement on targeted regulation. So this is more of a question of what kind of toolbox we're gonna need to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155354	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155356	So would I like to ask: does this law ensure a continuous reduction in nitrogen pollution up to 42,000 tonnes in 2027? And if that is not the case, how will the Minister help farmers to observe due diligence in starting to reduce year by year so that they do not face a huge burden at the end of the process in 2024-2025 and have only a few years to achieve the goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155426	The law is about what tools we have to achieve the objectives we have set elsewhere. It is true that these are not the objectives of the law. The objectives are set by the parties that have agreed on the food and agriculture package and the agreement on targeted regulation. There are many things this law doesn't concern and doesn't regulate this is one of them. But it's about how we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155457	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155500	I really think it's amazing that you can write so many pages when it's like it's spoken that it's a frame. I agree with the Minister that the emphasis is on voluntary action, other instruments and new instruments, but why is it that the new instruments are not being extended to a greater extent? Well, there are possibilities out there. There's, for example, there's... the possibility that we had established that rural funds would be raised from 7%. It is also true that there are a number of measures for which farmers can then receive support if they want to implement it and which could lead to nitrogen reductions. It would then be appropriate to be included in such framework legislation, in other words to make it clear that we are now starting to model our agricultural support a little, so that it goes in the direction of giving priority to the environment in a local way. Will the Minister take this into account, in other words, that we increase rural funds from 7%. 15%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155607	No, because that's not what this law is about, and that's also a little what I said to Mr. Knox. Christian Poll before. I understand and have great respect for the many desires for what the law ought to contain and that it should be about something else. One thing, then, is that one may disagree on the substance itself, but there also seems to be a disagreement on what the law should be about in general terms. Now it is this law that we are dealing with and the content that has been put forward by me. You might think that's a bad thing, but that's what we're talking about. As regards the greener application of the whole common agricultural policy, it is an ambition that I share and which I share with you in our discussions on this subject, including in the Parliament's Committee on Europe and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food, and with me at Council meetings of my European colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155710	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155712	Yes, yes, but now it is not Enhedslisten who has written a section 1 of the law, so one can take it a little seriously that it says that the law aims to regulate the use of manure by agriculture in order to limit the leaching of nitrogen and to protect nature and the environment in respect of human life and to preserve animal and plant life, taking into account flexible, uniform management across the environment and agriculture. That's the fine paragraph. And then I think it's really a shame that this bill doesn't specify how to get from 60,000 tonnes of nitrogen down to 42,000 tonnes. Can't the Minister see that it's missing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155749	No, I don't see it missing. I share the enthusiasm for what is almost a preamble in § 1, and I also think it is beautiful, and I really think that the law also lives up to it. It's kind of like when you ask the question what the car's driving on. Yeah, it runs on gas, it runs on electricity, and it runs on the road. It runs on many things, but depending on how you perceive the question, you will answer differently, and that is clearly what we are doing here. I really think that this law quite well describes what kind of a way to secure this balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155826	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155828	Thank you. First of all, I would like to sign the Minister to acknowledge that the conditions for the legislative work are not satisfactory for the members of the committee, and that is why there must also be some questions here along the way, which may well be the hallmark of it. One of the things that we care about in the Social Democratic Party is, of course, whether there are some environmental reductions in this law, which, at the first slant reading of these 239 pages, it didn't come naturally to see, and that's why it's quite simple question from me: are there individual measures in the law parts that, individually or collectively, can lead to a lower nitrogen effort? I'm a little concerned about that, and it would be nice to know if there are such parts of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207155927	As I mentioned before, I agree that with such a dyke a work it is nice to have longer time, and I would like to regret that there was not. The challenge of sending it out before, to say what it is, is that we have been a little overstretched because of the drought last summer and it has taken a lot of effort and therefore it has not come out before. I would like us to have a proper hearing period, precisely because it is a dyke work. I would also like us to get the changes out as soon as possible. Christian Poll also asked the rapporteur of the Left about before the start of the season in order to get the rules on flexible catch crops and the rules on penalties in place before the start of the growing season. In answer to the question, I would say that the intention of this is not that there should be environmental reductions in the law, and it is not my intention to sneak such ones into page 219 or somewhere else; so the purpose of this is to get the tool to make this targeted regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207160039	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207160040	Thank you. One thing is, of course, what the intention is, another is what the law allows, and that is really what I am asking, i.e. whether, among the individual measures that are in the law, it is such a cluster of measures that can either individually or collectively contribute to a lower nitrogen effort, i.e. a relaxation. I think it would be nice to have a clear answer to that, in other words, despite the intentions there are no such measures. So I would ask the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207160118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207160119	No, that is to say, the law provides for flexibility, which we have also mentioned in the past, that is, the flexibility in terms of means of action, that you have several different things to choose from. But that does not mean that the requirements are relaxed. There is flexibility in terms of how to achieve the goal, but not a relaxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207160139	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190207160201	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 8 February 2019. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
