ParlaMint-DK_20190220130036	The meeting is open. We need the Secretary of Defense, so I'm gonna have to postpone the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220130515	The meeting is open. Both ministers are in place. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 165 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 166 (Proposal for a law on the continuation of certain rights relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without an agreement). Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille): Bill no. L 167 (Proposal for a Law on the Temporary Continuation of Rights under the Law on Municipal and Regional Elections and the Act on the Election of Danish Members to the European Parliament in the context of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 105 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a group of experts in the field of placement). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190220130623	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 21 February 2019. It is the rapporteur for the questions put by Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party, for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220130651	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to both the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and the Minister for Defence for being able to meet so quickly for the urgent request concerning fire safety in the country's nursing homes and settlements. This urgent request has been called in the wake of the tragic death fire at Farsøhthus in Allingeåbro at Auning. It is another tragic fire with fatal outcome that should not happen and where we must do everything in our power so that it does not happen again. After the fire, it has emerged that the nursing home had exemptions, and it is even exceptions that could be called into question if it should have been granted; a derogation which dates back to 1997, which was that there was a fire station nearby. Derogations should always be granted only for a limited period, after which they must be recovered. In the Danish People's Party we have been very concerned about whether the fire requirements are good enough in older or renovated nursing homes built before 1977, that is to say nursing homes built before the new and tougher requirements that we have today for new building in the building regulations. That is why the Danish People's Party asked the Danish Parliament to deal with motion for a resolution B 26 in December, but unfortunately there was no support for the proposal at the time. We are concerned whether it is not inappropriate for all municipalities operating a nursing home to be financially responsible for supervising and approving the derogations, but unfortunately there was no sensitivity to that. However, we are so pleased to note that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing also took the fire seriously. The Minister has launched a study in which half of the municipalities have responded and the result was far worse than feared. On all municipalities which derogate from fire safety requirements in our housing, the Minister said: "It is quite unacceptable that in municipalities in this country, which under other measures derogate from the requirements for fire safety in our nursing homes. ▪ So the Minister has himself pointed out that there are municipalities that depart from the requirements of fire safety in our care homes. We are talking about citizens who are often unable to get out of buildings by their own means and where at night there are only 1-2 employees for 35-40 citizens. All elderly people must be able to feel safe in our nursing home, and there is no discussion about this, and the Danish People's Party has called for this urgent request to hear what action the government intends to take with the knowledge that the Minister has now received and has been exposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220130944	Thank you. Here you go, the minister for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220130953	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this debate on fire safety in nursing homes. The fire at the Care Center Farsøhthus in August was a clear reminder of how important it is to take fire safety seriously. This applies in particular to nursing homes where the residents cannot bring themselves to safety if a fire occurs. Immediately after the fire at Farsøhthus, I therefore took a number of initiatives to ensure that fire safety in the country's nursing homes is controlled. A technical study was first launched on the fire at Farsøhthus, and then I started a thorough study on fire safety in the country's nursing homes. Based on the preliminary results of this study, I have pointed out to the municipalities that they have a duty to legalise illegal fire safety conditions and I have asked the municipalities to report back on the legality of the situation. At the same time, I have discussed fire safety in nursing homes with a number of rapporteurs on the building, emergency, defence and elderly areas, and I can conclude that there is agreement on the message: there must be questions for today's debate repeating some of the issues that we discussed in consultation in September and at first reading of resolution B 26. Today it is being asked whether the government will change the authority's responsibility for fire safety in buildings, the rules for exemptions from the fire requirements of the building regulations, the sanctions on the basis of fire vision. It is basically the responsibility of the owner of the building to ensure that the building is legal and is not a danger to the persons staying in it. This also applies to nursing homes owned by a municipality. However, the municipality is also a building authority which has to decide on construction cases and must ensure that illegal situations are legalised if it becomes aware of them. In addition, fire vision is carried out in nursing homes. This task is also the responsibility of the municipalities and is carried out daily by the local authorities. Unfortunately, the investigation into the fire at Farsøhthus showed that fire safety was not good enough. Here, among other things, there were: a derogation from the requirement to sprinkle and a living kitchen was provided as part of the escape route. In September, in order to get an overview of how fire safety is in the country's other nursing homes, I wrote to the municipalities and, as I said, I took the initiative for a national study on fire safety in nursing homes among the municipalities. Questionnaires were therefore sent out in October to all the municipalities of the country asking them to answer a number of questions about fire safety in their nursing homes. The preliminary findings from the study unfortunately show that virtually all municipalities have reported shortcomings in fire safety. This is totally unacceptable, and I have therefore asked the municipalities that have reported deficiencies in fire safety to indicate by 15 April this year when they are taking the initiative to ensure that all care homes comply with the required fire safety standards. I would also like to make it clear that local authorities must not grant exemptions which lead to a deterioration in fire safety, even over time. That message must go through clearly to the municipalities, and the government will therefore tighten the rules so that exemptions from fire requirements are limited in time. In addition, I believe that the statutory fire surveillance in nursing homes, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, must be strengthened so that they help to increase fire safety. I know the Secretary of Defense agrees with that, otherwise I didn't dare say this. On the other hand, I do not think there is a need to shift the responsibility of the authorities from the municipalities, but I fully agree that those who have to provide fire protection in building matters must be professionally capable and impartial. This is ensured by the certification scheme for the technical construction of fire and construction conditions. Buildings in which the fire protection had previously to be carried out through the technical construction treatment of the municipalities must instead be affiliated with a certified fire counsellor. To be certified as a fire counsellor you must have years of relevant training and at least 2 years of professional experience. This will help to ensure that the fire protection is carried out by persons who are competent for it. Similarly, a certification scheme can strengthen the impartiality of those responsible for fire protection, as certification can be deprived of advisors if it turns out that the fire protection does not meet the requirements. I would like to conclude by pointing out that there should be no doubt that I look very seriously at fire safety. The construction must be healthy, safe and safe to travel in for all citizens. That is why the fire in Farsøhthus has been followed up with an investigation into the fire itself, and subsequently I have launched a study on the fire safety in nursing homes throughout the country. Although research into fire safety in nursing homes has not yet been completed, on the basis of preliminary findings, I have already asked municipalities with shortcomings in fire safety to explain when it will be put in order. When the study is completed, I will also follow up on the overall results so that fire safety in nursing homes can be controlled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131532	Thank you. Then, in fact, there is one brief comment from the rapporteurs to the Minister. Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131537	Thank you for that and also thank you for the statement here. We in the Danish People's Party are really happy about the things that have already been put in place and that the minister takes this fire safety issue in our nursing home incredibly serious. As the Minister himself says, we are talking about people who may not be able to move themselves in the event of a fire. Now it's like we have two sets of rules we're gonna follow. It is whether the buildings are from the beginning of the 1970s, or whether they are built later, in terms of sprinklers and alarms etc., if they are left untouched. As I understand it, and the Minister may confirm this, it is only if a nursing home has a certain kind of reconstruction that it will then fall under the new building regulations. Then I would like to know whether the Minister is going to have to tighten up in the future with nursing homes, which are from the early 1970s and before, which have not been rebuilt and then do not meet the fire requirements we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131640	I would also like to thank Mrs Susanne Eilersen for her cooperation here. We've inspired each other, I think. Mrs Susanne Eilersen has had some good ideas which have now become government policy, and the government has also had good ideas which, I think, are Mrs Susanne Eilersen's policy, so it has been good cooperation. The demand for sprinklers in nursing homes came in, as I recall, in the late 1970s. And there are very few nursing homes that have not been in the period since the late 1970s through a renovation that is so large that the building regulations require that sprinklers be introduced. If it isn't out there and that's what the investigation suggests it is probably because you haven't done as the law requires, and therefore, as I see it, the need is not to change the law, the need is to comply with the law. And that is what my work here is all about, and that is what we are going to get to grips with now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131744	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131748	Thank you for that, and also thank you from me for the report on the very unhappy issue, which we are in complete agreement on never again having to repeat. But the question of how we can keep control of the fact that this does not actually happen again is a bit of a concern to me. I can hear the Minister pointing out that we may need to think in some certified companies which, like us, should be responsible for checking that fire safety is in order. I am just wondering who is going to check the certified companies, and can we really simplify it so that we are sure that we hit the spot when it's the case that we go out and do these inspections?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131832	The law on certified companies, which is to apply to building cases relating to fire safety, has already been adopted. It already exists out there and is in the process of being implemented. There are two problems. One problem is that of large-scale construction projects which either build new ones or renovate them, i.e. whether there is any control that the construction works comply with the rules that apply. There the certified advisors come in as those who are to ensure that the municipality complies with the rules. If they do not comply with the rules, a certified counsellor may then be deprived of his authorization to do so. Then there is the question of the roars that are already out there. There I hope we can find a solution so that the fire vision can play a greater role, not only in looking at whether fire drills have been carried out, and whether there is furniture in places where there can be no furniture, but also in terms of whether the building meets the construction requirements. It is a work that must be carried out across the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing and the Ministry of Defence, because the preparedness is under the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220131952	There are no further comments to the Minister. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132005	The Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing is carrying out a study which has just been mentioned. I have then noted that on 29 January 2019 the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Agency sent a letter on the legalisation of fire safety conditions in nursing homes to a number of municipalities. It is a basic principle that the authorities live up to their responsibilities. In this case, municipalities have a responsibility to ensure that the country's care homes are operated in accordance with the fire safety requirements of emergency legislation and construction legislation. If the municipalities cannot independently fulfil this task, it is the government's view that we must take further steps to strengthen fire safety in nursing homes. I will therefore, together with the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, examine how to extend the statutory fire surveillance in nursing homes and use them to ensure that the building legislation's requirements for fire protection measures are complied with in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132121	Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132123	I would also like to thank the Secretary of Defense for coming here and explaining the matter. It's nice to hear that the fire vision also needs to be tightened up now. I would like to hear the Minister for Defence there, if it is also intended that these firesights should be extended. Today, in connection with fire vision, you only have to go in and look at the use and layout of the homes, as I understand it, and not look at the structure and structure of the building, i.e. whether there are sprinkler systems and other things. Will this further fire vision mean that the preparedness can now also look at the nature of the buildings and whether there are sprinklers and other things? Is that what the Minister is planning?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132209	One can say that the division of tasks between the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing is a long name you have there, so shouldn't we call you the Minister for Transport in the future? for the physical building itself, including fire doors, fire alarms, sprinkler systems, etc. What the Emergency Management Authority is responsible for is emergency legislation, including provisions on operational regulations and requirements and regulations on fire vision. Thus, the rules of emergency legislation complement the construction engineering requirements of the construction legislation with some operational requirements, and the operational regulations therefore relate only to the operation, i.e.: the use of the building, and primarily concerns provisions on escape routes and fire-fighting equipment and rules of order. The rules of emergency legislation on operational requirements shall apply regardless of when the building has been put into service or when the premises have been put into service. So it's like that, what to say, overall division of tasks that is. I cannot state here what will have to be changed, but I think the two ministries will discuss that in the future. But it is clear that the fire vision that must take place must also be an effective fire vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132353	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132355	Thank you for that and also thank you for answering the question. After all, the emergency services are the ones that come out and experience how wrong things can go when things go wrong. I would just like to know if the Secretary of Defense himself has any idea if the Emergency Aid wasn't really the best at doing these inspections and ensuring that the fire safety is okay. After all, they are the ones who know where the damage is and where it is that has to be done. So would it have been more effective if we had really placed this task with the Emergency Aid from the outset?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132432	I'm not sure. I believe that the task should lie with the municipalities. It is the municipality that owns the building, it is the municipality that operates the building, it is the municipality that designates who is to live in the building, so the right thing to do is that it is the municipality that has this responsibility, but one must of course be aware that the municipality then also carries out the task that the municipality has.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132503	Thank you. Then there are no more questions to the Ministers, so we can proceed with the debate and the general rules apply to short remarks. It is first the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220132518	Thank you. Last year, seven people lost their lives as a result of a fire in the country's nursing home, and I think we can all agree that is seven people too many. From 2014 to 2017, 27 out of 264 victims were killed by fire living in nursing homes, which is equivalent to 10%. Compared with this, it is only 4%. of elderly people over 65 who live in a nursing home. So statistics show, with their clear language, that there are too many death fires in our nursing homes compared to the national average, and that is totally unacceptable. In the Danish People's Party we will first of all have examined the situation fully, and there are three things that the Danish People's Party considers to be critical from the feedback the minister has received from the municipalities. 75% of the reported nursing homes did not have sprinkler systems, even if they should have had them under the legislation, and they should at least have had a derogation indicating why they do not have them. That's unheard of. The question arises, of course, whether the municipalities have taken too lightly the approval of their own buildings, what I hope is not the case. The second is, after all, the absence of A derogation should always have to be renewed within a few years. The background to the derogation may have changed many times. Thirdly, these missing exemptions cannot be pointed out in the annual fire vision. This also raises the question of whether the annual fire vision has the right focus or tools, as there is now no legal basis in the legislation for anything other than to address the design of the building or the use of the same. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that all the country's nursing homes and settlements are now being reviewed one by one, and the municipalities are being asked to put in place a plan of action to put things right. And I would like to ask the Minister to follow up on whether the nursing homes comply with the fire requirements in accordance with their own reports and that they follow the timetables they now have to set. It is good that an external player has now been put on. One might then ask whether this is the right system. We in the Danish People's Party would also have liked to see the preparations given a greater role here, but it is good that there is now, like a third party, to give the municipalities these approvals. But as I read this new agreement that has been made, that there must be an external approval, I read it as if it were only new buildings we are talking about, that is to say, that you have to go out and approve new buildings. I am also hoping that it will be in the process of remodeling, and I would like the Minister to take the initiative, whether it is also in the case of conversions, that we should have a third-party assessment of what a foster home might look like. Fourthly, there must be much greater focus on annual fire vision. In future, we must avoid a situation where a building does not meet the fire requirements or has a derogation without being charged with an annual fire vision. Therefore, the Danish People's Party wants an annual fire vision to have extended powers and guidelines, so that the annual fire vision also deals with the construction of the building, in close cooperation with the municipal tools. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence to make a statement on how many orders have been made in connection with fire-vision in nursing homes and settlements since 2014 and whether these instructions have been complied with and what sanctions have been applied to municipalities that may not have complied with the injunctions. We are talking here about older people, very weak elderly people moving to our nursing home. All of us in Denmark must be able to send our elderly safely to a nursing home. It is our duty to look after them. It is residents who cannot save themselves out of a burning building, and at night that often only one or two night shifts to 35-40 residents. We must make sure that we do everything possible, both with technology and with the economy, to prevent another tragedy like the one we saw last summer in Djursland. I will conclude by saying that I assume that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and the Minister for Defence will follow up on all these cases that have now appeared and follow them to the very end, so we are sure that they will deliver the fire requirements forward, because in the Danish People's Party we take this very seriously. The municipalities simply have to ensure that the fire requirements are in order and we will follow them closely in the coming years too. Then I shall read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Government, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes the fire safety problems in nursing homes very seriously, and the government is obliged to take action to strengthen fire protection. Derogations from the fire requirements of the building regulations shall be limited in time and the statutory fire surveillance in nursing homes shall be extended. The implementation of the certification scheme will ensure that technical fire handling procedures are in future carried out by approved undertakings. • V 75).
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133107	This proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133122	Thank you for that, President. This is, in fact, a follow-up to the debate we had this autumn in Parliament on motion for a resolution No. B 26, which was the result of the tragic fire that we had at Farsøhthus on Djursland. At that time, the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing promised to carry out a study, and that is what we are now seeing the contours of, and we have been informed of at rapporteur level as well. It's not pleasant information. A very large proportion of the nursing homes renovated after the 1977 building regulations were adopted do not comply with the rules laid down in the same building regulations. Figures have been presented, and if you only take those who have been renovated and who should have had fire protection installed, it is up to three quarters that do not follow the rules. Now you also have to remember that I think it is important to point out that only for those who should have been renovated during that period. The fact remains that the vast majority of nursing homes comply with the rules because they are built after 1977. But it is a problem that is particularly serious, especially because the people who are older and who live in nursing homes can typically also have problems with moving or, at least, problems with moving at a certain speed, and there are relatively few people on guard at many of these nursing homes. So there is a great danger of fire. It is not because there has been no attention to the problem in the past. When we had the SRSF government, a shepherd letter was sent to the municipalities about the municipalities' failure to comply with these rules. I even believe that the minister responsible at that time is here in the Chamber today. But what we can see in the inventory that's been made is that it hasn't worked, so it has to be stronger lye for the shackled heads we're dealing with here. There are between 60 and 100 deaths a year, and that is totally unacceptable, and we must have done something about it. As a starting point from the Social Democrats, we expect that when you have received a message from the government that you as a municipality or private carers have to comply with the law, you will comply with it. So, unfortunately, a lot of people haven't done that. As a follow-up to this study, we have therefore asked the government to make a request to private care centres and to regional settlements where there may also be residents who have difficulty in moving. Here we think that the same thing as in the municipalities should be done in order, and it is our impression that it will be complied with. We call on the government to amend the provisions of the building regulations' fire requirements so that temporary exemptions can only be made. Then, after a number of years, it can be re-examined if a derogation has been granted, where the premise of the explanatory statement has fallen or which is, for other reasons, obsolete. We also call on the government to extend the statutory fire vision and to include the experience that exists from the places where the municipal tools are best at doing this here. There are some parts of the country where there are very well-functioning arrangements. And then we call on the municipalities to consider how older people who smoke should be placed. We are not going to hunt down the smokers, but unfortunately it is often smokers who die in these death fires. There we could imagine placing them in houses that are fireproof or that, if they enter the quarter of homes that are not, you might have a mobile plant. So, finally, I have a proposal for adoption and it is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes fire safety problems in nursing homes very seriously and expects the government to further strengthen fire safety through concrete measures, including temporary exemptions from the fire requirements of the building regulations and the extension of statutory fire vision, for example. based on the experience of the municipal tools. The Danish Parliament calls on the municipalities to use mobile fire protection facilities for non-fire-proof housing for smokers. • V 76).
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133552	Thank you. This proposal is also included in the further negotiations. Then there is a brief comment from Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133604	Thank you. And thank you for the speeches by the rapporteurs. It is clear that we are very close to each other. This is a problem which all parties in this House take very seriously, I think one can say. The only thing that could concern me a little is the fact that the rapporteur said that it was not about chasing people whether people are allowed to smoke or not smoking when they go to a nursing home. Well, it's still the citizens' own home. And I just want to make sure that the Social Democratic Party does not want to go out and say that people going to nursing homes are no longer allowed to smoke. So I just need the rapporteur to confirm that this is not the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133646	I would very much like to confirm that. Of course, you are allowed to have the lifestyle that you had in your own home when you go to a foster home. But we think it is very appropriate when we see that a very large proportion of the fires that are have something to do with smoking. And I remember, since I was a kid, that there were such ads where it said: Don't smoke in bed. And that has something to say, if you've gotten older and maybe sometimes you can forget some things... then it increases the risk. And then we think it is important that we also live in a place where there is proper fire safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133725	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133726	Thank you. Of course, I fully agree with the rapporteur on this, but I can only be concerned that it may then present some challenges for the municipalities. Because I do not think that there are any municipalities today that have a lot of extra nursing homes to stand ready, specially designed for smokers. After all, we should like to make sure that all homes are safe to live in no matter what. And I do not think that the rapporteur wants to impose the extra cost on the municipalities by having such a larger number of housing units that must always be ready if and when there is a smoker. So what is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133809	Thank you. Well, if you look at the 500 feedback received by the Ministry, that's about. 124 or 126 of them, I think it is that does not follow the requirements. That is to say, it is approx. A quarter. So three-quarters of existing nursing homes are still gone, at least by those who have responded to the requirements. So there is a certain possibility of placement. But it's clear that it's a municipal task to take care of this. We will then come alone with a call for it to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133838	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let's move on. Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220133851	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we believe that the Danish People's Party is quite right when it is said that fire safety at care centres should be taken very seriously. It is precisely when we talk about nursing homes that very often residents are not able to bring themselves to safety in the event of a fire. The fire at Farsøhthus Care Center in August tragically highlighted the importance of fire safety. The investigation into the fire showed that in this case fire safety was not good enough. From the somewhat boring background, I would like to commend the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing for taking stock of the situation when the Minister immediately launched a study on how fire safety looks in the country's other nursing homes. Unfortunately, the process has shown that there are quite a few deficiencies in fire safety in almost all municipalities, and this is obviously not acceptable. In the Left, we do not believe that we should deprive the municipalities of authority, as proposed by the Danish People's Party. It is now the case that the certified companies mentioned here must be allowed to review the safety of the fire. I believe we can have confidence in this, so that the buildings will be properly constructed. As far as the second element is concerned, namely the continuous fire vision, it is the case that municipal equipment has been available in the municipalities. In principle, this is still the case, but the municipal tools are now designed differently than they were. It is the case that the municipal tools are turned down from 98 to today, as I recall, 22-23. These are more professional organisations, because they are large organisations. I myself have previously had the pleasure of being chairman during the first period of preparation where I come from, which covers three large municipalities, and I have the impression that the way in which the fire visions are organised has been professionalised. In fact, it is also the case that the legislation says that you can carry out thematic reviews, where you can also go in and be consultative, in relation to how you fit in. There, I think, smoking is one of the things that needs to be taken very seriously. In a number of the deaths there are, it is not actually the building that burns, but the chair or the bed in which you lie that burns, and it is clear that there will be an alarm when there is smoke, but it is actually the case that the interior design and the materials you use can also have an impact. Against this background, I am pleased that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing has asked the municipalities that have reported deficiencies in fire safety to indicate in April when they intend to ensure that their nursing homes meet the standard of fire safety so that all the country's nursing homes do so. Both residents and relatives of residents must be able to be comfortable in the country's nursing homes. And I think that today the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing have made it absolutely clear that the government takes the issue of fire safety very seriously. Finally, I should like to welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that, like the Left, they support the proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134213	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party, has a comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134215	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we have got some tools today that have some more volume and some expertise and something they can put into play here. That is why I think it might also be possible to consider that everything was under one heading, that is to say everything relating to buildings, sprinklers and everything else, and then the daily use of the buildings. Today it is split up, so that some have to approve one and there has to be a fire view on the other. Then the rapporteur would not think that if those who also look at fires had the overall package, that is to say the whole package, you might have had some instructions which I understand you have not had, by the fact that you have not had sprinkler systems. For an annual fire vision will never be able to go in and say that there must be a sprinkler system because it does not go together. So what is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134314	In fact, I believe that the system we have today is appropriate. For making a construction case is a comprehensive matter, and there will always be documentation from the latest construction case treatment. One can then consider whether to impose additional fire safety requirements on the building stock. Then you will be able to review the buildings and tell us what needs to be done. To do that check every year and to see that the material standard and floor separations and everything else have been done properly, I think without denying the scale of the problem • will be putting too many costs into play in relation to that issue we can solve. So I actually think that the division into looking at the building when you build it and looking at the operation of the building is appropriate. Looking at what it looks like, that there are no things in the escape routes, that you think about what materials you pack people into, when they may not be able to move, is a daily operational task that I think the current fire vision can do very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134423	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134424	But we now see that things have fallen between two chairs that there have been 106 nursing homes that have been approved without a sprinkler system, and they have no dispensation for it. And when they're approved, it'll be parked. Then it's okay. I think you should have something to follow up. It might also be that the preparedness with their expertise should be included in the part of the building case which concerned fire, and then perhaps not in everything else that the rapporteur says is very complicated, and I agree with the rapporteur, of course. But you should perhaps seek help and expertise, just when you look at the point that then says that the building is fireproof, so you do not get into what you have here, namely that things have fallen between two chairs and that there is no one to pick it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134514	We are, of course, right here in the problem that you can ask the continuous fire vision to also inspect whether there are sprinkler systems, and you would also be able to decide that there should be sprinkler systems in all care homes. If you decide to do so, the current fire vision will easily be able to see whether or not these sprinkler systems are present. They would also be able to ensure that they are tested. It is the case today that you look into the fire cabinets and see if the snakes have changed at the time they have to, because they must not get too old and so on. So there is a control of the equipment there is. It is also checked whether the ABA systems, i.e. the fire alarm systems, operate etc. So you'll be able to implement that part too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134556	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. No, there's just one comment. Carsten Kissmeyer, I'm sorry. I thought I had to say thank you for the floor. )
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134603	Well, you can in a minute. It was just following that talk here. I also think that the preparedness has a very important role to play in this fire area and also has very good experience to draw on. So I am actually a little surprised that the government's new proposals here place so much emphasis on the fact that it is, like private external actors, who are supposed to be in charge of this supervision and why we are not allowing the preparedness to be more responsible for this supervision as well. In fact, I hear a little bit that the rapporteur highlights just some of the qualities of preparedness. Then the rapporteur would not like to elaborate on whether there is nothing about the possibility of discussing a little more, whether we should not have a little more influence here, rather than a lot of different actors, which we may not have quite an overview of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134704	I think there's a misunderstanding here. Because what it's all about is that when we have a construction case, it's something like what kind of materials we have, what kind of carrying skills we have, how long it takes to burn through a door, etc. You have some construction experts who can handle that. The continuous fire vision is carried out by people who have a special insight into fire engineering in the way the buildings are used. Therefore, I do not think it would be appropriate to set trained fire fighters to assess the technical qualities of the building. I think you need to get in there some other professional skills. That's what you use these advisors for, which needs to be certified.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134750	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134751	In relation to obtaining such initial permits, I think it makes very good sense to have people who work with the fire area on a daily basis and who give advice about the plants and what it all looks like, the materials and so on. I guess they've had that role in the past too. It is also, as I understand it, one of the things that is being done in some of our neighbouring Nordic countries. There it is a structure that looks more like it. At any rate, I can only have a concern if it is only private actors who have the role that it can then become a little too fleeting that you do not have the systematic overview of how our entire building stock will be fire-proofed in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134839	I am confident that, when you are certified and the certification scheme works, it is relatively new that we have this certification scheme, so it will work quite well. Actually, I believe it will. I have some very different concerns about that model, but it does not concern this. It is a question of combining the whole procedure, but it is a completely different issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134904	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. I thank you for the floor). You're welcome. There is no rapporteur from the alternative, and that is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Sorry, it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. It was my fault. It was just because I thought Mrs. Eva Flyvholm had said so much, so I thought I'd pass! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220134937	That will never stop, Madam President. I think it is important that we have this discussion and that it is good that the Danish People's Party has taken it up and that the government is also accommodating that we have to tighten the rules in this area. For every time there is a person who loses his life in a fire, it is a tragedy, but fortunately it is also a tragedy that can be avoided in many cases, especially when we look at who it is that is actually dying in fires. They are both elderly people, they are sick people, they are mentally ill people, people who are exposed in different ways. There's a lot more we can do to prevent these people from dying in such a tragic way here. I would really like us to raise the objective a little too from the Danish side. If we look at our neighbouring country, Sweden, we can actually see that they have an objective that no one should die in fires. It is, of course, a high objective which you may not quite achieve, but then you also strive all the way and do everything you can in this area. If you compare that with the wording we have in Denmark with the fact that we say that the fewest possible should lose their lives in a fire, I think, frankly, that I like Sweden's objectives better. So I think we could also do that in this way, in order to get a very broad look at exactly where we can take action to prevent this happening. I think, as I said a little earlier, that there is still some consideration in relation to the entire government's proposal for the scheme on these certifications, which calls for a little bit of whether we should not use our tools, which have a great deal of experience in fire safety, something more, if not they should also be more involved in the process there, rather than becoming private actors. It is, of course, sensible to certify them, but I can still be worried that you will be spreading some experience too much and not get the overall overview of how to achieve the best possible fire safety, also over a longer period of time. So that is the slightly more structural issue that I think it would be a good thing for us to have a look at in the future, and we support the statement made by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Kaare Dybvad read from Social Democracy, Enhedslisten and SF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135214	Thank you. There's no comment, and now it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135227	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of the question. This is an important issue, and it is sadly topical. I am glad to say that this is not one of the political issues that shares, but rather that it brings together. I am convinced that fire safety will continue to improve in the coming years as a result of the initiatives that have been taken and I am very pleased with the adoption text which comes from the questioners and which the government also supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135258	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135306	Thank you. I also thank you for calling the question debate. I think this is an important debate, although we have discussed this issue sometimes over the past period. But what can't happen just happens once in a while. Even though I actually share Enhedslisten's wish that this should never happen again, it just happens anyway a cigar that is forgotten in a flowerpot, lost on the floor or anything else, just makes us get into the situation that there is a fire where there should not be a fire. And it is always very serious when it happens, especially when it hits nursing homes or other institutions where citizens cannot save themselves out. Many of the employees who have faced such a situation are, in fact, my personal heroes, but I also know that, despite the fact that most of them have always acted correctly and correctly in the situation, it is a very great psychological strain to have experienced such a fire in a nursing home, and that is also a reason why we should try to avoid them. All the more so, I agree with the other rapporteurs that fire safety should just be in order, and we cannot have too much focus on security in institutions where our weakest citizens live. That is why I have tried to say a few times in the course of the debate that perhaps it was also an idea that we were thinking that those who already know the most are also the ones who have to play when we think about fire safety. That is why I think it has been good that a few times in the course of the debate we have also mentioned that the preparedness might be some of those who should be more involved in ensuring fire safety in the future. However, I will not fail to note another theme that has occupied me for nearly 30 years, namely that our health and safety representatives around the institutions are also an important player, because it is the first aid that makes the huge difference in how things are developing, so the more you can upgrade not only the fire drills at the institutions, but also the training of the health and safety representatives in discovering where the weak points are, for example. a table keeps standing in front of a door when it is not allowed to stand there, or a pot plant blocks a fire door, etc. So thank you also from me for the question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135613	Thank you. And Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party, has just one comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135617	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. As the rapporteur himself said, we agree on most of the things. What concerns me a little is that in the proposal for adoption, of which the rapporteur is a part, a bit of a problem suddenly arises about citizens who smoke. And I'm a little sad that it might shift the focus from what should be in focus, namely that we, as a state, municipalities and everything else, need to get these things under control, regardless of what it costs financially and something like that. That is why I am a little sad that the focus is now on older people, because I can then be afraid that it is a slip on a chat about whether older people can smoke when they go to nursing homes. And I just need to know what the rapporteur's position is on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135707	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135708	Well, I'm the kind of guy who's been trying to work in a nursing home and actually knows how bad things can go. And the example of the cigar being put in the potted plant is not one I just made up; it's the kind of thing that actually happens. Then, of course, it matters how to deal with the problem that some people smoke, for smoking, among other things. So, among demented citizens, is dangerous. It is dangerous if you put down the cigar somewhere, but I also think that the question of staff is at stake. If there are enough staff, that problem will be solved a long way along the way. That is what has been done in the past, in other words, to ensure that there were staff present when there were citizens who did not quite manage it with fire themselves; it has been ensured that there were staff present to help that nothing happened anyway. Christmas decorations and such things with light have also been removed a long time ago, and that is precisely for the same reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135806	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135808	Fortunately, you can make a lot of fine Christmas decorations with those battery lights in them, which also look cozy so we don't forget the fun out in our nursing home. However, I am at least pleased that the rapporteur says that we must focus on the means to remedy the fact that the fire does not happen, in other words, that we must not focus on whether citizens are allowed to smoke in our nursing homes or elsewhere. So it was kind of just a comment that I am glad that SF also has that attitude on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135840	Perhaps I could repeat that perhaps the Danish People's Party and the SF should be helped to ensure that there is some more staff, because the more staff there are in precisely those situations, the more chance there is that we will actually succeed in avoiding smoking that is the cause of the fire.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135855	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220135904	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mrs Susanne Eilersen for raising this debate. I think this is a very important debate, which unfortunately comes from a tragic background: this death fire at Farsøhthus. But that fire also caused a study to be started at the Ministry to find out how the general conditions are in the country's nursing homes. After all, the results of that study were presented to us a few weeks ago, and we can say that these were quite appalling figures that we were presented. About 75%. of the buildings where sprinkling was required did not meet the requirement, and only a few had applied for or been granted a derogation. But it wasn't the only mistakes that were. It also turned out that there were blocked escape routes and inadequate fire separation, etc. And, of course, it is not acceptable for the municipalities to derogate from the requirements that we have made on fire safety in our nursing homes. There's a reason why the rules are the way they are, and that's because you have to feel safe when you're in a nursing home, and unfortunately you can't do that, these numbers show you clearly. The municipalities must tighten up and get control of the buildings that do not meet the requirements, because of course you must feel safe at the country's care centres. In the Conservative People's Party, we welcome the fact that we are further examining this matter, so that we also find out how things stand with all the buildings that have not been reported back. After all, it is also a great challenge that there are a great many municipalities that have not provided information on how fire safety is in the individual nursing homes. So that's what we need to find out. But it is clear that, in the light of the knowledge we have already gained from the feedback we have received, there is at least a picture that there is a general problem and that it needs to be tightened up. So we support the fact that we are looking at the possibility of extending the statutory fire surveillance in nursing homes and also this by getting time-limited exemptions from fire requirements. I also think it is a good thing that the Minister is writing to the municipalities and asking for an explanation of what they are going to do to get these matters straightened out and put them in order, because of course they must. It must be so that you can feel safe at the country's care centers that this is something we take very seriously. So, with those words, I would just like to conclude by saying that, of course, we support the proposal for adoption which Mrs Susanne Eilersen read out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220140151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's the ministers, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220140202	I just want to thank you for a good question debate, which I think has been driven by a sincere interest in the subject and the substance of the subject, where we have given each other good ideas and inspiration on what should be focused here. We have also confirmed each other that some of what we have already decided together is good and will lead to good results so that we can sort this out. Because it has to be said that what our study has revealed is that it is not in order today in the municipalities. Now we know that this is the case, and we have written to the municipalities that they must now sort it out, and they must explain when they will get it right and then we will get it right. But thank you for a good and constructive approach to everything. This is how the people's rule works best.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220140249	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220140255	I would like to thank the Minister for his sensitivity to this and for his cooperation, as I have said before. I would just like the Minister to also confirm and promise that when you put something like this in place and ask for feedback on how the municipalities will tighten up and when they expect things to be put in order, then there will be a follow-up round where you double-check and make sure that it is done on the dates that the municipalities have said they will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220140333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220140334	Yes, I can confirm that we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220140339	Thank you. So there are no more comments. Does the Secretary of Defense want to speak? No. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 21 February 2019. I'm gonna postpone the meeting until 2:00 a.m. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150010	The sitting is resumed. I should like to begin by saying that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht under nr. Question No 3 S 524, until the Minister of Finance withdraws at the request of the author. That question shall be put to oral answer on Wednesday 27 February 2019. At the same time, I must inform you that Mr. Orla Hav under No. Question No 6 S 489 to the Minister for Health at the request of the author. That question shall be put to oral answer on Wednesday 27 February 2019. I should also like to inform you that the Rasmus Prehn under nr. Question No 8 and Question No 11 S 484 and S 523, to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. Questions shall be put to written answer. Finally, I should like to say that at the moment there is a technical error on one of our tablets in this Chamber, so we must manage today with the one tablet that works. We shall now proceed to reply to questions put to the ministers, also known as Question Time. The first question is addressed to the Minister of Justice by Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150130	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150133	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister intend to extend the recent agreement on the partial legalization of pepper spray so that it can also be carried in public spaces by persons who are not directly threatened but who work with certainty, for example: Guards and others?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150200	Thank you for the question. The security of the Danes is one of the highest priorities of the government. In general, we want to strengthen efforts to make everyone feel safe. That is why I am very pleased that, together with the Danish People's Party from 1 January this year, we have carried out a partial legalisation of pepper spray in our own home. I also find it worrying that victims of stalking or cohabitation-related violence cannot move freely because they fear being attacked. That is why, with the amendment, we have also made it possible for people who have a special need for protection to be allowed by the police to wear a pepper spray in public spaces. This means that people with a special and individual need for protection must wear a pepper spray, but it is a condition that this is a high-risk case where there is a concrete risk of the person being subjected to a violent attack. It is a matter of creating security for the individual. That is why I believe that the current system takes sufficient account of the safety of the individual, so that only people who have a specific need for pepper spray can carry it in the public domain.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150321	I'd like to tell the Minister about a young woman named Julie. Julie is very social and loves to work with people. For many years she had worked in the pub industry and until last year was the manager and manager of a popular evening place in Silkeborg. On Thursday, November 8, 2018, Julies's life changed dramatically when she was attacked by a full guest at her workplace. She was knocked over and had more fist punches on her face and in the back of her head. To this day Julie is still in pain, and you're still in the process of explaining her pain. She has lost her job because she has been afraid to be with many people at once. Julie might have avoided most of the consequences if she had had an opportunity to escape just for a few seconds to get to safety. The seconds she only had, if that's how she had to wear pepper spray on the job. The opportunity to wear pepper spray could also help on Julie's anxiety, so she could come back and work in the city life again, the work that she loves so much. Does the Minister understand that people employed in nightlife, for example: as a guard and bouncer and something like that, and which in some situations may be threatened, will feel more secure if they are given the opportunity to wear a pepper spray?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150450	Well, I can sort of understand that. It is so important for me to say that the legislation that we have put in place together allows that if you are particularly exposed, that is if there is a threat to you or if there is an assessment that you are being persecuted by some specific • yes, there may be different conditions • then you can get a permit. After all, I do not know the specific case, and I cannot assess whether it would have helped her. I understood that it was while there were guests, and you can also discuss what it would bring if someone started spraying with a pepper spray while there are plenty of guests. So I think it's a little harder than that. We must also consider what weapons are allowed to go with, because if this is spreading too much, we must also ask ourselves what it will have to do with society as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150536	I am entirely in agreement with the Minister when we talk about penalties for violence, namely that it must be severely punished and all that. But what I am thinking here is whether we should think about it in a slightly different way, namely that we should stop the attack before it develops into something that has really, really great human and socio-economic consequences. Could the Minister be willing to take a look at the preventive aspect of the fact that, as a result of the exposure, you might not be so much exposed, but at least a little exposed could be allowed to wear a pepper spray or have access to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150617	One might say that the compromise that exists is that we are now taking the step of having it in one's own home. And if you are a particularly vulnerable person, you can have it. I know, if I am not mistaken, that the wish of the Danish People's Party was to have a general legalisation of pepper spray, so that you can carry it on you. The only question is, is that the solution? I mean, would it have solved the problem in the case of Julie, I think it was that she had had one of those on her? After all, it is difficult to do anything about people suddenly acting insanely, and the question is whether she could have managed to use it. And what about the other guests? I understand that we must prevent everything we can, but I do not think it is necessarily that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150703	When I talked to Julie, she talked a lot about having she just had a few seconds so she could get away. She wouldn't have been in the situation she's facing today. And what she's thinking is that if it was the case that she had a pepper spray or something sitting on her belt when you're the manager of a place like that, she would have had the chance to get away. Does the Minister have any idea at all what it costs society for victims of violence in such vulnerable jobs to go on sick leave and in many cases develop anxiety and therefore have to be retrained for other jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150747	No, I guess it would be fresh if I made a bid for this on a stand-by basis. I'm sure you can count on something like that. Well, I think we agree that we must do everything we can to prevent this, and we agree that there must be all the possible measures and that we must come after the people who are doing this. I'm just gonna ask you a few questions. Now this is a specific case, and we can all outline cases where we think if something more could have been done. If there was a bouncer on that night, when could he have intervened? Could she have done something herself, or could anyone else? Did she really have the chance, or could they have gotten the pepper spray and used it against her? So I'm just saying it's a little more complex than saying either or yes or no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150821	Thank you, and that concludes the question. We thank the questioner, Mrs Karina Due, and move on to the next question put to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, and co-author Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150837	Thank you. Will the Minister follow the example of the Dutch Parliament and find a solution so that Danish nationals with their place of birth abroad can be identified as their place of birth, as the place of birth in their passports and driving licences, regardless of the current official name of the place of birth?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220150901	Thank you for the question. As you know, the question of the indication of the place of birth in passports has been dealt with several times in the Folketing. It is also a matter that I have had the opportunity to debate with both authors in the past. The issue of driving licences belongs to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, so I will deal with the issue of passports. When it comes to passports, it is crucial for me that there is maximum security around identification documents and that there is uniform and correct information in our systems. Therefore, I do not believe that the current guidelines for indicating the place of birth registration in Danish passports should be changed. The current guidelines were introduced in 2012 and they imply that the indication of the birth registration place in a passport is automatically retrieved from the birth registration place field of the CPR. As the questioners know, for example. Palestine is not indicated as the place of birth of the CPR, but the CPR may be indicated on application, e.g. The Middle East instead of Israel as a birth registration point, and I think that is a good arrangement. The current guidelines were first introduced in order to indicate information equally across different systems and secondly in order to reduce the risk of manual errors. Where it is important for information to be given equally across different systems, this is also linked to the fact that otherwise doubts could arise as to the correctness of the updated information. There may also be doubts as to whether the citizen is the person whom he or she pretends to be, and that is not acceptable at all when we talk about such a central document as our passport. I recognise that this is an issue that can arouse strong feelings, but for me, as Minister of Justice, it is still crucial that there is maximum certainty about identification documents and about their use.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151052	Yes, what if the Minister could not be allowed to call himself Jyde or Dane? You know all about what it could mean just to be able to call yourself a European or a world citizen or something like that. This is an old issue that we have discussed, and I thought we agreed that there are no security problems in finding a more pragmatic solution. I also thought we agreed that there are in fact today different information in the same person's passport and driving licence in a number of cases around the country of origin, and that it is therefore not true that there is systematic in it in the way the Minister describes it. That is why we have asked whether we could compare with other countries and it turns out that there are widely differing practices, which means that what is in the passports, for neighbouring countries or for the countries to which you are going, is of no practical significance. Besides, the place of birth is not the place of birth you use at all, because you use the iris image, or you use fingerprints, or you use a CPR number. This is the way to identify people, and thus this is only a bureaucratic obstacle that these citizens could get a feeling that they might still have left where they come from. I think that is a pity because we have now been through this whole process. I would like to say that we have had three consultations, we have had a major study in which we have asked neighbouring countries, and I think it is time that the Minister was a little bit dynamic and a little soft and then found a pragmatic solution for these people. It is not right for the public authorities to continue to harass people in this way in a bureaucratic way. Then I would like Israel to be emphasised once and for all, because Israel has no authority in the West Bank, Israel has no authority in Gaza and East Jerusalem. Ergo, they can't even get the right location when they're born in this area. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether Israel could at least be underlined as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151256	This question, which may actually seem so simple, on which we have had three consultations, and which also involves various ministers and different political groups, does of course mean that we have a discussion about who is doing what. I understand that you are asking why we are not just doing one thing or the other. This is very simple, because if I hold on to it, and I do that, you transfer data from the CPR to the pass it is one-tier, and it is to deal with it all depends only on whether you want to make a country code in the CPR register, which for example. It is called Palestine, if that is what you want, and it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior who can say yes or no to it. I cannot stand here and deal with foreign policy on various issues about Israel or not Israel and Palestine. It doesn't belong to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151353	Yes, but that is simply a bad excuse, since we have had three ministers in the same consultation, and the ministers had to decide when they took the floor, they had to decide for themselves who should give the answers to the questions we asked. We didn't get a clear message there either. We only got the clear out of it and the minister even nodded when we concluded that there are no security issues in this. It has in the past been managed in such a way that it was left open and thus wrote what the citizen wanted or could document as his seat. You can, for example. also write a city name. That's what you do, for example. in my passport. It is not Denmark that writes a city name, it is not the real city name, it is a city name, it is an open field and it is an open practice, and that is why it is bureaucratic game fighting on the part of the government if you do not choose to say that here we can be a little bit pragmatic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151447	I just need to remind you to keep an eye on the stopwatch on the desk. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151450	Thank you. I'll try that too. It's hard, because it's bad for short remarks, this. But I do understand that you may want a special name to be used as the place of birth, but perhaps we should just ask each other what the purpose of a passport is ■ now I should not relate to the driving licence, but to the passport and that is that the passport serves as a travel document for Danish citizens, so that the authorities have the opportunity to secure and verify their identity. And, of course, this is about our systems playing together, so what you have registered in the CPR is also related to what we record in the pass. I think that makes sense. I know we look at this differently, but I think it makes sense that the two systems are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151534	Then the questioner steps back a little, because now the ride has come to the co-questioner, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative, which has 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151540	Thank you. We've talked about this many times with both the Minister of Justice and other ministers. The Minister of Justice keeps on mentioning security, but this must basically be about bureaucracy, because how else can we approve papers issued in Holland, for example, when they can use different names and not these country codes we know about? How can we approve it in terms of safety if it is a security issue, as the Minister mentioned in his first reply? And if it does not concern security, but indeed pure bureaucracy, how can the Minister defend that bureaucracy when it goes against people who feel violated and harassed in this way? Why does the Minister not think we should have a fight with this kind of bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151629	Paragraph 1: The Dutch question, which also came up here, is a little difficult for me to answer, at least in this context, about the specific case in the Netherlands. I can explain this in writing; it is very difficult to stand here and do so. Paragraph 2: If you feel it insulting that there should be something specific in your passport, or that you do not have the place of birth that is important to you, then there is one way you can solve it here in the Folketing, and that is by the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior says how to register in the CPR. If there is a majority in the Folketing that says that there should be this country code and that option, then that is what is political majority in favour, if we now say that it should just not see that as I see it. There have been other challenges in this case. Therefore, I find it hard to see that I, as Minister of Justice, should say: Write what you want in your passport, we don't care about that; what it says in the CPR or in the passport doesn't matter. We do agree that a document must have the highest level of security that can be obtained at all. And I think that is provided by dragging the information from the same database.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151745	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151746	But again, the security issue keeps jumping back and forth. Because if we can fully recognise it in Dutch papers, for example, you can change between different names, which are not very descriptive, then this is not a security issue, but a purely bureaucracy. That is what I think the Minister really has to say: does the Minister really believe that it is fair in the society we live in today, with all the opportunities we have digitally, that bureaucracy must get in the way when citizens have repeatedly reported that this is something they have a problem with? It is both citizens from Palestine, but also citizens from other places who have raised this problem, and that is what we have talked about in consultation. So should bureaucracy stand in the way of citizens in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151827	I shall not in any way advocate bureaucracy. Now it's the questioner's interpretation that this is just pure bureaucracy. So, can we not trust documents from other countries if there are different rules? I heard a bit asked about it. I feel like we have to rely on that, at least I do that each country has a security around their travel documents, of course, because where else are we if we can't trust it? And that is where I think we as Danes, as Danish authorities, should make every effort to ensure that what we have in our documents is at least accurate and correct, and that there is no risk of errors being opened up because some systems are just being run manually instead of being transferred to each other. I hear we don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151907	Thanks to the co-author. We shall return to the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220151911	I'd like to come back to the insulting thing. It is of course insulting that as a Palestinian born before 1948, when Israel did not even exist, one should have standing, that one was born in Israel. You're notoriously not. It is obvious that this is offensive. When we have agreed at a meeting after a meeting that there is no problem for third countries in what is in the passport, in terms of place of birth, because it is quite different places to check people, and that is where the optimum security is, when there are no problems in the European Union, where there are different practices in different countries, and when there is a country that has introduced the term West Bank, Gaza or East Jerusalem, then the Danish authorities must also live with it when Dutch people come to Denmark. That's why I don't understand. I agree that this is only a bureaucratic issue, and I think that the Minister should lift himself out of the role of defending bureaucracy and looking instead at the citizens who may benefit from a slightly more gullible way of doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152011	Thank you. Paragraph 1: You can at least write on the Middle East, but I understand that so you can say it is not okay. But you can have it; you can pray for it. Paragraph 2: You can then choose to do something else. Well, if sir... Christian Juhl can convince the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior that there has to be a code in the CPR called Palestine, Gaza, or whatever it should be, and that then it is in the CPR register, then it will also be in the passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152035	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. That concludes the question. The next question (pm. No. S 525) is addressed to the Minister for Defence by Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152046	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152047	Thank you very much. How can the government defend allowing the defence budget to rise again when, at the same time, welfare, climate and development are being cut, and how does the Minister expect the extra billion for defence to be spent?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152105	In the interests of safety, I would like to repeat the first part of the question: how can the government defend allowing the defence budget to rise again when, at the same time, welfare, climate and development are being cut? If we take the Ministry of Finance's economic analysis of the development of public expenditure from 2000 to 2017, it appears that overall public consumption increased by 83.25 billion. kr. in 2017 prices. This can be attributed to health, where expenditure has increased by 50 billion. kr., corresponding to an increase of 43%, to the education sector, where expenditure has increased by 12 billion. DKK, corresponding to an increase of approx. 14 per cent, and to the social area, where expenditure has increased by approx. 18 billion kr., corresponding to an increase of 161⁄2%. If we look at defence, consumption expenditure on defence has fallen by 111⁄4 per cent, or 3.5 billion. kr. in the period from 2000 to 2010 and by 833/4 per cent, corresponding to 2.25 billion. kr. From 2010 to 2017. If we look at climate, the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate has highlighted in their climate policy statement that the government has raised the Danish climate effort for developing countries through a climate pool, which in 2019 is record high, of 540 billion. kr., and that is on top of the amount that has been stable over the years, of 1.3 billion. kr. If we take development aid, OECD Development Co-operation Peer Reviews show how developments have been from 1999 to 2015, and there we can see that we are meeting the UN's objectives, and the cost of development aid in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is 12.8 billion. kr. It is just to clarify the premise of this question, and it is quite clear that there has been an increase in the expenditure mentioned by the questioner and that there has been a reduction in the cost of defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152347	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152349	We may look at the premise quite differently in that we can say that we have a situation now where there is a lack of money for welfare. It is also about the fact that there have been many more older people, and it is about the fact that there are many more children and there is simply a need for money to close that gap. I don't think the government does. The government itself lacks 1.2 billion. kr. to close the gap in the health issue, but at the same time you can find an extra 1.5 billion. kr. to the defense. This extra 1.5 billion. kr. As the Secretary of Defense announced a few weeks ago to meet Donald Trump's demand for higher military spending, one has to say that last year this government and the defence committee came up with an historic increase in the Danish defence budget, and I assume that the Secretary of Defense will acknowledge that. At any rate, this was something that we went out and said very clearly at the time, which means that every year we spend several billion more on defence than we have done before. I just think it is interesting that we are in a situation where 1.5 billion can be found. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done in this area. After all, there is nowhere else where, in relation to public budgets, you just go out and find money like that, and it is not even clear what you are going to spend it on yet. Nor have I heard the Secretary of Defense give a clear answer as to what these extra funds for the military are to be spent on. I know that the Danish People's Party and Conservatives would like to spend some more money on fighter planes. I also know that it has been promised in the past that this money, which should otherwise go to welfare because it comes from the room, should not be used for the fighters. So I would like to hear that from the Secretary of Defense as well. My view is that it is not a good investment to raise the cost of the military in this way, but I would like to hear the Secretary of Defense quite specifically: what is this money actually for?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152549	It is perfectly legitimate to be a pacifist and would not spend money on defence. I'm not gonna interfere with that at all. It's for Enhedslisten's own account. However, I am concerned that we can have an issue that is basically completely wrong, namely how we can defend allowing the defence budget to rise again when, at the same time, welfare, climate and development are being cut and where we can demonstrate that there has been no reduction in that area during this long period. This isn't a fair debate, because it's just sloshing out. I recognise that Mrs Eva Flyvholm I do not know what to use in terms of terms • despises everything that has to do with military and wants a really, really peaceful world where we can walk around on flowers. But you can at least try to be a little honest in your questions, and there is no link between spending more money on defence towards 2023 and what Mrs Flyvholm is asking here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152659	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152700	I have to say that, of course, I want a more peaceful world, but that does not make me a pacifist. It also means that I can see that there may be some legitimate defence costs, but what is going on here is an insanely dangerous arms race that is being put into arms. A great deal has been raised last year and again this year because Trump says more money to the military, and the Secretary of Defense will not even consider how this money is going to be spent. I think this is quite unreasonable, and it is precisely in a context where we lack money for welfare and where, by the way, less money is spent in this government on development than has been done in the past and where much worse climate action is being made. The Secretary of Defense must be able to relate to that too. Then you can juggle the figures as it is, but frankly: I think the Secretary of Defense owes an explanation as to why it's fair to spend this 1.5 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152755	But listen to me: The cost of defence has fallen from 2000 to 2017 by 5.75 billion. kr., and in all the other areas it has increased. So the question itself is absurd, because the money for the defence has not been taken from anywhere. It's cut down on top of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152817	So the money, this extra 1.5 billion. kr., which was found for the defense right here recently, has not been taken from the economic space? Or how am I supposed to understand that? Otherwise, that is what is quite clear, including from the government's own papers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152835	But it is quite true that 1.5 billion will be taken in 2023. kr. extra for the defense. That was exactly my point).
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152845	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Secretary of Defense. That concludes the question. The next question has been put to the Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities by Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152857	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152858	Thank you for that, President. The question is: Does the Minister believe that, on the basis of the information contained in the article, which has the title "Previous Minister', there is reason to believe that the former Minister was involved in the process of granting generational change fire?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152923	Thank you. I have no reason to think anything at this stage about the progress in the allocation of generational fire, and certainly not on the basis of an article in Berlingske. But I have asked the Attorney General to go into an investigation into what has happened in this process, and when I know the results of the investigation, I will of course make sure to inform about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220152951	Thank you. I do not know why Berlingske should be highlighted as particularly problematic in this context. But the reason why I am raising the matter here is that the fisherman in question, who has been the focal point of the generational fire case, speaks out both to TV 2 News and to Berlingske and elsewhere that the process with his eyes took place in such a way that he applied for generational fire at the Danish Fisheries Authority, and that it was not met because he was late for deadline, the application deadline. In his own words, he will contact the then minister in this area, probably via Messenger, as far as I am aware, and complain about not being able to be taken into consideration because of the deadline. To this the fisherman thinks so and that is the information that has come to light that the minister signs and that he will see it. Shortly thereafter, the fisherman is contacted by the control officer concerned at that time, and the matter will then be resolved, and it will end up with the fisherman having access to generational fire. If that is the case, it is a very serious matter, potentially at least if there has been ministerial involvement in the matter. That is why, of course, my follow-up question is also whether there are any documents or other material in the Ministry which would document the course that the fisherman has presented to the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153125	I have taken note of the various statements that have been made in the press, and I think it is very important that we examine this matter. What has happened in this area at all? Why have these generational fires been awarded? In order to get to the bottom of the matter and the area as such, what I have asked the Attorney General to go in and investigate the area, and I will not comment further on it until that investigation has been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153158	Yes, but there are different reasons for it anyway. So now we are in the Chamber and the Minister is asked whether the Minister believes that there is reason to believe that the minister at the time was involved, and the Minister is asked whether the Ministry has any documents to document such a course, and I think that one could answer that. We could then have done our best to see if this was the case. So just again: do you have documents showing that the former minister has been involved in this process? And as an additional question: will the study to which the Minister refers include the question of the Minister's involvement in the matter? Will it be part of that investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153236	In other words, whatever documents are available in the case will appear in the course of the investigation. So, yes, what can help clarify what has happened will, of course, be included, and that is part of the study, and therefore I do not know what documents are currently available. That's one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153314	I still need answers as to whether the investigation initiated by the Minister involves the involvement of the former minister in the matter. I think that is relevant, because the answer does not make sense if the question of the Minister's involvement in the matter is not revealed in that study. So I would ask the Minister to confirm that. We must then also be able to ask questions in this Chamber and also get a full answer where the relevant information is presented. That is why I have just to conclude again the question whether the Minister believes that there are documents which document the claim made by the fisherman.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153352	I am simply not in a position at this stage to reply to what documents are in the case. I've asked the DA to do an investigation in this area because I think it's important that we get around thoroughly and in depth in relation to this whole field of generational fire. In relation to the question of whether the former minister in this area has known about the matter or been involved in the matter, it will, I believe, be part of the inquiry into the matter, in particular the quotations made by Mr Beazley. Simon Kollerup himself contributed about what has been publicly promoted by the fisherman, who among other things. is affected by the investigation into this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153436	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. That concludes the question. The next question (pm. No. S 507) is addressed to the Minister for Health by Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153509	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153511	Thank you for that, President. The question is: With Odense University Hospital as the centre of the health community on Funen and with a board in Aarhus with decision-making competence, can the Minister guarantee that the government's health reform will not mean fewer departments and functions at the hospitals in Nyborg, Svendborg and the hospital unit at Ærø?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153526	Thank you for the question, which is, after all, similar to many of the questions about hospitals that I have received from other socialists since the government presented the health reform in mid-January. One might think that the Socialists have decided to take the country's hospitals one by one, because we are at least going through many of them here in the Chamber on Wednesday's question and in consultation. Therefore, allow me to repeat some of what I have said earlier, for I am tempted to think that the Socialists are trying to whip up such an insecurity atmosphere around the country and create insecurity among citizens that local hospitals are threatened with closure as a result of government health reform. That, of course, may also be the level at which we are discussing it. I just think it would be good if we could sort of deal with what is actually being proposed. That is why my answer will also be the same as I have already said, namely that the government, with the reform of health, is not proposing to change the planned hospital structure. If you look at the map on page 57 of the government's proposal, you will also see that both the matrics on Ærø, in Svendborg and in Nyborg are drawn into the health community that will be on Funen. And the government's health reform does not change the planned hospital structure. That is not what we are focusing on as a government at all. What we focus on is to create more proximity and to move more treatments closer to where people live, because there are a lot of people who end up moving very far today, and if you live at Ærø, you can be far into Odense University Hospital. There are a large number of functions that we can see today do not necessarily have to lie in the large specialised hospitals, but may as well lie out with our own doctor, in municipal health houses or out in some of the smaller hospitals, so they get closer to the citizens. So our desire is to create more proximity in our health services and better coherence with the creation of the 21 health communities, to have the quality raised, but also to have a commitment across the country, so that as a citizen you experience the same high standard in health services across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153737	I am sorry to the Minister if it is the case that the Minister thinks that we have asked too many questions about this here, but we have been elected in different parts of the country, which is why it is clear that we obviously have different interests to look at what might happen in our local area. I would like to ask the Minister a question about what is in the government's own proposal, namely that in the new organisation the regional health task will have a more operational character. That task shall not be the subject of political disagreements. As soon as the government's proposals become reality, we are, after all, removing the political link, the regional councils. What the government seems to be problematic is that there may be political disagreement about the health tasks and how they should be solved. I now believe that political disagreement often strengthens the debate and maybe strengthen the outcome of the debate that may be associated with disagreement. At the same time, the government also praises the regions for the work that has actually been done, so I would like to ask the question: why does the government really have more confidence that a politically appointed board can handle the operation of hospitals better in the future than regional councils, as we know them today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220153859	Thank you for the question. The questioner certainly does not have to apologize for taking the questions. I just found that we are gradually being around all the hospitals in Denmark with these questions, and that is why my answer will also be the same on some points, namely that the government's health reform does not change the hospital structure in Denmark, and that is why it is perhaps also a little remarkable to see that there are social democrats who, like touring around in local media and saying that people now have to fear for the local hospital when that is not the case. That is why, of course, it is a wonderful opportunity to clarify it. What we write in the reform of health is that in some areas it is about health professional standards and also that it must be nationally anchored, what quality we want, and then it should not subsequently be the subject of a political discussion elsewhere. If we in the Folketing have agreed on what the objectives of the services, for example, are. the ambulances should be, we should not have a discussion in different regions about whether it is okay for fewer ambulances to arrive quickly in one region than they do in the neighbouring region. After all, it is a question of what should be anchored nationally and what should be anchored locally in our health services in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154005	I would ask you to keep an eye on the stopwatch as far as speaking time is concerned. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154009	I am listening to the fact that this means that the priorities of the future health service must take place in Aarhus and at Christiansborg, otherwise what the minister says here will not hold water. There must be uniformity and local conditions should not be taken into account. It has to disappear according to the argument that the minister has just used, and that means that it is in Aarhus and here at Christiansborg that the priorities of the future health service must take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154042	No, it doesn't mean that, but there are some things that we are moving up at national level, and then there are a lot of things that we are moving out locally in the near health care system. That is why we create 21 health communities, and in my introduction I tried to tell you a little about the health community that comes on Funen and that will of course accommodate the hospitals in Odense, in Svendborg, in Nyborg and on Ærø. It is important to say that there are a lot of decisions moving out there, but when it comes, for example. If we in the Danish Parliament have decided that the citizens have some patients' rights, then we do not think it is okay that in the various regions it is the subject of a debate on whether or not they should now be respected. Of course, patients' rights must be respected, and this is actually where we say that it is at national level, in other words that patients' rights must be respected throughout the country. It should not be the subject of a political debate in five regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154136	The proposal also states that the new health services should instead ensure health care and efficient operation of hospitals. I would like to ask the Minister: does this mean that the way in which the regions operate hospitals today is not effective? If you are to drive them even more efficiently, there is a risk that you will have to close down some of the smaller hospital departments, otherwise I find it hard to understand how to get more efficient operation just because you make some health care units instead of having the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154210	I think it has to be said that there is a very large difference between how well-managed our hospitals are • how strong the professional management is in the hospitals, how good you are at taking care of the employees, ensuring that the planning of the tasks is done in a sensible way, so that there is time for the patients, and so that the employees feel that they are spending their time on the core task and do not end up running at the root of some functions that should actually be managed in a different way. It is because not everywhere is the case that there is a complete focus on the hospital management task. We are thus freeing up both time and effort and focus with the health reform, because we are moving a large number of other tasks, both locally and nationally, so that you can concentrate more on creating a strong operation of our hospitals for the benefit of patients and employees in the Danish healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154252	Thank you to the questioner. Thank you to the Minister for Health. That concludes the question. The next question (pm. No. S 519) is addressed to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party, and he has a fellow questioner with him. This is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154310	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154312	Thank you. The question is: is it the Minister's view that Movia is fulfilling its responsibility to ensure mobility throughout Zealand through public transport when the transport company has removed printed information about bus routes and departure times from the stops on Zealand?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154331	Thank you for that question. I have also noted that the transport company Movia has chosen to take the physical timetables down to the Zealand bus stops and instead to invest in a more digital dissemination of bus traffic information. I understand that people, for example older citizens, who do not use digital solutions to the same extent, may experience it as frustrating that a service that has been used to is no longer offered. That said, it is the management board of the transport company which is generally responsible for the actions of the transport company, including how the provision of traffic information takes place. The responsible board has been appointed by the municipalities and regions concerned. I have confidence in our local democracy, which is reflected in this case by taking local responsibility for how the task of communicating public bus traffic should be handled. I think that is basically a good principle that we must safeguard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154430	Well, it's good to have some good principles. I just think that the Minister is putting the responsibility a little bit on some boards appointed in the individual municipalities. In particular, the group of citizens, who may not be so digitally oriented, does not learn about bus times by the fact that the Minister like wiping this off on some boards and on some transport companies. Then you can almost only look forward to them perhaps playing a smaller role in the future. But that time, that joy. Does the Minister not think that this is an area in which the Minister of Transport might well go in and say that we must ensure that the large group of older citizens also have the opportunity to inform themselves about bus times?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154520	I'm not wiping off any responsibility. Sir. Kim Christiansen knows very well that it is the law that prescribes that the responsibility lies on the board and that the board is not appointed by me, but is appointed by the municipalities and regions that are part of the transport company. So there's no drying off. Well, it's a law, like Mr. Simpson. Kim Christiansen and Dansk Folkeparti support that says that the responsibility lies there. Then you should not come here in the Folketing and say that it is now suddenly the Minister's responsibility, under the law, who has no responsibility. I think, sir. Kim Christiansen must ask his party colleague from the Danish People's Party, who sits on Movia's board of directors, why that decision has been made. Well, that'd be a good way for Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen to exert influence on asking his party colleague from the Danish People's Party why this party member has been involved in making that decision. I don't have any party partners on Movia's board.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154612	Well, I'd like to ask you on occasion. But now we are talking about Question Time in this House, and there is the Minister we are asking. I'm just calling for a position from the Minister. I know the law and so on. But could it be that we should look at it? Should we change something? There are 260,000 people who are not on the digital. The Minister's colleague is aware that there is a large group of older people who cannot stand and text, etc. And by the way, what if you have no power on your phone? There is, of course, a problem here which I perhaps do not think the Minister is entirely related to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154655-2	Well, I note that in Denmark we have a local democracy, that we have local and regional autonomy, and that some decisions by law have been made with municipalities and regions. And the responsibility for the regional transport company is something that has been laid down by law with municipalities and regions. Unless you want to change the law and say that yes, they should stand for it, but that it is up to the Folketing to decide how to spread information about when the bus goes, then I think the Danish People's Party must say that they stand by the law that it is the municipalities and the regions that are responsible for this and that they accept that it is they who make the decisions. You may disagree, or you may agree, but first of all Mr. Kim Christiansen went to his party member on Movia's board of directors and asked him why he helped make that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154752	Then the questioner steps back, so we have room for questioning Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154758	Thank you. Yeah, it can be hard to get the minister's own opinion out of this. The Minister said that the Minister had made a note and the Minister had an understanding of it. But it is the case today that there are 210,000 elderly people who are not on the digital, so I would like to hear the Minister's own position on this. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that there are no longer plans that people can see, even when you consider that 210,000 elderly people are not on the digital in today's Denmark? Does the Minister not also consider it reasonable to send that signal because the Minister is Minister for Transport that this should of course be taken into account? Then it may well be that the Minister says it is in all sorts of places and not with the Minister, but the Minister can send a signal, and the Minister can also contact Movia to see if they are going to make this right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154901	I think I can say that if there were 210,000 elderly people who did not know when the bus went, but went down to the bus stop and there would in future be cut off from finding out when the bus left, then I would think it was a problem that there is not on the stand when the bus leaves. But the older people I know who use a bus have typically not used the booth to be informed when the bus leaves. They know when they leave home, when the bus leaves, and they leave at a certain time because they know that the bus arrives 10 minutes later so they can get down to the bus. I am not aware of the extent to which older people are guided by the booth rather than informing themselves about bus departure times before leaving home. Therefore, I am not aware of how much an advantage it is for older people that it stands on the stand itself, rather than that it is in the folder that they have at home where they can see the bus departure times. That's why I don't want to be smart about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220154958	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155000	But am I to understand that the Minister does not have a position on this? It is the case when you read the articles that have been that there is also an accessibility forum that the board has not contacted, precisely to hear the Elders Case and the disabled organisations about this issue. They have not been consulted, and they have not been consulted. And it is still the case that the Elders Case says that there are 210,000 elderly people who do not have digital accessibility. So what is the Minister's position: does the Minister consider it reasonable, or does the Minister consider it unreasonable, that the timetables can no longer be seen and that they are not available to everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155048	The best attitudes are those based on a knowledge of the matter, and I am not sure whether the many elderly people who use buses only inform themselves about the departure times of the bus when they get to the stop, or whether they really know everything about when the bus leaves before they go to the stop. Because I don't have that knowledge, I can't get a proper attitude about it. However, I have great confidence in local democracy, in the municipalities being able to find a way of choosing the right politicians and in the regions being able to choose the right politicians, and these are the ones who make up the board in Movia. There's one of them. a member of the Danish People's Party. Now I could understand Mr. Kim Christiansen, that he had not spoken to Dansk Folkeparti's member of Movia's board of directors. However, I would invite Mrs Karina Adsbøl to speak to the Danish People's Party member on the board of Movia and ask why he has been involved in making such a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155140	Thanks to the co-author. Then I give the floor again to the questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155145	Now it is good that the Minister has found out that there is a DF member on that board. I can promise the Minister that I will speak to our board member in Movia, because I think it is a foolish decision that has been made. I dare say that here, even though it is one of my own party members. Now we've had a lot of good conversations about different things. We talked about taxi. I know that the Minister is very innovative and would like to see progress and digital solutions, digital travel cards and so on. It should also be borne in mind that there is therefore a group of citizens who are not there for this. They want to be able to buy their tickets and their clipboards, and they want to be able to see when they stand at the bus stop, when the last bus leaves, or they want to sit at home at the kitchen table with their bus timetable. In my time, when I was taking buses, there was always one on the bus you could take home with you. Should we not consider whoever is on the boards and who is responsible? Then we have to change the law if people sit and make foolish decisions. But does the Minister not think that this group of citizens should be taken into account? This is, of course, something that is being phased out over time quite naturally. We're not supposed to go here forever. But there's a large group of people right now who are exposed to this and see it as a big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155314	I fully agree with the principle that Mr. Kim Christiansen describes that when large groups of people are still away in Denmark, who are not fully on the digital, then in his communication from everything that is public and semi-public, one must take into account that they must also be able to obtain the information. I fully agree with that principle. And I think it's healthy to get that principle back up. I know that the Danish People's Party has a large part of the credit for maintaining that principle in all kinds of decisions in here, and I think that is meritworthy. What I am just saying is that I do not know to what extent the elderly who have to drive the bus are unaware of when the bus leaves when they leave home. The fact that you imagine that an 80-year-old lady goes down to the bus stop and has no idea at all when the bus leaves before she leaves home, but only when she looks at the information board at the bus stop may not be a performance that matches the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155413	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is also put to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Kim Christiansen, Dansk Folkeparti, with Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti, who enquires.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155427	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155428	Thank you. It's gonna be a little the same song again. The question is: does the Minister agree that the many elderly people are abandoned, who are not familiar with digital technology, and for whom public transport is the primary way to move around when Denmark's largest transport company, Movia, removes printed information about bus routes and departure times from the stops on Zealand?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155449	Thank you for the question. As I said in my answer to the previous question, I understand that people, including older citizens, who do not use digital solutions to the same extent, may experience it as frustrating that a service that has been used to is no longer offered. As also mentioned in my previous reply, it is the board of directors of the transport company, appointed by the municipalities and regions concerned, which determines how public bus services are determined and disseminated. I can see the challenges in the case and understand the frustration. But that doesn't change the fact that it's Movia's table. I note, moreover, that according to the daily press, Movia's board of directors is considering the matter, including whether the physical timetables should be hung up again. Once again, Movia is free to decide this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155536	Thank you. Now, in the last answer to the previous question, the Minister mentioned the example of an 80-year-old lady standing at the bus stop and perhaps should have known from home when the bus was going. I am not 80 years old yet, but I also appreciate the fact that when I stand at the bus stop, I can see how long it takes. It may be that I know from home that the bus is probably going around there, because otherwise I wouldn't have gone down to the stop. But I still find it reassuring. It could also be that you just came by the stop without really knowing when the next bus was going. Well, then it's nice to be able to find out. Now I come from Jutland, and there is a long way between departure times, so it's nice enough to know a little in advance about when the next bus is going. But legislation or not legislation, could the Minister have an interest in us perhaps looking at whether this competence should lie with Movia or whether it should perhaps be on a slightly higher level, precisely in order to accommodate that group of older citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155642	I certainly think that this is a competence that should lie with local democracy. I also believe that if what comes out of the debate that has taken place in recent days about the decision of Movia is a general understanding in Movia's area that a decision has been taken that was not right, then I also believe that Movia's board of directors will change the decision and go back to the old system. But if Movia's board of directors, for example... Dansk Folkeparti's member of the board of directors has good arguments for making that decision, so it may be that it can also influence the matter in other ways. After all, in all these debates there are different considerations to take into account. The question for me is whether we dare to leave it to local democracy to weigh these considerations, or whether we here from Christiansborg think we should decide something about information boards for the departure of buses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155739	You can discuss this. Now we're discussing this whole angle of it, that is, that such a certain and very large group of the Danish population feels they don't have the opportunity to get the information they need. That is the one thing we are discussing. I don't know what Movia's motives have been for doing this. Maybe the Minister doesn't know that either. But if that is economic considerations, is it something that we can somehow do something about? is it because you feel pressured financially out in the regions and the transport companies, or is it just because you think this new technology is kind of clever to be involved in, and you miss a large population?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155825	I can't say that, but things change in our society. Sir. Kim Christiansen and I have been involved in deciding that we should no longer have emergency telephones along the motorways, because most people today are driving around with a mobile phone. But I suppose there are still people who do not have a mobile phone in the car and, for their sake, should the emergency telephones be maintained along the motorways? Our assessment back then was that the need was no longer so great that the cost was too high in relation to the small need. That's why the emergency phones were shut down. It must be the kind of thinking that has been done in Movia too. But again, I am quite sure that you can make the right decisions about this sort of thing locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155905	Then I give the floor to the co-questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155909	Thank you. I still find it strange that our Minister for Transport does not have a position or an opinion on this. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister would at least agree that it is a service deterioration when Denmark's largest transport company Movia removes printed information about bus routes and departure times at stops on Zealand. Perhaps the Minister can agree with the Danish People's Party that it is a loss of service that this is precisely removed? Perhaps the Minister could also get a little closer to the Minister's own opinion, because this is certainly not about the number of elderly people. There is also, for example. tourists who come from outside and may need to look at a bus plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220155959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160000	I agree with the Danish People's Party that, in isolation, removing the road map from the bus stop is a service deterioration. But if it is combined with other measures, for example. that you have a better supply of printed timetables, which are sent to the citizens' homes, or something like that you could imagine, then the overall picture may well be a service improvement. But I am not aware of that, and that is also the point here, namely that it is a decision taken by local democracy. And the question is whether you have confidence in local democracy in the question of whether you should announce driving times at the bus stop, or you think that local democracy cannot figure out how to make such decisions, why we in Christiansborg will have to intervene here. That is also a question. And I have confidence in local democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160055	We did not come closer to the Minister's position or opinion on it. Having said that, however, the Minister has confidence in local democracy. After all, the minister is also a politician, and if the Minister sees that there are some absurdities or things that can be done better, then I suppose it is also the case that, as a minister, you want to take it up and take up the dialogue on it and not just say that that decision does not concern me. Then you are also a politician and you want to make a difference. That's why we're in the Folketing. The Minister acknowledges that this is a deterioration in services, but does the Minister intend to do more in this area, in terms of ensuring accessibility forward-looking, in relation to when we talk about other transport areas as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160142	There are different ways of being a politician. One way of being a politician is to say that all decisions which one might think could be taken differently are entitled to interfere in, and one must overrule those who have made the decision, whether it be private or people in local democracy. Because you sit at Christiansborg, you have to decide everything in principle. It's a way to be a politician. Another way is to say that we have some power divisions in this society. The municipalities decide something, the regions decide something, the citizens decide something for themselves. Just because we here at Christiansborg would have done things differently, it is not certain that we have the right to decide everything in this society, because people also have the right to have a freedom. Municipalities have the right to freedom, citizens have the right to freedom. That is another way of being a politician, and that is the way I am a politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160226	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Then we return to the main questioner, sir. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160230	Thank you. It's for the Minister's comments on emergency phones. I don't think there are 210,000 drivers who don't own a cell phone. I can't believe that. Therefore, the problem is probably somewhat smaller than in this case, where we are talking about the opportunities for older people to see when the bus arrives and when it leaves. I'm just seeing this as a huge loss of service. When we talk about emergency phones, it made sense to shut them down because virtually everyone has a cell phone today. When we talk about service deterioration in public transport, there is also the fact that a lot of toilets have been laid down at DSB's stations.I know that this is a completely different talk but it isn't because people have stopped going to the bathroom. I just think that the service in public transport is constantly being reduced by this measure, which directly affects 210,000 elderly citizens who are not digital. But it might be that you hit someone else who has run out of power on your phone or who has forgotten it at home. So just to the Minister's assumption that Movia might want to change this: is it a feeling, or is it something that the Minister has heard like this on the water pipes? That's a little interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160356	I can only say in the press that various members of Movia's board have said that it will be taken up again at a board meeting. So I guess that's what you want to do. This suggests that it will be discussed to see whether you still think what you thought when you made the decision or whether, under the impression of the debate that has taken place, you seem something else. I am therefore very confident that you can find out about this locally and that we do not need to give them guidelines here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160421	With that, we thank Mr. Kim Christiansen, and we thank the Minister. The next question (pm. No. S 521) is for the Minister for the Elderly, and it is Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democrat, who is the questioner, and the questioner is Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160440	Mrs Skovsby has the floor to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160447	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable to weaken the elderly in Assens Municipality because of savings now can only get cleaning every five weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160502	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160505	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that cleaning every five weeks and no floor washing is, in my opinion, incompatible with dignified care for elderly people who are dependent on help in order to be able to cope with everyday life. So, no, personally, I do not think it is fair if that is the standard of the aid offered to the weakened elderly in a municipality. I do not think I can think of anyone for whom cleaning every five weeks and where even floor washing is completely looped will suffice. Just think about what would look like in our own home if that was the standard. Personally, therefore, I do not think that cleaning every five weeks can be regarded as a real offer of help to these elderly people. After all, they are elderly people who, for one reason or another, are unable to carry out their own tasks. From day one, as Minister for the Elderly, I have been concerned about ensuring a proper framework in the area of the elderly so that the elderly in the country can receive dignified care for the elderly. Together with the Danish People's Party, the government has given the elderly area a significant boost in the financial laws of recent years. The 2018 Finance Act set aside 2.7 billion. kr. This year's budget has once again ensured a high priority for the elderly. Let me just mention the annual dignity billion for the municipalities as well as 0.5 billion. kr. for better staffing in the municipalities. Those are the means, such as: The municipality of Assen has also received a share of. For me, good care for the elderly is characterised by focusing on dignity and on the individual needs of the individual elderly. And I believe that with the significant priorities of the elderly area in recent years, there is a good basis for the municipalities to be able to provide good and dignified care for the elderly based on the needs of the individual elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160653	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160654	Thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Minister for the Elderly says that she does not consider it a real offer and that the Minister does not consider it worthy, because neither do I, and I do not think it appropriate. So says the mayor of Assen's municipality, that it is utterly unworthy. And the chairman of the Elders' Council has said a lot of very clever things in this course that has been going on and says, among other things: You simply cannot offer anyone that they only get cleaned up every five weeks. But when the Minister says that a significant boost has been made, then I get worried. Then I get worried about the reality that I meet at Funen and in Assen's Municipality, because it is not in accordance with what the Minister says. The fact is that in Assens Municipality right now there are some huge savings in day-homes • it's cleaning, it's floor-washing and in nursing homes it's nursing and number of night shifts etc. So when the economy does not keep up, I have to ask the Minister whether what the Minister has seen now with these quality standards in Assens Municipality is a reality that the Minister can recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160852	I simply do not recognise that you do not have the economy to be able to get better ways of cleaning up in Assen's municipality. Among other things: We have sent money from the government, together with the Danish People's Party, with which we always have good cooperation, so they have simply received just over 13 million. kr. In addition to what else they get, among other things. from the dignity billion, which they have received 8 million or just under 9 million. kr. from, and from the manning funds. So I simply do not recognise that that is what this is all about. But there is local government autonomy, and different priorities are given to it. But I don't recognise that Assens Municipality has chosen this approach because they have no option to choose anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220160944	I don't think there are any councilmen who think this situation is funny. It hurts when you have to cut so much. And what the mayor says is that the reason for the decision lies in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs and in the Ministry of Finance. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister has been in contact with his colleagues and has spoken about the Assens case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161020	If it is about the challenge of municipal equalisation, then it is clear that the question must be put to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here I would just like to say, on the economy of the elderly, that the government has given it priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161040	Thank you, and then we'll move on to the co-questioner. This is Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161044	Thank you. I have to say to the Minister for the Elderly that it is of course very good that the Minister should come here and say that what is going on in Assens is not fair. And the Minister says that you could think of what it would be like if it were at home by yourself that you never had the bathroom floor washed and you would otherwise only have cleaned every five weeks, could not have cleaned the microwave or refrigerator for what might lie and be wasted. And I agree with the Minister that we cannot bear to think about that at all. But here we are even dealing with weakened elderly people, which is why there are quite different and far greater health and hygiene consequences from lack of cleaning and poor hygiene. So it's even more serious than if it was home to ourselves. I have to say to the Minister that it is a free round to say that it is not fair when, at the same time, you turn the gun around and shoot directly at the municipalities and say that you do not recognise that they cannot afford to do otherwise. So can the Minister please try to answer whether this is the way to hear the Minister, that is to say that this is a matter for the municipalities alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161150	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161151	First of all, it is probably very reasonable for me to answer the question. I am asked whether this is fair and I reply: no, I do not think it is fair. I've been out there for 37 years, and I can't even imagine how it's gonna be possible to stop washing the floor. I can't do that show at all. That is simply impossible, of course it cannot happen. Then I can't understand what it's like to have a free round. I assume that the older rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party is in favour of local self-government. We have autonomy out there, and that means, among other things, that there are some different assessments in the different municipalities, and I have great respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161232	Then it's the questioner, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161233	But when I say that it is a free round for the Minister to stand up here today and say that it is not fair and I am glad that the Minister does, because the Minister could have also come forward and said that it is quite reasonable; so I am glad that it is because the Minister says: there is municipal autonomy, it is the municipalities' own choice. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister whether she does not think it matters at all that the municipalities give priority and place their budgets in a reality where, since the present Prime Minister became Prime Minister, there has been a under-financing of our welfare by over 4 billion. kr. Doesn't it matter at all? Does the Minister really think that this is a choice that the municipalities make completely free and not limited by the economy that is overall for welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161315	I have heard the older rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party say over and over again how it is all being underfunded by this government. I just have to say that the area of the elderly has been given such priority by this government. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have given it an incredible boost. Think that last year, in 2018, the elderly area was the priority area of welfare, i.e. with 2.7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161345	Thank you. Then we go back to the main questioner, Mrs. Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161347	Thank you. To round off this issue, I would like to say that we all agree that this is a serious situation. I asked the Minister for the Elderly whether the Minister has been in contact with his ministerial colleagues about the situation in the municipality of Assen. The mayor says that he himself has had contact with a number of rapporteurs and top ministers, at least ten, and I would like to ask whether Assens' mayor, Søren Steen Andersen, has been in contact with the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161428	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161429	I can say no to that, he hasn't. But I am very pleased to see that it has been announced that there will be a new meeting, an extraordinary meeting, on Monday, so that it might look as if the mayor has decided with the city council to take up the matter again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161450	Thank you. We keep the actors on the field, namely the elderly minister and the two questioners, who just swap seats, as the main questioner is Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161500	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161501	Thank you for that, President. The question is very short, and that is: will the Minister intervene against the municipality of Assen, so weakened elderly people in the municipality can get cleaned more often than every five weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161512	As I also indicated in my answer to the previous question, a service level of cleaning every five weeks and where floor washing is completely abolished is not, in my opinion, a worthy care of the elderly, and I believe that it is neither dignified nor fair to our elderly citizens. It is the Ankestyrelsen which, as an appeal body and as a superior supervisory authority, must ensure that the municipalities comply with the Services Act. This also applies in relation to whether the politically established level of cleaning service is within the scope of the Service Act and without floor washing. It is therefore the Ankestyrelsen who can see if it is within the scope of the Service Act when, as Assens Kommune, you set a service level with cleaning every five weeks and no floor washing. I cannot go into the specific case and impose a certain level of service on a municipal council for the care of the elderly, which is the result of local self-government. As I can understand from the coverage of the case in the press, the City of Assen will re-evaluate their level of service at an extraordinary meeting, and I would therefore like to call on the supervisory body of the Ankestyrelsen to look into the matter because of its fundamental nature. If it turns out that a service level with cleaning every five weeks is actually legal, then all the parties in the Folketing must sit down and look at the legislation so that we avoid matters of this nature, because that is simply not right. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has ensured a marked increase in the area of older people in recent financial laws. The promise, as I also told you before, has also benefited Assen's Municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161658	Mrs. Astrid Krag, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161659	Thank you. Let me just start by saying that I now read just what the Mayor of Assens has written on his Facebook profile about the summoned meeting, and I have to say, unfortunately, that I am not reading the same thing as the Minister, namely that it is the decision on quality standards that needs to be discussed, but rather something technical in relation to the date of entry into force. I hope the Minister is right, but that is not how I read it. That's the second question we have about this, so the case is known. Well, there is a municipality that now wants cleaning every five weeks and no floor washing at all. We're talking about weakened older people. After all, you have to be very bad to get through the needle's eye and get searched for home help. I dare not think about what this could be of health importance, of hygiene challenges. If you waste some food in your oven and don't have it removed for five weeks or in your microwave for that matter... and have to heat supplied food there every day, then it's really hard to see what this can be of importance to the weakest elderly, we've got beyond the basics, i.e. it's not dignified and reasonable. Fortunately, the Minister also says now that the Minister does not think that is fair. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: if the Minister can say so clearly that this is not fair, why will the Minister not do something now to ensure that this is not spreading? Because that is one of the concerns that has also been raised by, among others, Mr President. The Elders Case, that is, this new practice with a quality standard as low as the one we see in Assens, can spread to other municipalities that have problems with a pressed economy. These are the three aspects I was hoping to have reversed with the Minister here today. Is it worthy? I understand the Minister agrees with me that it is not. Is that legal? In fact, the Minister cannot really answer that question, and that in itself is worrying. The last thing was also seen: when the Minister is so clear that it should not be like this in our lovely country, why does the Minister not want to do anything right away and, for example, what he wants to do? is something very clear here today so that this is not going to be a state we see spreading to other municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161858	Well, it's just that we here at home have screwed up a system so that it means that it's the Ankestyrelsen, which is the independent authority that decides on this kind of case. And at least as a minister, I'm going to follow the way you do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161916	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161918	I have to say that when the Minister comes forward today and says so clearly, as she fortunately says, that what is happening in Assens now is not fair, that we simply cannot be familiar with the elderly, and I think that the Minister also agrees with me that this may have some consequences for weakened elderly people, both in terms of health and hygiene problems, which cannot develop on a bathroom floor that is never washed, we know it ourselves, diabetics and foot sores, etc. Why won't the Minister do anything now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220161956	[Sound Falls]... do something. I strongly urge the Ankestyrelsen to look at this matter because I think it is a matter of principle that we have before us, and I would like to say that I am in complete agreement with the questioner. I think this is quite unreasonable, but we now have a workflow and a way of working, and my powers are not to go into it. It's Ankestyrelsen who does it, and then we'll see what they come up with. Then I have said that if they now come to the conclusion that it is legal or that they may not want to look at the matter, then I think we must sit down together and see what needs to be done. The legislation is now something that the Folketing decides and something that we must look at together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162042	Thank you. Then we'll go over to the co-questioner. I give the floor to Mrs Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162047	Thank you. I can tell you that the extraordinary meeting to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has been convened before the city council only deals with the adoption of quality standards. The mayor writes: The economic situation is unchanged, and so is the view of the unworthy savings. That is to make it clear, and I would say that what is needed if we are to sit together is to sit together to look at the economy. That is the problem, and I am extremely concerned that the reality I see on Funen and in the municipality of Assen cannot be seen at all. I have to ask again: has the Minister been in contact with his colleagues, his ministerial colleagues, on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162147	But listen to me: we still have municipal autonomy, and I understand that the Mayor of Assens has spoken to the Minister for Home Affairs and Economic Affairs and perhaps also the Minister for Finance and others, and it is clear that that is his job, and that is what he has said directly. So again: I have to say that this government gives priority to the area of the elderly, and we have given priority to the area of the elderly, and the municipality of Assen has quite simply, in addition to what else they get, got approx. 13 million kr., which comes to just this year, in 2019, from the dignity billion and for the extra staffing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162232	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162233	Municipal autonomy does not prevent the Minister for the Elderly from speaking with his colleagues. I cannot understand why the Minister for the Elderly cannot speak with his colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. I ask again: has the Minister turned this question with anyone else in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162303	I'm sorry I haven't turned this question around with anyone, because this is the way this is about Assen's municipality. And I have read that the mayor of the municipality of Assen has talked about it with equalisation, but in relation to the economy itself, I have to repeat once again that this government has given priority to the economy of the elderly, and we have done so with a great deal of money. Imagine, in 2018 there were 2.7 billion. kr. to the elderly area. It's a priority. And then it's up to the municipal self-government to figure out how they're going to prioritise the money out there. But they got the money out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162350	Thank you. Then we go back to the main questioner, Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162353	There are several things in this answer that are extremely disappointing. Well, this is not just about the municipality of Assen; it is everywhere in the country that we see municipalities lowering quality standards in order to get budgets to meet. And there is enough money in the municipalities, says the minister. I would just like to say that when welfare has been underfunded by over 4 billion. kr., it's hard for me to see that there's enough money. I also wonder what reality the Minister is visiting when she is out in a nursing home, if she does not hear what I hear, namely that there are fewer employees and that the elderly are becoming increasingly poorer and heavier to care for and care for. I would say that the Minister could have sent a clear signal here today to both the municipality of Assen, but also to the other municipalities in the country. After all, it is not just us in the Social Democratic Party who believe that this is about more than Assens. For example, that is what we think. The Elders case also, which has sent an open letter to the Minister on the matter here and which fears that this will spread to other municipalities. And now we hear from the Minister today that you cannot even answer whether what is going on is legal. I think that is deeply worrying and I wish we could get the Minister more involved, both as Minister for the Elderly, but also, as my colleague says, in relation to the other government ministers, when it comes to the financial framework for our welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162504	But then I have to repeat once again: it is therefore the Ankestyrelsen who has to go in and see if it is within the scope of the Service Act whether it is legal. It is not me as a minister, it is the Ankestyrelsen that we have for this kind of thing, and the older rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party ought to know that. And I am not surprised that Mrs Astrid Krag is disappointed, because she generally is when we meet. But I have to say once again that I have urged the Ankestyrelsen to look at this, and I have also said that if it turns out that this is legal, we must meet and find out what will happen. Legislation is not something you just do yourself as Minister for the Elderly, and Mrs Astrid Krag, who himself has been a minister, certainly knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162600	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author and co-author. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190220162609	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 21 February 2019 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
