ParlaMint-DK_20191204100016	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100021	The debate is open. First of all, we give the floor to the Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100046	Thank you for that, President. As has already been mentioned, today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party on the setting up of a simplistic committee involving representatives from industry. The Committee, like the previous Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, is to make proposals for abolishing or simplifying taxes, and the aim of the proposal is to achieve a more simple tax system. Like the Danish People's Party, the government is concerned about strengthening the framework conditions for our companies, and I would like to make the tax system simpler so that it will be less difficult to operate in Denmark. Tax rules are associated with administrative costs for companies that spend time calculating, time documenting and also time reporting the specific taxes and charges. It is time that companies could have spent instead on doing business and also on creating growth and jobs. The government is therefore concerned that the rules are as simple as possible so that companies do not have to spend time and costs on unnecessary administration. This applies both to the current tax rules and, of course, to the introduction of completely new tax rules. In the resolution we are debating here today, the Danish People's Party highlights a number of specific charges which are crazy or illogical and which could usefully be simplified or abolished. This concerns, among other things: on taxes on incandescent bulbs, coffee and chocolate. And according to the Danish People's Party, the proposal may lead to less revenue, but the Danish People's Party does not point to concrete funding in the proposal. I would say that I very much agree that there are a number of taxes that should be examined in greater detail so that we can see whether they could be arranged in a more appropriate way. I agree that it is easy to discuss whether it is at all a good idea to have a tax on incandescent bulbs or on coffee for that matter, but as we know, it requires funding to abolish taxes and whether, in the end, there will be a simplification of the tax system also depends, as we know, on the actual financing in these contexts. It is therefore necessary, as I have already indicated, to look at the overall picture and, of course, it is also important to hear the business community about where they think the biggest challenges are. The government will therefore, in dialogue with the business community, examine whether appropriate simplifications of taxes and charges can be identified to make life easier for them and, above all, what can make it easier to settle taxes correctly and reduce administrative burdens for businesses and businesses in general. I would like to conclude by saying that the government will, of course, generally have a positive focus on strengthening the framework conditions for Danish companies and thereby strengthening the basis for future growth. As I said, the government is in favour of looking at the simplification of our tax system, and the government will define the detailed framework for work on simplifying taxes and duties. In this way, we have to reject this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100406	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100411	I had actually prepared for me to stand up and thank the Minister for wanting to support the proposal, because he said all the good things, namely that we wanted to enter into dialogue with business and that we agreed that it could be made simpler. That is exactly what the proposal proposes, that is, that the Tax Authority should engage in dialogue with the business community in order to find out what kind of charges may not be behavioural regulation and which taxes may just be heavy to deal with. Then you could come up with a basis for decision for the Folketing, so that together we could find out whether it would be a broader tax base to be used instead of some of these things that don't make sense. So I did not quite grasp the reason for rejecting the proposal, because we are talking positively about it, agree with the issue and want to engage in dialogue with the business community, which is actually being set up here. So what exactly is it that cannot be supported in the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100500	It is, for example, that a number of taxes are being pointed out which must be abolished. So if sir... Dennis Flydtkjær puts a committee question on the Tax Committee, we can show how many hundreds of millions of kroner just the handful that has been pointed out in the motion for a resolution should be abolished will cost. I think that is a major problem with this proposal. But in general we fully agree with the intentions of the Danish People's Party, and as I said, the government will work on this proposal to simplify and regulate. We can do this by looking backwards, but we can also do so in the future when we take that proposal for a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100539	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100541	I do not think the Minister has read the proposal because it is actually very specific that it is not exactly these taxes, but that they are mentioned as examples of things that the committee could look at. I can read from the proposal and it says here in my own proposal: Below are a number of examples of what the proposers think are crazy or illogical charges. No decision has been taken as to whether precisely these taxes should be abolished. A future simplistic committee will look into this. The following are therefore merely to give examples of charges which do not make sense and which can be included in the work of the Committee. It is a bit difficult to say that it is because of the funding. These are examples that show the need for this. There are a large number of charges that make no sense. I have given some examples of this. There's a lot of charges besides these crazy ones. So is it not a little thin to reject it because there is a lack of funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100631	No, I don't think it is. But that should not distract attention from the proposal itself. We think that the purpose of this is quite good. This is something we have discussed many times here in the Folketing. I do not think there has been a tax minister on this platform who has not said that we should do what we can to simplify the tax rules. We would very much like to be involved in this. That is why we are going to start a dialogue with industry on some of these issues. And then we return to the Folketing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100659	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100701	The Treasury Minister admits that we have taxes in Denmark which are illogical, even crazy. But the tax minister will not abolish them because it would require funding. There are two ways of obtaining funding. One is saving that money in the public sector. After all, in Denmark we have one of the most expensive public sectors with the highest public expenditure of over 1 100 billion. kr., so there was something to take off. But you could also choose another model, and that was to abolish charges that are crazy and illogical, and instead raise taxes that are less crazy and less illogical. The tax minister and the government could choose that path. What is the reason why the tax minister declares positive about abolishing crazy and illogical taxes, but will not even consider doing so anyway, for example. then know, if that is what the tax minister prefers, to raise other taxes or taxes that are not crazy and illogical in the same way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100803-2	Now I didn't say there were crazy and illogical charges. That is what the proposers write in their proposals. I admit that it is easy to discuss this, and I think that should be done on a regular basis. This is done in the context of tax reforms and, in other contexts, these issues are discussed. The whole point of this question is a dialogue with the business community, and the government will take it with the business community, and then we will return to the Folketing on this issue on an ongoing basis. So there is no disagreement about the core of the proposal, certainly not. However, if we as a government are to discuss some of the proposals that the Danish People's Party has, it is very good to stand on a basis of funding, and the funding of this proposal will cost several hundred million kroner if we just take those who are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100852	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100854	Charges on products and goods purchased can of course be justified by the fact that the sum for which the product and the goods are harmful to society as a whole is collected. That is the logical explanation for having a tax. So now that the tax minister will not admit that we have crazy and illogical taxes, I would ask the tax minister to explain why we have a tax on coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204100920-2	I'm sure I can make a long statement to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen about why the charge has come and who has invented it and who has been behind it. What is central in this context is that the government wants to have a dialogue with the Danish business community about what the problems are when we look at both individual taxes but also how the charges are arranged and what the requirements are for our business community to report, register and other. That is what I see as contributing to the simplification of the conditions under which Danish industry operates, and that is what can help us to create a better framework for Danish business. That's what the government wants to be a part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101000	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101004	Now, of course, I am new in this Parliament, but as I am just reading this motion for a resolution, the only place where there is no funding is the work itself, which this Parliament has to do. Everything else is under comment and is not specifically included in the motion for a resolution. The Minister must correct me if I am completely wrong. So the only thing I can see there's no funding for here is really the work that this simplistic committee is going to do. But when you say that you will not support it because there are these comments, does it also apply if the business community points out some charges that are foolish? Should the business community also point out where to find the funding for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101047	A lot of these exercises have been done throughout the years in here. This has been done in the field of business, it has been done in the field of taxation, and quite often we find funding within a framework, for example, or we find funding by making, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned adjustments to the tax system. It's a used exercise in here. I think this exercise is quite good. I am not the first tax minister to stand on the floor of the Danish Parliament and talk about the need for simplification and debureaucratisation and easier conditions for Danish business, not at all. That is not what the government does not want to do, on the contrary. We want to be a part of that. But the authors of this motion for a resolution write that there are examples of charges that are crazy and illogical, and one can see if one calculates what it would mean by less revenue, if in such an exercise one took and abolished the so-called crazy and illogical taxes, that then it would cost, well over 2, almost 3 billion. kr. I think it might be possible to consider this when making such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101149	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101150	Okay, but that would mean that in future we, as parliamentary parties, should not write anything in the comments. Because if there had been no examples in the remarks here, then the Minister has said that this proposal could have been supported. But because of the fact that there is something in the comments about some examples, it is not supported. That must be the conclusion of this. This is certainly something that we, as a new party, want to take along. Then we will simply not make any comments, because that is not an excuse for not being able to support a proposal with which we are apparently in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101220	I think it is quite a fine discussion that we can have on how to ensure a better framework for Danish business, for example, when it comes to organising tax policy more flexibly and more simply. This is an exercise on which we have ongoing discussions. At the moment, we're sitting here. It's a conciliation circle, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is not in the business and is cleaning up the property and the residential area, and we had a meeting as recently as yesterday, where this was also on the agenda. I think it is a very general theme in the area of taxation that what we can do to make it as simple and manageable as possible for both citizens and businesses, we must set out to do. There is no doubt that in society in general and with the political desires that are in here, there are plenty of things moving in the other direction. That is some of the things we can see with some of the problems that we are facing right now and that we need to deal with. So I am definitely in this exercise and the government will enter into dialogue with the business community and will then come up with proposals on how to simplify how to make things more flexible. If there are things that cause problems unnecessarily, then we would like to help look at it; if there are things that need to be adjusted, then we would also like to take a look at it. But it is clear that, whether you write it in the remarks or not, there is a bottom line, and it has to be paid, because otherwise you have to find huge savings everywhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101336	Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101337	Thank you for the floor. Now there is not so much of what the Minister says, which I disagree with, about entering into a dialogue with business to simplify and simplify and something like that. Now, quite generally, we are talking about the tax system, which is one of those places that clearly have an improvement potential when it comes to simplifying and simplifying. Now the Minister says that there will be dialogue with the business community, and can we then get more information about what the plan is? Because I'm standing here and I'm confused. Is something going to happen? I am an impatient person, so I ask: will something like this happen soon, that is next year? Or what's the plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101425	It is a dialogue that the government constantly has with business. When things are put in place, when legislative proposals are in preparation, you will see it as well. For example: in writing. - (FR) in the Committee on Taxation, in connection with the work on many of the legislative proposals we are now considering, there are ongoing amendments arising from consultation responses from organisations of interest, from companies and others. So that process is running continuously. What I, as a minister, will try to take the initiative is to have such a little more formal dialogue with business on where there are areas where we can make it simpler and we can make life easier for our businesses. I basically believe that one of the aims of fiscal policy is that it does not matter that it is organised in such a way that life becomes easier for those who play according to the rules here. What is the main problem is that there are all those who do not play by the rules. That is, for example, why the government has decided to set 150 million. kr. There are many things we can do to make life easier for those who play by the rules. I would very much like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101532	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101533	I am glad to hear that: you want to help make things easier for all our good businesses. But will it be so that when I go out to all these good companies, because I am also out a lot of places and in dialogue with them, will they actually feel that something is happening in a short time? Because I have a lot of doubts about this soft wording coming from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101601	That is not a soft formulation. In other words, my own personal approach to fiscal policy is also that of the government and the circle of understanding towards it, without putting too many words into their mouths; they can explain that themselves when they come up on the platform and it is, of course, that it would be good if tax policy could be adjusted in a way that would make life easier for those who play by the rules in the future. It would be fantastic and it would be very good if we could then also give priority to resources to make life harder for those who do not play by the rules and who deliberately bypass the rules. This is the priority which I think is the interesting one when it comes to simplifying the regulatory framework, when it comes to the debureaucratisation of the regulatory framework, about new ways of organising reports and such things, including for Danish business. So in this process, it's a handshake from the government to those who play by the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101701	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister and we go further in the rapporteur's line. The first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101717	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting the motion for a resolution here. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is, of course, about setting up a committee of simplifications involving representatives from industry. And, in concrete terms, it is a question of simplifying the tax system. In the social democracy we support the good intentions of the resolution. Growth in companies helps create more jobs, and Denmark makes it richer, and it is therefore positive if it is possible to strengthen the framework conditions for Danish companies by simplifying the tax rules and rules, so that it becomes less difficult to operate in Denmark. The Social Democratic Party itself has proposed that a fixed track system should be set up for the tax administration at the establishment of foreign companies in Denmark. The tax rules are often complicated and companies may need security for future taxation, which advice from accountants or lawyers cannot provide. But back to the motion for a resolution here. There are a number of specific taxes which can be simplified or abolished, for example. on incandescent bulbs, coffee and chocolate. However, there is no reference in this regard to how we can finance the potential less revenue, and then we come to the heart of the matter. So there is no reference to how to finance the potential minor revenue that these abolitions may entail, and it is, after all, important to know the financial challenges and the costs of the resolution before voting through it. The government, on the other hand, has announced that dialogue will be held on this particular problem with business, and the Social Democrats therefore support the intentions of the resolution. We would like to see a simpler tax system whenever possible, but we cannot support the proposal when the issue of financing is so uncertain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101932	Yes, that is a few brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204101936	If there is a lack of funding in the proposal, that is part of the committee's work, and it must be assumed that the officials can handle that for the pay they have already. I would just like to ask a few specific questions: does the rapporteur think it makes sense that there is a tax on air in softice? It's called a swelling charge. Does that really make sense to the rapporteur? Should there not be tax on the basic stock instead? And if you could say yes to that, it would certainly not have cost any money, because then it is a simplification of the tax, where it is not the air that you pay the tax, but the basic mass that you make the ice off. So if it is because you are afraid of funding, it could be one of the things that the committee could look at if you could simplify. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur why there is a tax on air in softice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102019	I have now read the motion for a resolution, so when the rapporteur says that there is no mention of the existence of funding, I know that it says that the proposal should produce less revenue for the state and that the proposers will then, together with the other parties of the Folketing, decide on the individual proposals. That is why we say that we agree with the intentions, but that we need to know about the funding. It is such a sound basic principle of policy that we must always know the financing of the proposals we make. About the issue of air pollution in softice: there is no charge on air in softice. There is, on the other hand, a tax on ice cream, which is used to produce softice. The levy on ice cream mixes is calculated according to how many litres of ice cream mixes can be used to produce. So there is no charge on air in softice. But let me also say that I fully agree that it is fine to go through taxes that do not make sense, but there is no charge on air in softice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102136	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102137	So let's try to take it a little bit further. If you go down to an ice cream shop and want to buy a softice, it is typically the case that on the machine it comes out may have to turn the tap onto another function, and then it comes out as a milkshake instead - that is, where no air has come in. The difference is that the milkshake is free of charge, where the sophistication is with charge. Can the rapporteur then answer what is most unhealthy? Because I assume that we agree that taxes should be be behavior-regulating, so we should eat healthier or use less energy, or it may be for the sake of climate or whatever it may be. But what fattests mostly a softice or a milkshake, which is made of exactly the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102214	I think it is important to say that the intentions of this bill are in fact in agreement with the Social Democrats. It is okay to look at the taxes we have and if a tax does not make sense in terms of good behaviour or health, if it is a silly tax, as has been said in the debate before, if it is a tax that provides unnecessary bureaucracy for, for example, a company, then it would be really, really fine if we could get rid of such a tax. However, on the bottom line, the measures still have to be financed, and what is the main problem for the Social Democrats in relation to this resolution is that there is a lack of funding, and that is not small change we are talking about. It is several billions of dollars that are needed to finance these tax relief proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102311	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102312	But it is simply grotesque nonsense that we are witnessing from the rapporteur on the platform. There is nothing in this motion for a resolution on taxes that requires funding. I would like the rapporteur to clarify where it is specifically stated in the motion for a resolution itself, and not in the comments and in examples and in all sorts of other things, which is a prose, but in what we decide, in what we are dealing with here, that there are taxes that require funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102357	Thank you. A lap of prose, it's said. In other words, it is quite essential that the comments on a motion for a resolution should also be taken into account. Ever since I was elected to a municipal council for the first time in 2001, the doctrine has always been that it is fine with very good political proposals, but that we should also just take care of the funding. And the comments on this motion for a resolution state loudly and clearly that we shall then have to decide on the financing of any small revenue. And this is actually a significant reduction in revenue. That is why we must have the funding in place. But I still want to say that instead of talking us apart, let us agree that this is a resolution with good intentions. And the government will take it on board and have a dialogue and will continue a dialogue with companies on taxes that could possibly be passed through with a close comb in order to see whether there are taxes we can do without, whether there are taxes that do not make sense, but also taxes that have to be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102507	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102508	In other words, the only road that does not make any sense at all right now is, I am sorry to say, the rapporteur. I asked whether the rapporteur could clarify where the resolution itself, that is to say what we have to decide, says something about taxes which require funding. You can't do that. Then we come up with a long explanation that there is something in the comments on examples of taxes that can be taken up afterwards. But that is nowhere concrete in the motion for a resolution. So unless it is funding to set up the committee itself, for which the Social Democrats are not prepared to find the money, and that is what you criticise, it is just a long excuse because you do not bring the proposal yourself and because you really do not want to react to it here. And then you use some excuse for what's a bad excuse and nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102602	Well, that's incredible, so this resolution will have some revenue implications. And this is also about funding, and we must also look at the comments. In other words, financing must subsequently be found and, for example, it is estimated that the consumption tax will result in a permanent reduction of some 320 million. kr.; in the case of auto bulbs, it is estimated that there will be less revenue of around 45 million. kr.; in the case of the chocolate levy, it is estimated that there will be a permanent reduction of about 2 billion. kr. We're not talking about change. However, I would still like to say that we would very much like to be involved in relation to the intentions of the proposal. If there are any charges we can clean up in a dialogue with our business community and our companies we would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102706	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204102727	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling a motion for a resolution which we in the Left certainly find interesting. It should not be a secret that I come from a party where we would certainly like to look at how we simplify rules for both our business and our public employees. Because this resolution is not really just about taxes; it is about charges in bidding form. We have the basic view that it should not be difficult to operate in Denmark, just as our public employees should not spend unnecessary time enforcing cumbersome and outdated rules, and we have actually worked for too long. As the motion for a resolution shows, it was after all the Left who took the initiative to set up the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is very similar to the proposed simplification committee. It was actually throughout the last government period that the Left-led governments focused on removing unnecessary charges and troublesome rules first with the reorganisation committee of the V government, then with ambitious targets for burden relief under the VLAK government. This resulted in good cooperation in practice, where, with the help and support of the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in particular, we reached a great deal, for example. when it came to duties on coffee substitutes and waffles. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about objectives. The previous government actively used objectives to achieve concrete results. The VLAK government set an ambitious target to reduce the burden on business by 4 billion. kr. for the period 2015-2020. Business has praised us for this and certainly not without reason, for by the end of 2018, the government had realised burden relief for net 1.5 billion. kr. This is, of course, an example of ambitious targets being able to produce results in practice. However, the current government also seems to be pleased with objectives and objectives when it comes to the climate area. On the other hand, the Minister for Industry has stated that the Government will not set targets for regulatory simplification and burden relief in the field of industry, even though the government is apparently committed to doing so. As far as I am concerned, there are several things here that are not entirely in line with each other, because how do you work in a targeted way without setting targets? And why do we want to set targets for the climate, but not for the industry? When it comes to concrete initiatives, however, we see some will from both the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, who announced before the elections to be ready to remove more burdens from the business community when the then government presented the less bureaucracy more growth. However, this is not exactly in line with what we have already experienced. With the new Finance Bill of the Government and the Support Parties, funding is mainly found in increasing excise duties, which are precisely at the expense of business. This makes the average Dane poorer, and it creates increased bureaucracy for our companies. At the start of the government period, we can only fear that the amount and the amount of taxes will increase in the future. This only makes the Danish People's Party's proposal for a simplistic committee even more topical. Now, however, I hope that what R and S said before the elections will become a reality after the elections. To enter into dialogue on the setting up of a simplistic committee, I think it is an obvious opportunity to prove this. In the Left, we are ready to continue the good work of lightening burdens on both the business community and the public employees who enforce them. It creates a less bureaucratic system for our companies and a better working environment for our public employees. We do not necessarily agree with everything in the motion for a resolution. For example: We have had some discussions on the very name of the committee; we are not sure that the word simplifying embraces what we think the committee should work for and should represent. The word simplification, in other words a simplification committee, will, on the other hand, be more significant for what the committee should be working on: simplification of our tax system, which makes it simpler for companies to navigate taxes to the public. The committee should not work with random simplifications, but precise and largely simplifications. Although we do not agree with everything in the motion for a resolution we are debating today, we welcome the proposal from the Danish People's Party and we look forward to entering into dialogue on the establishment of a simplistic committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103150	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103154	Thank you for the good and nice words about the proposal. I would actually like to ask you a specific example. When you go down and buy an ice cream with a stick in it that you use to keep the ice with, there is no charge on the stick, you might say. But if you buy the exact same amount of ice in a cup, where the same stick is used to sit and eat with, there is a charge on the stick. Does that make sense, according to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103222	At first glance, it doesn't make sense. And that is also why we very, very much want to be part of this committee so that we can go in and see what makes sense and what does not make sense. 'Cause we're gonna have to take a look at that. We must not create unnecessary rules for our business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103239	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103241	Thank you. On the other hand, I can say that it makes good sense that we have taxes which actually have a behavioural effect compared to using fewer resources or less gasoline, or whatever it may be, but does it make sense when you have the exact same amount of ice, where in one case there is no charge, and in the other case is a tax? By the way, we will come up with a proposal tomorrow that the levy on the stick that comes with the ice in the cup should be tripled, but that there should still be no charge on the stick that is in the ice. It's a little strange that the Socialists are not going to be able to look at how to get this done more simply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103314	Again, I agree with the questioner. I also do not quite understand why social democracy will not help to look at: what is it that we can do to make it simpler for our business community? It has to make sense with the rules that come from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103324	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103327	I am pleased that the Left would like to remove crazy taxes. Would the Left also like to remove the inheritance tax, which is a completely wasted tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103337	After all, we are not talking about specific taxes today, so I cannot stand up here on the platform and just start talking about just one. But we are in favour of going in and looking at what makes sense and what makes no sense. We are, for example. I am very sorry about what has happened in the financial law negotiations, where it has been set up to triple.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103358	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103400	No, but we're talking about taxes that don't make sense. So I have to ask: does the Left think that the inheritance tax makes sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103410	In other words, what we are talking about here is unnecessary bureaucracy and there can be discussion about whether the inheritance tax is unnecessary bureaucracy. It is, after all, such an attitude towards where we are. In general, however, we are very saddened that in the financial law negotiations it has reached 15%. Again, i.e. the inheritance tax itself. It's not something we clap on in the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103430	Then it's mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103432	I hear the rapporteur from the Left saying that the rapporteur thinks it is sad to hear that the Social Democrats will not be looking at this. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that both the Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur have just said on this resolution that we want to take part in this, but that we want to enter into a dialogue with business, with our companies on how we can do this in the most sensible way possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103459	When you say there is something you want to help look at, I do not see the concrete in it. I would like you to go in and set concrete objectives before I start to be satisfied, because otherwise we can look at a lot of things without any results. I don't see any results now, but I hope you bring me something, because then I'd be happy, and then I'd clap a little of you and actually cheer for you from up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103525	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103526	Does the rapporteur of the Left not think that it is a guarantee that action will be taken in this area when a minister and a rapporteur say that this is part of a dialogue with companies, that is to say that we will look at whether there are any charges that are inappropriate? And does the rapporteur also think that it is quite important in this context to think about funding? After all, it is not small change that we are talking about billions of dollars, and we have just negotiated a financial law where there was an economic room for manoeuvre of 2.1 billion. kr., and in this there's up to 3 billion. DKK to be financed. Does this not affect the rapporteur of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103607	I hope it's a guarantee. Now I asked the minister when something will happen. That's what we say up in North Jutland. But I didn't find out, but I hope it's a guarantee. I hope, then, that in a very short time we can see some fantastic play from you. But right now I have it for good and in store, but I hope you bring something, and I really cheer for you, and you get praise and a like on Facebook and everything from me when you do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103637	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Olldag Oldag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103651	Thank you very much. For the time being, I would like to thank you for a very interesting debate, which, in fact, goes far beyond the concrete proposal that we have here today, namely how we organise our tax system to suit the reality of the twenty-first century. It is a debate that I think it is well known that the Radical Left is always ready to take. The intention in the proposal is very good and hits a recurring theme in the debate, namely that we should try to make our tax system more simple and transparent. During the previous government, as has also been mentioned, we also carried out the exercise and set up a reorganisation committee which made a number of proposals that were either revenue-neutral or had very little less revenue. Perhaps we could start off with a return visit on the proposals from that catalogue, or we in the Committee on Taxation can take a thematic meeting on simplification based on the recent Danish Industry idea catalogue on tax simplification, i.e. take the dialogue with the business community that the Social Democratic Party and the Minister also have to start here. Whatever the case, we in the Radical Left are at least open to any debate that can help simplify our tax system, and in addition, as several rapporteurs have already said, it should also be pointed out that this must be linked financially. There has to be revenue from somewhere else, and it is perhaps a major discussion about how we construct our overall tax system, and when we start talking about it, we are going to talk about red tape, simplification of rules, practices for companies, etc., which we in the Radical Left are always willing to go through with a closet to see how we can simplify something so as to spend as little time as possible on that sort of thing. Secondaryly, and perhaps even more important, it is a fundamental discussion, and once we get it started, there is quite a long way to go between the parties in relation to how we agree on where the money should come from, if we have to cover the gaps, such as the one we are talking about. This proposal, which has also been mentioned, will bring practical results. And we cannot escape the fact that the dismantling of taxes leaves holes in the treasury, so any tax that has been abolished should also follow a proposal on where the money should come from. This is quite normal financial responsibility, and this is not clear from the motion for a resolution, and we in the Radical Left cannot therefore support it at this stage. However, I would like to point out that at all times we are ready to talk about how to reform our tax system. I do not think that is a secret. Before we come to all sorts of questions about what we in the Radical Left are going to do in this context, can I also reveal that we are not ready with a proposal, but perhaps that is some of the things that are in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103942	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204103944	I really wish the radical rapporteur had read the proposal before she went up and made such a speech. It is, of course, a question of having a basis for decision, of putting the Ministry together with the business community, of finding out what are some things that are teasing, of what does not make sense in terms of behavior regulation, and then they can come back to us with a catalogue, and then we have to find out which we are going to do something about: some things we simplify, some things we may be completely abolishing, and it must of course be linked financially. But this is the first step where we put the business and the ministry together. So I don't understand... unless you haven't read the proposal... how you can make yourself stand and say there's a lack of funding. It is, after all, a first step in establishing a basis for decision-making. Will the rapporteur not try to read the proposal again and then give the speech again? Then I would actually like to try to ask you something concrete. There is an additional levy on wine. It makes sense that we have a basic tax on wine because there is alcohol in it, and we would like people to drink less, but it is so in the legislation today that if there is 3 bar pressure at 20 degrees, there is an additional levy. What does that mean? This means that there is a tax on the ceiling bubbles in a cheap Asti. If it is financing that is lacking, then the additional levy could be removed and the general levy on wine raised, and that is what the committee should be looking at. But does it really make sense that we have an additional levy if there is 3 bars of pressure at 20 degrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104101	Sorry, I am smiling, but it is only because the rapporteur actually points out some of what the proposal also mentions has an inherent absurdity in it. And we really wanted to take a look at it. One of the things I mention is that we already have a catalogue from the former Committee on the Sanitation, and we have the Danish Industry's catalogue of ideas, and in addition to that, as the Left did from up here, I am very excited to see a business policy initiative on the part of our government. We are also in the Radical Left waiting for it, and I hope that this type of simplification will be included. But in the first place we are not ready to set up a simplistic committee as it looks right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104145	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104146	In view of my previous question, the rapporteur admits that this is not a question of financing, but of obtaining a basis for decision in order to get the business community to point out these charges that are crazy. The proposal contains some examples, for example. the wine tax, and if there is 3 bar pressure at 20 degrees in an Asti, there are charges on the air bubbles. Does the rapporteur think it is unhealthy to drink the air bubbles in an Asti, for example?? Could the solution possibly be that we then said that the additional levy goes away, but the general wine tax goes up, so it goes in 0? So would it be simpler to explain to the public because I have not met any Danes who think it makes sense that we have a tax on air bubbles in an Asti?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104222	Forgive me again for smiling, but that is because the rapporteur is absolutely right about the absurdity of this particular tax. The rapporteur is, of course, one of the experienced and has previously been dealing with all these issues and perhaps has a fairly good overview of what kind of charges should be cleared up. So the question is whether we are really going to do the work twice, because both the Committee on the Sanitation, the Danish Industry, the experienced rapporteurs, the Minister, the Ministry might actually know where to go. So this is perhaps a joint task for all of us instead of setting up a committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104301	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104304	Thank you. Words are free of charge, and I think that is a comprehensive description of the tax policy of the Radicals. They say and postulate that you are a party that wants to make sense and is not afraid to reform and change etc., but when it comes down to it and you sit in a budget debate, it turns out that you have some other priorities. The Radical Left is concerned about climate policy, that is fine. The Radical Left is concerned that more money should be spent on education, that is quite fine. The Radical Left is concerned that we should have a more lenient foreign policy, which is also fine. These are priorities that you can have. But when we look at the Finance Act, it turns out that these are just words when the Radical Left says that we are concerned about a more sensible tax policy. Because you go in the opposite direction with the Finance Act. That is also why today's Radical Left cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. 'Cause they're just words. In reality, fiscal policy is not very much concerned. The other three issues are addressed, but not in tax policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104405	Now I find it difficult to hear the question here in the rapporteur's comment. Maybe it's an exchange of views. I promise you, we are committed to fiscal policy. Now the rapporteur himself was not present in the negotiations in connection with this year's Finance Act, but it should be no secret that funding was a top priority for the Radical Left, and I do not think there can be any doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104431	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104431-2	In fact, there is no need to ask a question in this Chamber. That is why I have the floor for a brief comment, not a brief question. That was a brief remark. I insist that the Radical Left is merely decorating itself with a desire for reform when it comes to the tax system, but does not want anything in reality. You would like to make a Finance Act that is moving in the wrong direction and making different taxes bigger, even if it does not make any sense at all. For the Radical Left, there are some other issues that we are concerned about. But then say it. Don't pretend to be a tax and employment reform party when you are not really.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104505	We have no problem at all with saying that out loud. In our opinion, taxes should be designed in such a way that they are behavior-regulating, in other words that taxes on the behaviour we would like to see less of which are climate-damaging, harmful to health should be increased. And we would also like to lower them on what is pulling in the opposite direction behaviorally. So for us it is a tool to move in the direction that we would like, and there should be no doubt whatsoever about that. I hope there isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104532	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104534	It is true that we had set up a committee of reorganisations when we had the power of government last time, and that led, of course, to the simplification of the registration fee and the removal of a number of taxes, for example. the levy on PVC and one-off services and similar taxes, which are now being re-established. So is there not just now a need to look at what can be done? After all, there seems to be no politically fertilized land to implement what was actually in the report of the Committee on Sanification. But perhaps you could get some other impressions of what could then be simplified. Could Radicals not see an idea in it, or is it because they are not actually interested in simplifying taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104612	We are, of course, very interested in simplifying. But when we sit and negotiate a financial law, it is also the art of the possible. After all, we had a number of proposals for taxes, including those relating to VAT. on PVC, which was also in our own draft budget. And it is precisely because we want to support in principle that we impose a tax on the things we really want to see less of in our society. And the fact that, in the past, in the work of the Committee on the Sanitation, we have also helped to eliminate taxes is also about the fact that there is another consideration which is about bureaucracy and administrative costs. Now we have thought about our business community, which we would like to support. So for us, it's all about getting in and influencing a development in the right direction and always seeking influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104654	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104655	Well, wouldn't this just give the radicals the tools to find the places that could be simplified? In fact, we have done a great deal of what the Committee on the Sanification came up with last time. Some of it is then rolled back now, but we have actually carried out a great deal of it. So it could perhaps be very good with an extra shot in the gay, and then it could be something that the Radicals could also support. And that doesn't mean you have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104725	I hope that over the next three and a half years, as will be the case, the Left will be able to support a great many of the simplification and simplification proposals that will lie in the various legislative proposals. I also hope that we can make motions for resolutions together, but we may need to be a little more specific and that we will also become more realistic, among other things. About funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104748	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104751	Now we're talking about taxes and new taxes. There has just been a financial agreement, and there is a registration fee on aircraft. Could the rapporteur reveal whether it is a proposal that the Radical Left has made or who has made that proposal in the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104811	We would have liked to see a tax on air travel which would then have to finance a forest fund, but when you sit there and there are more parties and there are several different considerations to take, it must be landed where it can land. It was not a proposal made by the Radical Left. It is, of course, a tax that has also existed in the past and has been reintroduced. When you sit there, one government party and three support parties together, looking for funding for all the good things you want, one of the levers is to reinstate that kind of old tax. We would have liked it to be a clean aviation tax that was aimed at climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104857	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104859	All right, then we can leave out that it was the Radical Left, but I also asked if it would be possible to unveil who would then have brought a tax on aircraft to the table. Let's just remember, that's 5 million. kr. I do not know whether the rapporteur can explain the actual revenue and how much it will cost to administer this system, which is now 5 million. kr., because it could be fun to look a little closer at whether there is really any revenue from this, or whether it actually costs more to manage than you get in, but we may have to question that. But who brought it to the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204104933	I didn't sit there, so I'm just gonna be answer guilty, but it shouldn't be a secret that it's not an idea that's grown in our backyard. It has, as the rapporteur also points out, a small amount of revenue which may almost upset administrative costs. But it has to be said that when you do such a new exercise as we just got rid of life, it is just one of the things that ends up on the list of funding parts, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105006	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105016	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting illogical taxes on the agenda in this Chamber. During the late summer, I came across one of these illogical taxes, namely the chocolate tax law, which has not been amended since 1972 and which means that cocoa drink made on other than cow's milk may be affected by a tax of DKK 26. per It is a tax which not only limits the transition to more sustainable eating habits but also distorts competition enormously and which will mean that cocoa drinks based on oats or soya can cost 70 DKK. The liter. The fact that something interferes with free competition is not, in general, an argument for eliminating taxes, as they can also have a behavioural effect, but as a society we have no interest in the Danes having to drink more cow's milk on the contrary. We are just dealing with legislation that did not foretell the Danes' choice of plant drink. With the motion for a resolution, the authors want a so-called simplification committee to be set up, which will propose which excise duties should either be amended in order to simplify or removed altogether. I understand that the point of this simplistic committee is that the charges should be looked at in the seams. Although I support the idea, and although I personally have on several occasions highlighted foolish charges, we in the SF do not see why a simplistic committee is necessary in order to put an end to these illogical charges, as it should be dealt with in other ways. So the SF cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, and I should also like to welcome from the Enhedslisten, who is not prepared to vote in favour either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105148	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105152	Today it is the case that there is no levy on lemonade and soda. That could be okay. But if you freeze lemonade for ice cream and sell it, there's an ice cream charge. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur from the SF what is most unhealthy: is it thawed or frozen lemonade?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105214	That is a strong question! I do not think we can say that in general terms. In fact, I have also pointed to the levy in the past as one of the charges that is a little silly. And there are many examples: light bulbs, coffee, chocolate and nuts, where the tax will soon be abolished. I think it's excellent that we focus on these charges. I just don't think it's necessary to have a simplistic committee. But I think it is really nice to hear today about these many examples of silly charges from the rapporteur. In general, I think we should have a political debate on this in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105244	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105245	Thank you. In other words, the rapporteur agrees that taxes which do not have a behavioural or administrative effect should either be simplistic or removed. Then the thing is that people say they won't support the proposal. After all, SF didn't say so, thank you for that because of the funding. Then we'll have to try to find another wider tax base. It could, for example, be done. I would like to say that income tax should rise by 0.01% or whatever it takes, or it could be, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said, that another way would be found. But we will have to find out after the committee has worked. After all, does the rapporteur not think that it would be good to have a dialogue with the business community and the tax authorities to find out what those things are that make no sense? I can mention a lot of funny examples, and I have more on the list, but couldn't it be good to work with business on such things?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105330-2	Yeah, it's great to work with business on this. We do the same thing on a regular basis. In relation to the proposal that I was talking about, namely to simplify the chocolate tax law, we have just a dialogue with the plant sector, which is being hard hit by it. They even came before our committee and told us how foolish the tax is today. So I actually think that we have an ongoing dialogue with business, and I think we can have that without setting up such a committee. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105356	Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105358	Then I get a little confused. I am, of course, in favour of the rapporteur being positive about looking at low-cost taxes. But when you say that you want to do it in a different way, can the rapporteur reveal what is meant by it? How else?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105416	Yeah, I'd love to do it with the limited time I have. In other words, we must be constantly in dialogue with the business community. They're gonna come by and have an appearance like they've had in this situation. As parties, we can also just convene meetings with the various organisations. Fortunately, it is also the case that companies that have an economic interest in spotting or removing some taxes are very good at pointing this out to us, both daily in e-mails and consultation answers etc., but also as something that we can discuss in the Tax Committee. And if you have some taxes that you are particularly interested in, you can also ask the Ministry how it can be possible to simplify it and whether it makes sense. I asked, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So I think that we can have plenty of dialogue with business and work to simplify our tax system without necessarily having to set up such a committee here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105509	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105510	In my ears, though, it sounds loose. Does the rapporteur not think that it is more sensible to put it more into the system? I mean, the previous government got really far with this and wanted to sort of continue the work on it. But compared to this, you get some contact here and there, who just writes, and who does what? Isn't it better that you put it in a system and get an active look at this problem if you actually want to do something with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105536	I also think it is a bit of a list to say that it is not put in a system now and what you will do then is to put it in a system by making a committee. In other words, we have a very fine system that works well, with the presence of committees, with consultation responses to various legislative proposals and with ongoing dialogue with business. I think that a lot of things have been put in place in this area, and we must do what we can to simplify our tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105600	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204105615	Thank you very much for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which we warmly support. The only thing that annoys me is that it is not ourselves who tabled the motion for a resolution. But this is the right way to go, and I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party is putting this on the agenda, so we are some more fighting for simple rules. I will not take much time to argue in favour of the proposal itself, since no rapporteur will ever have to change his mind in debates in the Parliamentary Assembly; but I would like to say a few words in general about simplification, which I think is an extremely important agenda. I have a small business myself. We are 12 to 13 people in total during a high season, and I can say that the worst thing you know as a trader at all is complex rules. That is simply the worst. You just want to be allowed to run your business in peace, be allowed to spend your time getting some customers, caring for your employees, and deliver some good products. Then you'll spend an enormous amount of time on administration. Some of it is here in the Assembly Hall. It is our responsibility that we do not push too much complexity and cumbersome and incomprehensible rules over people's heads, so it will be the case that you have so many rules that you cannot actually see them at the end. It is a huge nuisance for traders in all professions • some more than others • that there are so many rules that you cannot understand them, so you sometimes find yourself in very great uncertainty as to whether you actually comply with the rules. There I think it must be more important for us in this House to ensure a good legal situation in which we have the opportunity, if we want, to be able to understand the rules that apply so that we do not constantly put people in the situation that, even if they want to, it is so difficult to understand the rules that they are going to live in uncertainty constantly. The vast majority of traders would really like to comply with all the tax rules and all the other rules that apply, but you could not actually get started running your business in Denmark if you had to wait for all the rules that apply before starting with it. This means that people have a great deal of uncertainty about, among other things. in the field of taxation, how the rules governing VAT work. What is it like when you acquire some asset? How is this to be deducted and what are the tax rules for it? They are going to spend an enormous amount of time on it, and they are going to spend huge amounts of resources also on hiring accountants and others who are going to help them understand the rules. It's a very, very big nuisance. I myself can mention one of the rules that I myself have been mad at, and that is that when you, for example, are looking at. acquire a vehicle, it is written off differently in the tax account and in the financial statements. That is to say, you have to sit and keep two different accounts, because in one place it is written off by 25%. linearly per year, and in the other place it is written off with, I think 25%. of the remaining balance value. Then two different accounts are kept for the same asset because a tax is paid on an amount, but in the annual accounts there must be another amount. This is the kind of thing that is completely foolish and a great nuisance to the operators that we simply owe it to them to clean up this mess. The reason why this happens is that sometimes in this Chamber we see some small injustices, and then we try to eliminate those injustices by adding an extra rule or making things a little more complicated. There we sometimes have to say: Well it may be that there is a tiny inappropriateness somewhere, but we actually prioritise simplicity so high that we do not introduce the extra rule, the extra scheme, the extra deduction • or whatever it is that helps to make things more troublesome all the time. It therefore requires that we stand up for it, and it requires that we have simplicity very high on our agenda, and that has just not been the case in the Folketing ever. Therefore, in every parliamentary period we have added more and more rules. I hope that the tax minister will take the lead in this and work with us to have more simple tax rules. I think that this is an agenda on which everyone in the Folketing should support it, because it is not a question of the fact that there are necessarily major distributional consequences. It's just making sure that the rules are simple and clear. I also know that in principle everyone in this Parliament will support this simplicity, but one must also be aware that one has to measure it when it becomes concrete and one has to measure that there will be more small injustices around it. And there you have to be able to say with an upright forehead: yes, we know that, and we know that if we introduced one more rule, things would become just a little more just, but we will not, because we prioritise simplicity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110116	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110122	First of all, I want to thank you for your speech. I can say that I fully agree with the recitals. Here is a concrete example which I do not think the rapporteur disagrees with, but I will just mention it anyway. I remember when I was a kid, and you could get some push-opis like that, I think they called it a soda ice cream, and it was a pleasure to have one of those back then. When you go down and buy such a soda ice cream in a store, there is an ice tax on it, but you can also buy it as a frosted ice cream that you freeze when you get home. The only difference is that there is tax if you buy it frozen from the store; if you freeze it at home, there is no charge. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, and that is perhaps a rather leading question: what is the fattest? Is that a bad ice that's frozen in the store, or is that what you're freezing down at home? Is that a regulation that makes sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110204	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110206	I am not an ice-cream expert, but I have noted that over the years there have been many good ice-cream debates in the Danish Parliament. I remember, among other things. Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, who was then appointed child's birthday rapporteur, because we had some similar discussions in the Assembly Hall and I always think it is good to take it up. I just want to say that I fully agree with what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is really asking whether we should abolish some of these silly ice taxes. And I also think that when, for example, you get to work. If we clean up taxes, it should be better to abolish a tax in full than to halve two. At least that was the policy we pursued in the bourgeois government. In fact, when we sometimes carried out tax cuts, we tried to remove some taxes, because there are also costs of having to sit and manage and keep an eye on these various small accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110257	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110258	Thank you for your answer. It is the case that every time we have a tax, some employees also have to be employed to make some kind of check on it, i.e. typically a sample check. And then what you can also ask yourself is that it is essential that you sit and use resources to control, for example. pressure in wine bottles, or how much air comes out of a softice machine, or other things. In other words, one might ask whether it could not be more important that we actually get the rules simplistic, so that tax workers could spend the powder on what was essential; it could be tax havens, or it could be VAT carousel fraud or dividend tax. The levy is worth about 300 million. kr., as has been rightly mentioned, but at the same time we have been cheated on 12.7 billion. kr. in dividend tax. Could it not well be that those employees might have been better spent not controlling the tax but perhaps controlling the tax on dividends or something that really moved some money?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110344	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110345	Yes, I can only agree completely. In fact, I think it should be the case that we did not have any taxes, where the revenue running in the treasury was less than, for example. 80% of what you charge. What I mean by that is if you charge 100 kroner. out in the companies and then 50 kroner goes. It is therefore completely foolish to have such a tax, both in the public and in the business world. That was among other things. That is why, in the last parliamentary term, I made sure that we were able to get rid of the waste charge, where I got some figures that showed that about half of what was taken from companies actually went to administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110425	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110431	Thank you. I share the rapporteur's view of the tax administration. I am also former traders, and much of it is complicated. There is nothing ridiculous about this issue, but I would like to ask what the rapporteur's sincere view is of why what should be done has not been done. There has been a civil government which could have had it as one of its main tasks to clear up the complexity of the tax system, but I think the rapporteur shares my view that it has actually become more complex over the last four years rather than the opposite. So what goes wrong with those processes? I am also hearing the intention of the Conservatives to do what we all want to do, but where does it go wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110516	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110517	It was done, too. When I became Minister of Business I was only a year's time... it was on day two or three or something after I was appointed that I went in to my department chief and said that we should have abolished the garbage fee. Then we just got rid of the garbage fee in the time I had as Minister of Business. At the same time, we presented on the part of the government a catalogue of the abolitions of various administrative rules, which, as far as I remember, ended up with the abolition of 2.5 billion. kr. annually in difficulty with administration. When you take the time you spend in companies and calculate it at an hourly price, we ended up abolishing for approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. administrative difficulties in companies. So we've done a lot. And we have therefore abolished more than what we have introduced by restrictive and cumbersome rules for companies. But the reason why nothing more was done is what I said before, namely that simplicity is not given high priority in this Parliament, nor in the official work, which has a very great responsibility for formulating simple rules for business and citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110627	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110629	Thank you for your answer. Just to be confirmed, I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that for the last four or five years we have experienced a tax system that has become less complex and not a tax system that has become more complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110641	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110644	No, I was talking about what exists in the field of business, because there we have, in relation to restrictive rules that lower the turnover of companies or impose administrative burdens on them, abolished more than we have introduced. But that is why we still have, particularly in the area of taxation, which was not my responsibility as Minister of Business, a great many very, very difficult rules, and one of the most important things we can do for both business and citizens will be to abolish some of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110714	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. I would also like to welcome the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110726	Thank you. In the alternative, we would like to simplify the rules, but we would also very much like to take account of our climate and the environment, which is why we are also pleased to see increased taxes on carrier bags and one-off services adopted under the Finance Act. This also means that we would like to have the tax system reviewed in relation to getting prices that reflect the climate load and look at health in relation to taxes. It is a larger project than there can be in a regulatory simplification committee. This does not mean that we do not also want to look at the simplification or simplification of our tax system, but we want to look first and foremost at the climate impact. That is why we cannot recommend the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are also a few brief comments here. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110830	Well, it's nice that the alternative thinks that the charges should correspond to the burden that the goods have on society. Can the rapporteur confirm that the registration tax on cars is much higher than the overall burden on society, including climate pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110850	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110852	I just have to ask for what the rapporteur says to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110900	I hope I get another question. In other words, the question is: can the rapporteur confirm that the vehicle registration tax is much higher than the car load on society, including its climate impact?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110914	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110916	The reason I probably didn't quite get it in the first place is because I thought you couldn't put it up quite that simple. After all, cars are burdened, and taxes reduce it a little or force people to or they should like to buy the cars that are least burdened.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110933	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204110935	But that is just because the alternative rapporteur said that the tax should be proportionate to the burden on society. I think that is a very good principle. But that also means that, in all places where taxes are much higher than the burden on society, they must be reduced. However, I think it has to be said that the policy of the alternative is obviously simply that taxes should be levied on things that burden, even if the tax is already at a level that exceeds the burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111005	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111006	That's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111015	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111017	The rapporteur mentioned, as an example, that we were pleased with the tripling of the one-off service tax, also because it should reflect how much it actually uses resources or also pollutes and such things. This may of course make sense, but can the rapporteur not reflect on the fact that a new one-off service has actually been developed, which is in such a biodegradable material as, among other things, one. Roskilde Festival uses? I think you can throw the beer jar or sausage tray out in the wild, and then it is simply dissolved in nature. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that they are now going to have a threefold increase in tax? And does what the rapporteur said just now make sense, so that it should reflect what is actually used by resources and other things? Because if they are made of bio-friendly natural materials, which, unfortunately, weigh more than the plastic source materials, then it makes it less competitive for those materials that are actually good. But it is the whole bad wolf on which the tax is now tripled. Does the rapporteur himself think that it makes sense to double the tax on one-off services, which is actually degradable and which, in principle, can be thrown into the wild, not because you have to do so, but if it does, will it actually be dissolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111116	Thank you. The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111117	I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is not reasonable for biodegradable disposable services to be taxed in the same way as plastic end-of-life services. But there is also a passage in the Finance Act that we need to look at how this can make sense. And then, of course, one thing is our visions and intentions; another is sometimes reality, that is, what we get through with. But I still hope that we get it done in such a way that the biodegradable does not get hit twice, because it actually does here, because it is also heavier, and it is a weight-based charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111200	Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111201	Well, it's fine with some talk, almost chitchat, I'd say, that you hope you can look at it later. But what becomes the reality of the Finance Act when we come to deal with the bill as far as I remember, it is actually tomorrow that the biodegradable will be tripled in tax. So it's okay to talk about it later, but shouldn't you do it first? Isn't that the kind of reverse order? You start by tripled the tax on what is biodegradable, and then you look later at whether you can exempt it. Shouldn't it be the other way around?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111228	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111229	Now I would like to maintain that the Finance Act says that we must look at how we will place the biodegradable in relation to the plastic-based disposable service. And then it is also the case that the things that have been decided in the Finance Act are, of course, things that have to be dealt with further in committee and in the legislative procedure afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111250	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111257	New citizens are, as the name says, a bourgeois party. That is why we are fundamentally opposed to behavioral taxes. It is not up to the Folketing to moralize or politicize the people. This resolution is about crazy and crazy taxes, and we have to look at whether we should have them abolished. We are, of course, very much in favour of this in the New Citizens' Party. But I cannot help wondering why it has not been done. Some of the charges mentioned in the motion for a resolution are not taxes which have just been drawn attention to exist, because they also existed under the previous government. It was both under the Left Government and under the VLAK Government. There was a blue majority, so what kind of parties weren't willing to abolish these taxes? Of course, there was a loss of revenue, but you had to fix it if you thought that these taxes were so harmful and so bad that they had to go away. We are happy to take part in a discussion on removing taxes, and New Citizens will vote in favour of removing taxes. We can also basically support the resolution. Now I have had to do ten years with politics and official work, and if there is anything I have learned, it is not for the official work to be asked to find simplifications, because that makes them unemployed. So I think it is important that there is also a focus on business, i.e. that it is business that has to come in, and then we politicians may have to talk to business. But these are things that we can talk about in connection with this motion for a resolution. But basically we are opposed to behavioral taxes in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111451	Thank you. There are also a few brief comments here, first from Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111453	After all, it is quite fair that one can be opposed to behavioral taxes. In fact, we are not in the Danish People's Party. We think it might be a good thing that there is a tax, for example. on tobacco, because smoking is unhealthy. But if we simply accept that they are there, and I think the rapporteur is doing so today, is it not agreed that they should not, after all, distort competition? The SF's rapporteur said that, if it is cocoa milk, it is without chocolate tax, but not if it is plant-based cocoa drink. In other words, two clearly competing products are one with a tax, and the other is not. This obviously does not make sense, and I really just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111528	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111529	Absolutely. That is also why New Citizens have the best solution, and that is to remove all taxes. Then we are completely free from this debate about where to put them, whether it is higher, whether you put them on bubbles in lemonade or not. I mean, it's gonna be a lot of trouble, and we have a business community out there that's gonna try to manage according to all the laws we're doing in here, and it's gonna cost money. So I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111552	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111554	Of course, the easy solution would be to abolish the chocolate tax, because it is just really expensive, but it could also be that it could be arranged differently so that it would be simpler to administer, and that is why we are proposing this committee so that we could have the dialogue with the business community. Well, you could go two ways. You could say that both of them were exempt from tax, or you could say that they were both subject to tax, and I could actually live with both, but at least it has to be the same if you take this view of competition into account, and that was precisely the purpose of the committee. It is not, of course, a question of abolishing a 2 billion chocolate tax. kr., I think it pays. It could also just be that you could arrange it differently, so that after all it hit the same and was manageable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111627	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111628	So absolutely, and that is why we are in favour of the motion for a resolution. So in this way we do not disagree, and the Danish People's Party kicks an open door in here. But now that we have a state, a public with over 1 150 billion. kr. I think we can find the money to lighten these taxes, which are completely wasted and which are damaging to the business community out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111653	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Carl Valentin from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111656	Thank you. The rapporteur says several times that new citizens are basically opposed to behavioral taxes. I just want to know whether that means that New Citizens' quite want to remove the tax on cigarettes and what consequences it will have for public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111715	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111716	Now, of course, the rapporteur is apologising for doing other things, but we have actually debated cigarette prices here in the Parliament, and I explained that New Citizens' Basics would also like to remove the tax on cigarettes, but that there are a large number of taxes that we believe come first, and in our economic policy we have not entered into a tax reduction on cigarettes because there are some other taxes that we believe come first. But basically, we are opposed to behavioral taxes. So I have explained that earlier here, and I am happy to do so again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111746	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. At least you haven't gotten in, but now it's coming. Here you go, sir. I'll give Carl Valentin the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111756	Thank you. I'm new in here, too, and I need to learn. The reason I was not there during that debate was that it was our health rapporteur who debated cigarette taxes. But I really just want to hear something. Now we are faced with a climate and biodiversity crisis threatening our society quite considerably. Does the rapporteur not recognise that behavioral taxes can be a very good way of ensuring that, as a society, we ensure that people do not fly so much, or whatever it may be, that we harm the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111829	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111830	No, I don't. Because the way you knit taxes together in here from the Folketing is that they really do not have much importance, but that they harm business and they harm citizens, and often they have a social arrow that turns downwards so that it will hurt. It can, for example, be done. be an airline tax. Now, if we add 50 kroner. or 100 kroner. On a flight, who hurts it the most? People in here from the Folketing who fly for free, the director, or the people who just can afford to take a trip or two? It's just one example of how the social arrow usually points down, and so does it with electricity and other taxes. After all, it is considerably more expensive for a pensioner to have to pay the taxes than it is for a large family who earns a lot of money out in a good neighborhood. So, no, I absolutely don't think they work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111910	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204111918	Thank you and thank the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution which we would very much like to vote for. It is a good resolution which points out that we have a number of financially justified taxes in Denmark that have been placed on the goods at a time when you just needed some money. Some of them are probably from the time when Ole Stavad was the tax minister in Denmark, where one could not go to a festival in Denmark without there being an Easter reform or a Pentecost reform or a Christmas reform with several taxes that had to be paid, more taxes that had to be paid, to make a red Finance Act hang together. That is the main reason for these charges, i.e. that the Reds often have to have a bill of finance to hang together, and that is why they have introduced these taxes in order to get money for some expenses. After all, the red people love spending, and then they say such things about the fact that we have the charges in order to prevent the harmful effects of the goods on society, for example. pollution and unhealth, etc., and if it were just that, the Liberal Alliance would have nothing to put off on that tax. We are in favour, for example, of the fact that we are in favour. Smokers pay a tax on cigarettes, which corresponds to the costs of health care, because smokers are more often ill and more often have to be treated, but the amount of the cigarette tax that they have today and it becomes even greater is not in fact justified by the fact that it corresponds to the cost of poor health among smokers. The tax is higher than the cost of health care by smoking, and we are not in favour of it. We are in favour of the fact that when you drive a number of kilometres in a car you pay a tax for that which corresponds to the cost of building the roads and that you have to repair the roads and also to the accidents that are happening and which have some socio-economic costs, and also the pollution that is happening. We are in favour of this. But the tax on cars is far higher than that, and every time we talk about why we do not lower the tax on cars, so it corresponds to the cost that society has by driving cars on the roads, the answer is also: well, we cannot afford that. We think that is a problem. We think it is a problem that there are taxes which are so poorly designed that they prevent people from living the life they want by the fact that the tax is too high in a certain way to live in relation to the cost that the way of life has for society. So we want an expert group to be set up similar to the one proposed by the Danish People's Party here, which looks at: How can we have the taxes knitted together so that the tax burden corresponds to the pressure on society in terms of related expenditure? I also think it would be appropriate to make sure that we also have some taxes and some taxes where the revenue for the Treasury is far too small in relation to the socio-economic cost of having the tax or tax. Let me take the clearest example, and now I return to the cars. If you lower car taxes by 1 billion. kr. from the top, Danish car owners with the consumption they have today actually get 1 billion. kr. in relief, but the Treasury only misses 200 million. kr., i.e. one fifth of what you lighten the tax on, because there is so much distortion and so much change in behaviour and so many things going wrong in this car tax, that society becomes poorer of it, because if they had been allowed to keep that money, then they would have bought a safer car or a more green car, or they would have worked something more because they could then look forward to getting a better car with what they have in profits after tax. That is why too much is being destroyed by a number of taxes and taxes that we have, in relation to the benefit it does in the Treasury. So if you have a self-financing rate of 80%. By lowering a tax or a tax, you should do so. But we support the resolution here, and if you do not support this resolution, it is because you do not mean it seriously when you say that you want a better and more sensible tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112409	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking this seriously. At least that was the impression I had when I heard the rapporteur's speech. I would actually like to draw attention to the problem of the chocolate tax, as the former rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen asked the Treasury about. He asked what the chocolate tax was for a chocolate cake which was fully coated with chocolate, and there he got the answer that then it was the whole cake that was covered by the chocolate tax. The question was then asked: if one imagined that it was a chocolate cake that was half coated with chocolate, how much was the chocolate tax? And the answer was so little comical that it depends on a laboratory test. It seems a little weird somehow, doesn't it? I'm not sure if my local baker in Snejbjerg has a lab in the back or a Laborant employee who can just check how much chocolate there is in the cake so that he can then pay the right chocolate tax. Again it may be a bit of a leading question, but I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not really think it makes sense to have a tax which cannot even the Treasury answer how to settle, because how can we expect business to be able to settle how to pay this chocolate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112514	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112515	Well, I totally agree. After all, it should not just be ashamed of the Danish People's Party because a sensible resolution has been tabled here. I would like to point out to the Danish People's Party that it was not the fault of the Left that it was not the fault of Conservatives and that it was not the fault of the Liberal Alliance that we did not reduce taxes further during the last parliamentary term. It was the fault of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112538	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112539	Of course, we can always discuss this. But we made together a business package that actually got really good. When the government, in which the Liberal Alliance was involved, came up with a proposal for it, there were no tax reductions in it, and you can check that by reading what the agreement was subsequently, and you will see that there were a great many tax reductions in it, including things that were removed. So you just look up the history and see what it was that you came up with and what the result ended up being. However, there are also other places where I admit that it did not end up in that direction, and the car charges were one of the taxes that we were happy to lower with open eyes, but that was not the high rate that was put down. True, there may be different directions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112618	We did many good things in the majority that was from 2015 to 2019, we lowered many taxes, and the Danish People's Party was involved, but we could have done more. That is why it is a little strange that we in this House have a criticism of the fact that we still have those taxes, because I do not think that the Danish People's Party played a positive role in that we could have reduced the taxes more. In fact, the Danish People's Party opposed this. The Danish People's Party did not want tax cuts to be excessive during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112646	Thank you. There is just one brief comment to make, and that is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112653	I would like to ask a little about the basic premise of the Liberal Alliance about the fact that taxes should cover the actual level of costs, for example. On cars. After all, we agree that the taxes must be completely abolished. Does this also apply if costs are going to rise? In other words, if we take public transport, then there are no taxes on public transport which cover the cost of it at all, so if the premise applies there, then it also applies if there are areas where it would be more expensive, for example. in public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112727	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112728	Yeah, if the public transport and I think it's true what Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says here that he does not pay the charges that cover the negative effects of driving buses, diesel trains or the like around, so it should do so. However, I do not believe that diesel is exempt from the tax when it is filled on a bus or a train.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112755	So I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance and welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Liberal Alliance. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204112804	Thank you. Thank you for the debate and, in particular, thank you to the blue parties for wanting to support the proposal. But I would like to start by saying that I also think it has been a rather awkward debate, because there was such a typical Christiansborg in it, so if there is a blue government, one will typically always support the red resolutions, and here it is the red ones who sit with the majority, and then one will not support the blue resolutions because one does not want to give them credit for it. And then it has been deliberately chosen to misread the resolution and to say that it depends on funding, even if it does not require funding. After all, it is a question of getting a basis for decision-making so that we can make things simpler. I think it is really a pity when politicians themselves get politicians in their own way, so maybe I think it's getting a little out of hand. I mean, I think it is such a shame to have a debate where you deliberately misread a proposal just to have some reason to say no to it. Honestly, I think it's a little lame. For frankly, this is not meant to be a debate about whether the tax should be up or down. In fact, I think it is a pity that it is being seen as such. It is actually to try to get it in a new direction, because it is obvious that there are some who think that the tax should go up and that others think it should go down, but should we not be able to agree that it should be simpler, so that it can be administered both by the business community and by the tax administration? I think that some of the problems we have with the tax administration are due to the fact that the tax rules have become so complicated that the tax administration cannot even find out for itself, and the chocolate tax is one of them. It is also impossible to digitise our tax system because it has become so complicated. So I was actually hoping that we could have a debate on this and that we could agree that we could make it simpler. And then we could always disagree as to whether the tax should be up or down. The focus has actually been on the fact that taxes can be good enough if they are behavior-regulating, that is to say that we have to eat healthier or use fewer resources or use less energy. But there are just a lot of charges that are not behavioural regulation and that do not make sense. I actually came on this one day during the parliamentary elections, when I was in a debate with Mette Frederiksen and Lars Løkke Rasmussen. And I remember her holding up such an auto bulb for a car and asking if it made sense that such a rose with 50 cents. After all, the Social Democrats and the Left felt that it did not make sense. But the real question was: why is there even a tax on a light bulb for a car? Because there is a legal requirement that we should have light bulbs in the car and that there should be light on, so that tax has no behavior-regulating effect. It is not the case that people change the bulb every four weeks to make sure that it does not jump, or that when you come home from work, you leave the car with light on for half an hour extra. So it has no behavioral controlling effect. So instead of discussing whether the tax should go up or down on an auto bulb for a car, should we not discuss whether we should have that tax at all? Then it might be that we should not have the discussion about whether the tax should be reduced, that it might be something else that we taxed instead of a wider base where we could not cheat on it, but where there was actually some behavior regulation. I think that there are numerous examples, and I have mentioned many of them today on issues such as: the charge on air in softice. I have not yet met anyone who thinks it is a fantastic logical tax. There is an average of 65 per cent. Air in softice. The tax administration could not manage it because there are different amounts of air in the different machines pumping air into the ice, so a standard swell rate has been created which is at least easy to administer for the tax administration. But it still doesn't make sense. We do not have a tax on lemonade, but if you freeze lemonade for ice, there is an ice levy. If you make frosty with exactly the same amount of lemonade in, there is no charge on it, because you freeze it first at home. And what's most unhealthy? I think everyone can say that it is logical that it is equally unhealthy. Couldn't we make it simpler? I mean, it's not a question of whether they're going up or down, but it has to be simpler. One of the worst things to watch out for in relation to what Christiansborgfnidder is the levy on the wine tax, that is to say on sparkling wine. As I have mentioned, if there is 3 bar pressure at 20 degrees, there is an additional charge. It is about cheap Asti and champagne, and when you as a politician put your head out and suggest it, it is a champagne reform, and then no one dares do anything about it. This is not, of course, about funding, so could we not just agree that we removed the additional levy on air bubbles in an Asti and said that it could then be the wine tax that could be a little higher? Then we would have solved that problem if it was the funding that you were upset about. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If there is a biscuit with vanilla cream and another biscuit with chocolate cream, there may in principle be equally many unhealthy things in them, but if it is with vanilla cream, it is free of charge, and if it is with chocolate cream, it is with taxes. And if that's why people get fat, they're just fat, no matter what crackers they eat. I think there are so many things to deal with. The chocolate tax is another tax. It is from 1922 and was introduced as a luxury tax to protect our balance of payments, but it is just arranged so it is completely impossible to administer. I asked Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen was asked a question about the fact that if there is a cake that is fully coated, it is with full chocolate tax, but if it is half-coated, it is a laboratory study that will have to decide. Well, can we offer our companies that we have such tax rules? A baker doesn't have a lab worker working for it. And when the Treasury itself can't figure out how to calculate the tax, it might well be that we in the Danish Parliament would have to go through it again. What about the coffee charge? Could you imagine anything more Danish than sitting and drinking coffee? It is not even unhealthy, but because at some point it was a luxury tax to protect our balance of payments, we have just left it alone because it is such a good thing financially. Should we not remove the tax on coffee and then perhaps raise the base tax by 0.01%, or what it takes, i.e. a wider base? My argument is, of course, that every time we have a tax, there is a tax officer who has to check whether it is being cheated. As I mentioned, the Ice Tax provides 300 million. Wouldn't it be better for the people who are sitting and checking that we pay the right tax, whether it's frysselvis or softice or the air in softice, to check profit tax instead? I mean, these 300 million. kr. and the 12.7 billion. kr., for which we have been cheated, corresponds to 42 years of revenue. Imagine if the tax officials had checked some of the important things it could be VAT carousel fraud, where in just one case, which Jyllands-Posten has sketched out, we have been cheated for 1 billion. kr.; it could be by terrorists where the money might have gone to Syria. Imagine if these employees had not checked ice taxes but had checked VAT. No one knows if they would have stopped it, but it is also for the benefit of the tax administration that it is not only for the sake of business or for the sake of the people, but also for the sake of the tax administration, so that you can actually manage the rules and spend the powder on what it is important to control. Well, I think we owe the Danes tax rules, which you can actually see through, but also that it will be easier to digitise it, so that we can actually do it more streamlined in one way or another. I would just like to conclude by saying that I think it is a pity if it depends on whether you are in favour of or against funding, on whether you can support it here, because it is about getting a basis for decision-making in exactly the same way as with the old committee that was set up, that is to say where they also came up with a basis and where they had talked to business about what was not worth and what did not make sense, and then we sat down and discussed from the political team, which things we would then prioritise, and there we did not all prioritize. It is true, as the radical rapporteur says: let us look at the things in the old catalogue that have not yet been implemented. Well, that's where we could start. We could start by obtaining a basis for decision, and then industry and the tax administration could come together to find out what does not actually make sense. And then we could prioritise it and say: it may be that only 5 out of 100 measures we do something about; it may also be 0, and it may also be all of them. But there we can deal with the political disagreement about how we will finance it and what is going to be up and what is going to be down. But to start by rejecting that we should have a basis for decision on it at all, because there is a lack of funding, and because I have mentioned a few examples in my motion for a resolution, I really think that we are rejecting it and using it as a base argument, that it is because there are examples in the resolution of what could be looked at. The rapporteur of the new Civil Liberties Committee was right in what he said earlier about the fact that I should have just left some examples out of it, because then we would have supported it or what? In other words, I can table an amendment to the second reading, taking out the examples, so that there is only the main text left to set up a committee to look at it here in cooperation with the business community. Because that's exactly what we're all saying we want to do. So if the examples have been tampered with, I assume that then we can all support it, and that is quite fine for me. For the Danish People's Party it is not important that the examples are there, but it was like just to show the need for this. So I hope that we can all support this if we get the examples out of it, because then there is no funding at all, I understand. I think it is a pity if the level is to be where you just to tease each other you cannot agree that the rules should be simpler. Then we can then discuss what should be up or down, but that the rules should be simpler, I think we should at least be able to gather together. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113615	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are a few brief comments, and first it is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113621	They must be simpler, but often it is also a decision about whether to accept that the state has a loss of revenue by it; that one should accept that it is cheaper for business to do it here. And when you do not remove taxes, when it can benefit business and citizens, because you absolutely want to maintain the world's second highest tax burden, and it becomes more important to maintain the world's second highest tax burden than to make it cheaper for citizens and business to jump off the chain for me. Because in the last period there was therefore a blue majority, so if we had accepted that there would be a loss of revenue for the state, if we had made the public sector slightly smaller, a large number of these taxes could have been removed, which are too low and which make no sense for citizens and business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113717	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113718	We were in that exercise with the previous government. We did, for example. A business package and the Radicals were also included in the work, for example. removed the additional levy on alcoholic drinks, but where it turned out that 60%. of all the alcohol soft drinks that were consumed in Denmark were bought in Germany. And then you might ask: was it so healthier that all of them were bought in Germany? No, it didn't, because then you just bought twice as many instead and drank them. And it also showed that total alcohol consumption in Denmark would increase by 0.01%, as far as I remember. It was a bit like the Danes were just going to have trouble driving to Germany and it was going to hurt the Danish business community. So we have actually taken a step in relation to it. That is true, of course, what lies in the question of whether it could not just become cheaper instead of something else having to rise in taxes. Yes, but that is what we need to find out when the committee has made their recommendations. For then we can take the old travert, where there are clearly obvious political differences. Some think the treasure should go down, some think it should go up, and some think it should just be simpler like myself. There, however, we can then discuss how we should finance it at that time. For then it may well be that there could be some things where we could make things smarter in the public sector, but it could also be that we could re-order the tax in a way that would make it simpler without necessarily costing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113825	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113827	Are the examples that the rapporteur then gives us, which were totally wrong examples, just examples of things that have not been achieved? Too much of that is a simplification. So are these just examples of things that have not been achieved in the last reign?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113841	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113842	No, I actually think it's because there's a focus on something else. You'd have to say that. The chocolate tax is from 1922 on there have been nicely many governments since then, so one cannot at least excuse oneself that one has not achieved it. I just don't think there's been any focus on that. And that's what I'm hoping for now. But someone has to take it up, and I hope that we can stand together in this not to make it my business, but to make it our business to have simpler tax rules. So many of these charges, after all, have not been introduced by anyone in the last 5, 7 or 8 years. These are old relics of the past, which typically protect the balance of payments, and they have just not been removed or done anything about it. I think it's just a lack of focus from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113917	Then I would like to give the floor to the Social Democrat, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204113923	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for presenting this resolution and also during the debate entertain with many of these examples of seemingly silly and unnecessary charges. The rapporteur has said on several occasions that there is a charge on air in softice, but is it not the case that there is no charge on air in softice, but that there is a tax on ice cream, which is used to produce softice, and that this really does make sense, because it is due to the fact that the levy must be the same for softice, which is produced in the ice cream of ice cream, and then the ice cream that the kiosk buys from the producer? If it were different, it would create a tax incentive to choose one type of ice over the other. Then there is also the fact that, for administrative reasons, the levy is paid by producers and importers of ice cream and ice cream rather than, for example, by producers and importers. of the little ischiosk. Then it makes sense, too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114039	So I would like to say so much that it is not called a tax on the air in softice; it is called a swelling charge. That means that it is taxed in the swollen state. And what does that mean? Yes, that means that it is also the air in the ice that is charged to the ice mass, but it is also the air. On average it is 65% that a softice is pumped up with air • some 70%, some 50%. In both the examples mentioned by the rapporteur, why could it not just be the base mass that was taxed if it were to be made simpler? Why should it be in the frozen state that is being sold at the counter when it turns out that it is so administratively heavy that the tax administration cannot find out for itself and they simply have to make a standard swell rate because there are precisely different amounts of air in it, and that must then be checked for each softice machine? Well, couldn't we try to consider whether it could be made a little simpler? And it is true that when we make it simpler, there are some who will be pressed by it, because we have simply created such a detailed tax law today that it has to be millimeter democracy, and if you make it simpler, there will of course be some that will suffer. But why not put the tax on the base mass instead of in the bloated state where the air is included in the extent of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114148	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114149	But is it not exactly the case that my question to the rapporteur here is that both the Social Democratic Party and the tax minister have expressed their support for the intention of this motion for a resolution today, and that we would very much like to be involved in looking at whether some of these taxes might be released and that we need to do so in dialogue with our businesses, our business community, and that we have also pointed out that in this debate it is therefore absolutely necessary to point out the lower revenue that will arise and that the lower revenue will have to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114231	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114232	Again, I do not know whether it is because you have not read the proposal or whether you will deliberately misunderstand it. It's about getting a basis for decision. Just as the old committee has made some recommendations, you could sit down and find out what you would do about it. As far as financing is concerned, we could imagine removing this additional levy on wine, i.e. the 3 bar pressure at 20 degrees, and just raising the general wine tax. How much money would it cost? We'd get simpler tax rules, you'd cost something? I can also remove all the examples so that they are not there at all, so the motion for a resolution does not cost anything. I mean, it's about getting a basis for decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114311	There is a brief comment from Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114316	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for raising such a very, very exciting debate. It is, of course, very, very unfortunate if the rapporteur gets politicians; it should not be the intention of the work we are doing in here. In fact, what I hear in this debate across the House is that there is a party-crossing desire to actually use taxes and charges to regulate behaviour so that we have a better society, better health, a better climate and so on. Could it be imagined that instead of working to set up a trade committee, we could call it a committee of conduct without having to sound too much to George Orwellsk? Here we could perhaps look at which types of charges are not particularly behavior-regulating and whether we could turn down some of them, for example. those proposed by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and those proposed by the rapporteur himself, and then, in order to maintain revenue neutrality, we could turn others up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114421	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114423	I think that is a good constructive proposal, which we can talk about very well. In other words, we have a working tool in the Folketing called a parliamentary working group with which we have had great success in the past. We can, of course, make a sub-group in the Tax Committee where we can sit and work on these things and also have hearings and go on foreign trips or ask around other countries how to organize. I mean, we're probably not the only ones who have had a tax on ice. I honestly don't know. But thank you for that. After all, this is a different constructive proposal to find ways of working. I have then proposed this committee, but it could also be other ways; I am not in any way opposed to that. I just think that we should work together to make things simpler after all, and then we could disagree on whether the tax should generally be up or down. But that it should be simpler, I think we should get along.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114503	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114505	In any case, we are all, I can hear, agreed that we would like to aim at. But there is another aim here, namely the behavioural regulation in it, and perhaps we could actually use this opportunity to actually put our heads together and qualified our tax system so that it fits better with the society we have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114525	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114526	I fully agree with that. It is also a premise in this motion for a resolution that there is a tax on a great many things that are not behavioural regulation, for example. The car light bulb I mentioned. When there is a legal requirement that there should be light on the car, what are we going to be behavior-regulating by charging a tax on the car light bulb? Well, there's no effect. Couldn't it be that it might have to go away? Then, of course, we have to finance it in a different way, and it could then be at a different tax, which was more behavior-regulating, in other words where it made sense. It could also just be a broader tax base where you had to sacrifice the bottom tax or something else. It is not to say that this is exactly what needs to be cross-financing, but we could tax what makes sense instead of taxing all sorts of things that have no behavior-regulating effect or that do not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204114602	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Dennis Flydtkjær. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I would therefore like to postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130002	The meeting is open. I have to inform you that those of Jacob Jensen under No. Question No 9 and Question No 13, by Mr S 384 and S 385, to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities, will be answered at the request of the author. 10.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130033	We shall now proceed to the next item on the agenda, namely the reply to questions forwarded to the ministers. And that is how I can say to the audience that a member of the Folketing has the right on Fridays to send questions to a minister. In other words, one question is being asked which is being read and then there are a few options for asking follow-up questions, so that there is a real dialogue between minister and member of parliament. It is usually quite exciting to overhear and participate in the debate and I welcome everyone to join us as we take the first question, namely the Minister of Justice. And the questioner is Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130119	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's view that many criminal cases are being placed in the hands of the police because of lack of resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130132	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130133	I am very concerned, as I think the questioner is, about the increase in the number of cases in the prosecution, just as I am concerned that the files are growing and that the length of proceedings is increasing both with the police and with the prosecution. In my opinion, the fundamental problem is that we have a police force and a prosecutor who is tense to the breaking point. This means that all too often a victim of a crime does not receive the treatment in the judicial system with the speed he or she can expect. In fact, I think that if I were to say what is the greatest task that is on my table right now, it would be one of the absolute candidates for it, and something needs to be done about that. On the specific question of provisions, I have no basis to claim that the police or the prosecution place cases on grounds of lack of resources. It goes without saying that a case must of course be dismissed only if it is the professional judgement that is the basis for not taking any further steps in order to arrive at a charge, an indictment and, ultimately, a verdict. We face a number of challenges in the police and the prosecution, which have grown increasingly, it must be said, over a number of years, and therefore we cannot solve the problems overnight. I think that in order to resolve this, we need to take a more fundamental approach and that it requires more comprehensive measures, and that is one of them, perhaps also one of the most important things, which we have, among other things, done. together, but also with the other parties in the Folketing must talk about when we are going to discuss the new multi-annual agreement for the police and prosecutor's office. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the fact that 50 million have been allocated to the Finance Act which has just been concluded. kr. It is a very good start for the prosecution to be strengthened, which can ensure more hands to deal with matters. But I am also aware that this is not enough to solve the fundamental problems we face in these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130338	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130340	The question has been asked because, as the Minister of Justice probably does, we are being approached by citizens who have been exposed to crime. After all, it is deeply unhappy citizens who have really had a really ugly experience that can help make their lives very different for a long time. To the extent that you have been exposed to such a thing, it is certainly important that the authorities find out very quickly what has happened, and if you can find the perpetrator, they will be charged with having the person convicted in court. That is where I think it is offensive to the right-of-law conscience if there is too much time in this context. If you look at the recent figures that we have been looking at in the Danish People's Party, you have to recognise that the number of provisions that have happened recently is very large. But when you talk to representatives of the police, you get the clear impression that one of the reasons is that you simply do not have the resources to investigate, to find the perpetrator, to get the person convicted in the end. Then it is clear that you have a desire to ensure that cases do not just lie for years to close the cases. On the other hand, however, there are some citizens who think that this is deeply unsatisfactory, and I would like to hear from the government whether any thought has been given to how this is going to change immediately. Well, we have asked from the Danish People's Party that we hire more police officers. Now we have a situation where there are empty seats at the police school both in Jutland and on Zealand, and we wonder. Well, here due diligence was supposed to show us that we are doing something now and here. So I would like to hear broadly: what will the government do? Will there be more police officers, better and faster procedures, so that citizens get help?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130553	I agree with the problem diagnosis, and fortunately it is the case with the financial law that has been drawn up that there will be more police officers, namely 150 more, and then there will also be more money for the prosecution, i.e. the extra 50 million. kr., which will help you to get rid of some of these far too big piles of cases that we unfortunately have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130618	Yes, and I think it is a small step along the way that there is a lump of overtime being paid out to the police and that a little more lawyers are being employed, but again it is probably very, very little, it is going to battling, when you are still operating just with the continuation of the police agreement that is in place. In the Danish People's Party, we wonder why, at a time when police officers are really lacking, there are empty seats, so we can't understand why the government doesn't do why, when you have the chance, you don't set aside money to have 300 net more officers at the police school, so you get full pressure on the boilers at the police school, so we get trained the cops that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130706	There's going to be a record of 150 cops. I believe that when no more people are currently admitted, it is because in the agreement that has been reached, and of which the questioner is also a part, there has been a target figure for how many officers there should be in the force by the end of the year, and it has been said that once that objective has been achieved, we are where we should be. Now we are going to include additional officers who will, of course, give more people over the coming years, as well as more money for the prosecution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130737-2	Yes, the thing about the prosecution is true, but once again, when, in the summation that has been made, about how many police officers we will get by 2020, you consider that there will be empty seats, you have the opportunity to hire more police officers. Now that you have the chance and you have a financial law, when you have decided to postpone the police agreement until next year, you could, after all, do the only right thing in the short term, namely from 2020 to employ significantly more officers. We must remember that some of these cases are dragging on for such a long time that we have to give the perpetrator a discount, and it is quite grotesque in a community of law that the perpetrator gets a discount because the police and the prosecution do not have enough resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130824	But the reality is that there will be more officers next year and that by 2020 we will have a police force that has more officers than at least back to the police reform in 2007. Over the last 13 years, then, 2020 will so far be the year in which there are most police officers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130845	Thank you. Now some of the listeners may wonder why the President sometimes stands up. That is because neither the Minister nor the Member of Parliament can speak unlimitedly. The first time they have to spend 2 minutes, and next time they have to spend 1⁄2 minutes, and then to give them careful help to know that the time is running out, the President will stand up without disturbing them, but then they can move on. Each member of parliament must ask two questions, and Mr. Peter Skaarup also made, and he is also asking question number 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130918	The President is quite right that it is really a pity that there is no more speaking time for each individual question, but that is the way the rules are. Now I am asking you something else, and that is Question 2: What is the Minister's position that drivers of emergency vehicles are currently in danger of high fines and of losing their driving licences and jobs just because they are doing their job and are driving in a hurry to save lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204130942	But drivers of emergency vehicles are doing an incredibly important and significant job, and it is absolutely crucial that they get to the emergency situations that may be present. This means that there may be a need to override speed limits with emergency vehicles. Basically, on the other hand, speed control is good and important, which among other things. must ensure that we can do something about driving madness and so on, and it is also quite right that today there is a challenge with speeding tickets from stark boxes in relation to emergency vehicles. This is because the pictures from the starling boxes are in black and white, which is why you cannot see whether the vehicle is moving forward and, at the same time, there is not, as in the automatic trolleys, an operator who, when the picture can be taken, can make sure that it does not move forward, because when you are in an emergency situation, of course there is no need to pay a fine. We need to find a solution to this problem with the starlings, and the National Police are fully aware that these are challenges that are not fair, that the officers, the rescuers, etc., who are just doing their job, but who, in an emergency situation, are being blitzed and are about to explain whether there was a response, whether it was relevant, all sorts of things, and we must prevent that situation. What the National Police have said is that you can expect action to be taken in relation to the problem at the beginning of the new year, and it is my expectation that this will lead to the actors in the preparedness, not at all having as much trouble with this type of case as what we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131122	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131123	It goes without saying that all of us in our society need police and fire services, emergency vehicles, to be able to come forward quickly, and we do a lot of things for that in everyday life, in other words by taking into account traffic that it can happen. Therefore, it seems quite, totally good night that these people who drive too fast in the service of a good cause, one must say, are being dragged through the mud because they have now allowed themselves to do what is part of their work. That is why I think it is good that the Minister for Justice says that there is a solution on the way. But I would also like to say that, having completed this matter over a period of time, it is something that has taken a long time and many things have been promised. By November at the latest, the preparations for the various backgrounds that they have, at least on this matter, have said that there is complete agreement here that a solution must now be found. Because we have people who have been dragged through a lot of bureaucracy and feel that they are risking their jobs in reality because they have done what is part of their jobs. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice when exactly a solution will be found. Many things have been promised in this matter, many improvements have been promised, and that is why we may have also been some of us who have said that hopefully somebody is going to take care of that. But it just hasn't been fixed. So will the Minister of Justice promise to take action against those who have to sit with this? I guess it shouldn't be so hard to make sure that those who drive blue winks don't get a speeding ticket.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131314	There has to be a way that can be a technical solution that is being examined, i.e. whether you can get the systems to do such a thing that this problem is eliminated, and then there is a way that there are a few procedures when these pictures are taken to ensure that you don't have to go through all of this. What is happening at the moment is that the authorities affected by this problem are talking and trying to figure out how to solve it. The National Police are working hard to solve this, and the report from the National Police to me is that at the beginning of the new year, a solution will be presented as if it did not remove the problem completely, so at least it will be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131359	Once again, I think it is a good thing that we are being told here that a solution will be found at the beginning of the new year. But I remember so many situations in which the Danish Parliament has been promised that now there will also be a report there and there, and that now we will have to deal with something in the course of the summer and that year too, where the summer has long since passed, when some of us have come up with the presentation that was needed to deal with it. So I would like to know whether the Minister could not make a date here today. Well, is it January 1st, is it February 1st? Then those people who are really plagued by this could be sure that everything is being done to find the right solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131443	What is the problem with promising a date is that, and I think the questioner has also experienced even a lot of times that what no time takes is 15 minutes, and the rest takes twice as long. Often it turns out that there are studies that should be carried out, which are not just predicted. There are niches of the problem, which must also be addressed, etc. What I can say is that it is being worked on and that it has been promised that a solution will be found at the beginning of the new year. I will, of course, keep an eye on that and I know that the questioner will also keep a zealous eye on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131513	The questioner with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131514	What I have to say here is that what I understand from the Minister is that a technical solution is being worked out. I really don't care if it's a very technical and fine IT solution or if it's a manual solution. I just think we have to say from in here in relation to those who are working on this and who are probably trying to do some things, that a solution needs to be found. And my question to the Minister is this: until you have found the fine IT solution, couldn't it be an idea to make a manual assessment of these cases so that the individual doesn't feel hung up on his job because you're actually just doing your job?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131555-2	There's the two roads. There is the technical solution, and then there is also simply a simpler procedure, that is to say the presumption that if an emergency vehicle has been driven, it is enough to have a perfectly legitimate objective so that you do not have to go down any further. So there is a plethora of possible solutions. They're all being looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131615	Thank you very much both to the Minister of Justice and to Mr. Peter Skaarup for today's efforts. There is the questioner Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party, and the Minister is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel is ready to read the question now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131632	Thank you. The question is what the minister intends to do to ensure that the homeless in the City of Copenhagen receive the help they are entitled to and that the homeless do not fall out of the system because, for example, they have both a diagnosis and an abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131658	Thank you. The question put to me relates to the situation of the homeless in the City of Copenhagen and the people with concomitant abuse and mental illness, those normally referred to as the double-loaded. In this context, it is important for me to start by saying that, unfortunately, this is not an issue relating solely to Copenhagen. In fact, the recent homeless census showed us, unfortunately, an increase in the number of homeless people outside the largest cities. With this development we need a more differentiated approach to the homeless area, where we go to young people in homelessness in one way, the elderly in another, and where we also consider that the situation is different, whether we are talking about Copenhagen or a small provincial municipality. In relation to the double-loaded, I fully acknowledge that we are faced with a difficult and very unresolved problem. I spoke to a young man who lived at a Blue Cross shelter in Herning this summer and who had a drug abuse, but also had psychotic attacks. He couldn't get into psychiatry and get rid of him until he had been drug-free for 3 months, and it's hard when, through his mental and psychiatric illness, psychoses, you have self-medicated with a drug abuse, to stop from one day to the next. He had actually begun to do so, and he told us that he had already lasted a few weeks, though with some psychotic cases. Of course, it is not acceptable that we have a system which in this way pushes away the most vulnerable and leaves them alone. On the contrary, we need to succeed much better with this, and it is characteristic of socially vulnerable people in homelessness that they are struggling with more problems at once. So it is not the lack of a roof over your head alone. There are very often and increasingly abuses, mental problems, severe debts and other issues that arise. And, of course, it is no good for them to see that sectoral borders and administrative debts leave them in a no-man's-land. That is why it is one of the things the government is deeply concerned with, among other things. When we're gonna get our 10-year plan for psychiatry done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131908	Thank you. In the same article in House Past, to which I refer in my question, I hope the Minister has read it, says Søren Roman: "We have to do something about the housing situation. If you don't get through the needle eye to one of the few, cheap homes, you won't get a home for a rent you can pay. If the Minister agrees that the housing situation in Copenhagen is a problem and a challenge, is it also in other places? Does the Social Democratic Party intend to vote in favour of the Conservatives' motion for a resolution on better opportunities for temporary housing for socially disadvantaged people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204131953	Is it a motion for a resolution tabled on the territory of my colleague, the Minister for Housing, or is it a motion for a resolution tabled in my area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132002	It is a resolution that has been tabled, which can be said to extend both to housing and to social matters, and where we are several rapporteurs in the areas that are behind it. I can say a little more about what this is all about. The aim is to extend the possibility for the municipal council to grant derogations to temporary construction for the benefit of the socially disadvantaged, so that the temporary period can be up to 10 years and allow building with greater volume for the sake of the municipality's economy. So it is a resolution that is running to help the socially disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132045	I think I have to say to the rapporteur that if the rapporteur had known in advance that it was a specific resolution that the rapporteur would be discussing here, it would have been wise to refer to the resolution on the issue and not to an article in House Forbi which I have read but which does not deal with the Conservative motion for a resolution. This also means that I have not seen the specific resolution and I have not read it. That is why I do not have the opportunity to know whether this is a matter of legislation on the territory of one of my fellow ministers or my own. So it would have resulted in a better discussion. However, if you want to discuss how we ensure that Copenhagen does not become a city just for the rich and that we do not live more and more divided as a society, you must finally call on my good colleague, the Minister for Housing. For that is something that he works extremely hard on and that we, as a government at all, are rather more concerned with than the previous government, of which the Conservative rapporteur's party was a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132134	The questioner has another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132136	Now the previous government was very concerned about doing something for the homeless, which is why we also made an action plan and put money into the area. Part of what's also the challenge is this one with these low-cost homes. This is a challenge, especially when we are talking about the housing first strategy. After all, there is a lack of cheap housing in the larger cities, and it is unfavorable for the socially vulnerable. At the same time, it is also in the larger cities that we see the greatest concentration of socially vulnerable citizens. This means that socially vulnerable people have had to return 47 per cent. of the dwellings they have been assigned to, in the City of Copenhagen, because the municipality has designated for expensive dwellings. This shows the municipality of Copenhagen's own inventory, and the same statement shows that the average waiting time for a housing social instruction has increased. From 2010-2018, the waiting time for citizens with an ability to pay less than DKK 5,000 is below. In rent doubled. What is the Minister's position on the City of Copenhagen's handling of the housing situation for their socially vulnerable citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132248	At any rate, it should not be a rapporteur for one of the former governing parties who must stand and lecture the current government that it is essential that we have access to cheaper housing. We could have done much more for this because we had the power of government ourselves. This is one of the things that this government, led by my colleague, the Minister for Housing, has tackled in the first place. Most recently, with our financial agreement, we have done something in relation to parents' purchases, which is one of the ways in which prices are pushed up. On the whole, it is crucial for this government that there are cheap housing and that there is also the possibility for ordinary people to live in the big cities, such as the United Kingdom. Copenhagen. I would say that when we talk about homeless people, it is part of our common agreement President (Christian Juhl) gets up) So I think we have a slightly bigger debate to do, but I can understand that we will have that when the resolution is dealt with in this Chamber at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132348	Thank you both for that. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 4, which is also for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and the questioner is also Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132358	Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel now has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132400	Thank you. This is something a little different, and I am going to make a quote, and I regret that there may be some words that may be offensive: Will the Minister answer whether she agrees with her fellow party member Camilla Fabricius, who says in Altinget on 23 November 2019: "We need to talk about the fact that you are getting disc-prolapses of it. Because the blows are so violent up through your spine when you are caught both in the vagina and anal and in the mouth for many hours every day. You get hip slipped by being spread so much in your hips. When you are penetrated anal so often and apparently there are a lot of men who want to get you destroyed your bowels. And when you have intercourse with so many different people, the mucous membranes are technically destroyed. This means that they can no longer break down bacteria, and then you become susceptible to all kinds of diseases? Does the Minister agree with his party colleague Camilla Fabricius in that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132507	When you, as a politician, are in contact with vulnerable people in prostitution, you inevitably meet some very harsh stories, stories that it is not nice to think of coming from the same society that we all walk around in. I agree with my party colleague Mrs Camilla Fabricius that we need to talk about the harmful effects of prostitution, including those that are not good to hear about. Of course, it is not most women in prostitution who have suffered such severe harm from prostitution, but we know from, for example. KFUK's social work, that prostitutes are affected by violence and rape, and there are drug abuse, discrimination, deep debt, abdominal pain, physical genes such as back and back pain, knee injuries, general exploitation. In addition, all the psychological damage comes. I would recommend the questioner, for example. to go out to one of the shipowners in this country or Hanne Mariehjemten at Roskilde and hear the women's stories there or one of the other places across the country, where the women's stories contain details that you don't really want to relate to. At the same time, I would like to admit that the knowledge base on prostitution in Denmark is inadequate. It hasn't been updated since 2010, when a report from VIVE came in 2011. This means that we do not know enough about the forms or extent of prostitution, or about the physical and psychological damage that comes with prostitution that it is developing in Denmark today. That is why, of course, I also welcome the fact that a very broad circle of parties here in the Danish Parliament, including the rapporteur's own party, has supported the government's proposal for an exit package for people in prostitution, including, of course, that we should have updated the knowledge base on prostitution in Denmark and among other things. also gain more knowledge about the harmful effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132656	If this is so wrong, as the rapporteur and the Minister claim, how can it be that the Minister's solidarity does not extend to letting the working group that was set up finish its work? For then we could benefit from its results and its knowledge and thus help more women out of prostitution. Because it would be a positive result of the group's work that we could help more women out of prostitution. What is the Minister thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132735	Basically, I think, and the rapporteur knows that, because we have discussed this here on several occasions, it was wrong to set up a working group to look at the legalisation of prostitution as a profession, in other words to legalise it in all our sectoral legislation, so it became a real industry in our labour market on an equal footing with carpenters or schoolteachers. And my main reason for this is that I do not believe it can be equated with professions in the rest of our labour market, either when we talk about the damage or what would then be considered a working environment. And so it is very much because we can see that when you open up and normalise and legalise, there will be increased demand, and that will mean that more people will enter prostitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132813	As the Minister himself pointed out, the Minister has stated: "Prostitution must in no way be regarded as a profession in line with being a carpenter or primary school teacher entitled to sickness benefit and pension. On the other hand, it is a social problem that must be combated. ▪ How does the Minister think this is in line with the fact that one hand wants to collect tax dollars from people who sell sex while the other hand does not want to give them any rights? How does that match?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132848	I would just like to start by telling you that the rapporteur can be so pleased that I actually come directly from a round table meeting with a significant number of the players who sat in the previous working group, where we discussed exactly what is relevant here, namely: how do we ensure that people in prostitution in the real world have the same rights as all of us in the welfare society that we are funding from tax? Indeed, there are some very large gaps when it comes to our health care, the treatment of abuse and the social system, and I am deeply concerned that we are getting something done about this. So the premise that you are not concerned about safeguarding rights because you do not want to normalise prostitution as a profession, to have it as part of our regular regulated labour market is a completely false premise. On the contrary, going down that road is likely to mean that more people will go into prostitution, and I do not want that. I believe that our task is to ensure proper, dignified conditions, proper help and proper rights for the people who are in prostitution and to help those who want to be helped out. And I think it is a declaration of bankruptcy for us as a society that for many vulnerable women in particular, it is the only solution they have in a very difficult situation: to sell themselves to sex; we must do better as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132954	The questioner with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204132956	Camilla Fabricius also says in an interview that prostitutes get stomia from too much anal sex. Does the Minister agree with her party colleague here in her statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133013	As I said at the outset, when dealing with very socially vulnerable people and you go out and talk to people, you get part of what I would call anecdotal knowledge; that is one of the things we hope to be able to supplement with a proper study, which among other things. may further elucidate the harmful effects. And, of course, you have to get your facts right, so you take the discussions on a proper basis, but there are no stories taken out of thin air. The rapporteur himself has explained this, namely that the stories come from women with whom she has spoken, who have a history of prostitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133051	Thank you. And thank you to both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel for her work today. Let's move on to question 5. The questioner here is sir. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance, and the minister is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133110	In view of the recent criticism of banks' use of the research tax scheme, will the Minister state his position on the scheme itself, and does the Minister believe that the scheme contributes positively to wealth and tax revenue in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133125	In fact, the Minister would like to do so, and I would like to start by saying that the labour market we see today is a global labour market that is not limited by geographical distances nor by national borders, and that is why the government attaches importance to Danish research institutions and companies having good opportunities to attract highly qualified and also skilled employees not only in Denmark but also abroad. Here what is also referred to as research tax schemes, i.e. the gross tax scheme for researchers and key employees, is an important tool. The purpose of the scheme is precisely to help companies and research institutions attract highly qualified workers who would otherwise be difficult to attract to Denmark. These are to a large extent persons who, without the scheme, would not be taxed in Denmark, and therefore Denmark does not necessarily miss large tax revenues. During the past week we have been able to read that the scheme is being applied increasingly and that it is being used, among other things, by the Commission. is used by top managers in large companies. The scheme has been extended several times by successive governments over the last 10 years, and it is therefore of course also very natural that there are now considerably more who apply the scheme than ten years ago, and that in itself is no problem. It also goes without saying that the key employees who are taxed under the scheme are highly paid, and this is due to the fact that in 2019 the key employees will earn more than DKK 66.000. a month in order to apply the scheme at all. Having said that, I would, of course, like the scheme not to be used primarily by top managers, but I do not think that is the case either, so overall I believe that the scheme contributes to strengthening research institutions and companies' competitive conditions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133312	Let me start by signing for the answer, which was sensible, and I agreed with every word said. I would also have been shocked if the answer had been that the research tax scheme was a bad idea, or that it was bad, that it was used to the extent that it was used. But it is of course a little interesting in a broader social perspective that we have created a society in which we tax so much that we cannot attract necessary and qualified foreign labour without making special arrangements where they say that in order for you to have the desire to work in Denmark, you have to pay significantly less in tax than all the Danes who otherwise live and work in Denmark. The logical consequence of this must also be that the tax minister also believes that economic incentives also work on people born in Denmark. Would you not see similar positive gains in terms of so-called dynamic effects if you ensured that people in Denmark who have similar high incomes could get away with just as little tax? That must be the logical consequence, because it is not only people who are born outside Denmark's national borders who respond to good, healthy incentives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133429	It is, after all, a slightly different question which the questioner is now moving on to. I have been asked what my and thus the government's attitude is to the gross tax scheme, and it helps to give Danish companies better conditions of competition, and it offers excellent opportunities for Danish research institutions, which can also help support more growth and help support more growth for Danish companies. In a broader context, it is quite clear that the setting up of the tax system and the setting-up of conditions of competition for companies will help to strengthen competition, and this will help to strengthen the opportunities for attracting labour as well. There is high employment in Denmark, great competitiveness, so the reality is that the way we have organized our society today means that we are among the world's leaders, and it is supported by proper competitive conditions for our business community and very good opportunities to attract also well-qualified labour outside the country's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133525	This is excellent, but the Minister has just spent two minutes explaining that the fact that we have a particularly low tax rate for foreigners who have a high income and want to go to Denmark is a good thing. There are also a number of evaluations that show that they would not have come to Denmark to work if it were they should have paid an as high tax as the Danes should. The Minister has acknowledged this, and it is also difficult to deny the reality as it is, but the Minister must also acknowledge that if we did the same for the Danes, there would be similar positive measures. So why not do the same for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133603	Now the questioner is more or less revealing himself. It is not surprising that it comes from the Liberal Alliance's political and organisational leader, I understand now, with the many hats that belong to someone with the posts and congratulations on it. The point is simply that we have set up a model which is internationally a huge success: a small country with a very open economy and with competitive conditions for employees and companies. This means that we are the world's leading and world leader, if you like, in a whole range of areas. What the Liberal Alliance and the questioner must have of ideas that you have to remove both one and the other and the third and the fourth tax rates... top tax was what you drove on before the election... we can easily discuss. The obvious question is: where should the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133658	They have to be found among the 1 100 billion. kr., we spend every eternal year in public. There is enough to do, and you could just look at the 20 billion. kr. you spend on business support schemes. Then you could finance some tax relief instead. I do not really think I get the answer to my question anyway, and therefore I try again, although it is of course part of the game that you should ask questions and then not really get an answer: Does it apply to the positive gains that are for foreigners who come to Denmark, namely that they work more and that they settle in Denmark, also for Danes? If they were able to pay an equally low tax, would that mean that more Danes would not go abroad and stay in Denmark and work extra, or is it only foreigners who respond to economic incentives?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133739	I certainly do not think it is, and it shows quite a lot of calculations, of course. This is basically a political discussion about whether you want to go that way. The political and organizational leader of the Liberal Alliance reveals himself in that he is quite openly saying that he will, and that is quite fair, to which I ask: where should the money come from if you want to remove the top tax? Then what is being said is that you can save them in public. My question will then be: is it the 1,000 nurses that the government has just secured in the Finance Act that have to be removed? Is it the money for control in the tax administration that needs to be removed? Is it the business support schemes that help create conditions for growth in the outskirtsdanmark region that need to be removed? Is it the support for agriculture that helps to hold hands under the farmers that must be removed? Are the educators in our day care institutions the ones that need to be removed? I think we can have a discussion on that. I am very much in favour of that, but you have to report out fully if you want to get into this discussion, and I do not really think the questioner is doing that at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133835	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you to the honourable Member. Alex Vanopslagh. Isn't there another question?). No, I'm afraid there's no more. In total, there is a written question and three follow-up questions. We move on to question 6. The questioner is sir. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and the Minister is the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133900	Thank you. And the question is: does the Minister agree that the Prime Minister's statement that Denmark should continue to be an agricultural country is not linked to the government's making a new, hard attack on agriculture and extra burdens, for example? the compulsory advance of additional catch crops from 2021 to 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204133927	Thank you for the question. Yes, Denmark is an agricultural country, and Denmark must remain so. Agriculture provides us with food, not only by providing us with food on the table, but also by providing money for our common welfare. But having said that, Denmark must also be a country in which we protect our environment. And the need to make further efforts in relation to the environment became very clear last week, when a new report from Aarhus University showed that right now we have the worst oxygen loss in Denmark in 15 years. That is why we need to do more for the aquatic environment. We do not want to burden farmers for the sake of burdens. That is why I am also pleased that we can compensate farmers financially for the efforts they voluntarily make to the benefit of the aquatic environment. And that is why I am also pleased that we can improve the model of targeted regulation from 2020. So it is not a question of either being an agricultural country or a country that protects the environment. It's seen with social democratic eyes both-and. It is now, and it must remain so, and I know that the Prime Minister and I are in complete agreement on that. I also thought that I would agree with the former Minister for the Environment and Food, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, as you know, he cursed this spring on agriculture and said precisely in this area that agriculture would deliver even if it was not voluntary. In fact, that is what the current government is delivering.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134116	Thank you. After all, we fully agree that Denmark must still be an agricultural country, not only in words but also in action, and it is then strange that the government is going exactly the opposite way. It sounds good when the Prime Minister also says at the delegate meeting in Herning: Denmark must still be an agricultural country. It is understood, as it does, that we want to help and enable us to maintain and ensure that we still have food production, a great many jobs, including in rural areas, and huge currency revenues. That sounds good, but it's just weird when you see that the government is going the opposite way and changing the rules of the game in the middle of the game. We fully agree that we must take care of the environment, have clean water in the taps and so on, and there are plans for that too. There is also the possibility of achieving this with regard to what we have said in the past with regard to the catch crops. These are plans for 2020 and 2021. So why does the government go the exact opposite way to what they say? Because you do not give extra opportunities for Denmark to still be an agricultural country when you act in the way you do at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134228	Well, the government is going the way that the author's own chairman, the former Minister for the Environment and Food, himself indicated in the spring when he said: agriculture has not delivered on the necessary reduction of nitrogen compared to what has been agreed in the previous food and agricultural package. That is why agriculture must now deliver. It provided the then government so that it did not have time to do so. I do not know whether it was intended to do so either, but the current Socialist Government does, because it must keep its promises. And when farmers have promised that when they were given extra opportunity to fertilize, 20 per cent. extra opportunity to use manure, and at the same time should make sure to collect just as much nitrogen afterwards, but do not do so, then there comes an additional requirement. The former Minister for the Environment and Food asked for this, the author's current President, and the present government then delivers it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134330	I think that the former minister did exactly what can be expected of any good minister when there are some points to be pointed out. That is also what the former minister did when he said that there were some things that needed to be done more about. That's exactly what you started. When this is done, we have also been confirmed in the past, and the speed was set up to approve several mini-marital areas, etc., it is of course surprising that the current government is quite unmotivated to come and change the rules of the game in the middle of the game. We think that is wrong. That is also why, in this question-answer round, no answer has yet been given as to how this can be linked to the Prime Minister's saying that Denmark must still be an agricultural country. You kind of start driving backwards with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134416	This government delivers exactly what the author's own President said in the spring, namely that when we can see that agricultural nitrogen emissions do not fall as expected, and insofar as we have agreed, agriculture will have to do something, otherwise we will have to use other methods. That is what we are following up because we want to ensure a clean water environment in Denmark, by saying that there will be additional demands for initiatives to collect nitrogen by 2020. It is for the benefit of Denmark, it is for the benefit of agriculture, and it is also for the benefit of our aquatic environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134457	Now we have to try what is a little advanced in Question Time, namely that you can have a fellow questioner with you. This means that two additional questions can then be put to the Minister. That is why I would like to welcome Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson also from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134512	Thank you and thank the Minister for the answer. I am very pleased that the Minister confirms that Denmark must also be an agricultural country in the future. Unfortunately, I think that the Minister is somewhat neglecting the challenges that have been created for agriculture and the costs that this proposal places on agriculture. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether he agrees that there is no room for us to make agriculture's framework conditions worse in the future if we are still to be an agricultural country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134547	I want the best conditions for us to continue to have Denmark as an agricultural country. I believe that there should be a stable framework for the economic development of agriculture and opportunities to grow, but to grow sustainably. I think the questioner and I agree on that. At the same time, however, agriculture must also take part in the green transition, which is of great concern to everyone, not least to the Danish population. In other words, this is just what we are calling for, for example. more catch crops by 2020, ensures that agriculture does.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134624-2	So the Minister can confirm that he does not plan to reduce overall the framework conditions for Danish agriculture so that we can also be an agricultural country in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134635	The Minister can confirm that the Minister and the Government are concerned that there are good conditions and frameworks for farming in Denmark in the future, but that this must, of course, be done on a sustainable basis. We would very much like to work with agriculture to ensure that. I am counting on us to do so in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134657	Then we conclude by saying that the main questioner has the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134712	Thank you. Well, it is quite clear now that it is not connected, as I said in my main question. The Prime Minister says that we still have to be an agricultural country, and then you drive in exactly the opposite direction with these demands. The fact that we have to take good care of the environment is one thing we are in complete agreement on, but it is bad that one should say one thing, and that is clearly just words: Denmark must be an agricultural country, and then you drive in exactly the opposite direction. What is the Minister's answer to all the farmers who were about to invest, but who have to say: then we have to wait and see what happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134749	But what does not hold up is that the current President of the Left said in the spring, and I quote: 'It is not satisfactory that agriculture has not provided enough on a number of the agreed measures to provide a better water environment. ▪ Now the Left is criticizing the fact that the government is actually implementing the measures that will ensure a better water environment by 2020. It is, of course, the policy of the Left in the area which is not linked to the government that is entirely connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134819	Thank you. 7, and the questioner is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and this is for the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134833	Thank you. Will the Minister comment on the statements by the President of Agriculture & Food, Martin Merrild, that more farmers will not have room at all for so many catch crops in their fields at such short notice, without the consequences being extremely expensive and labour-intensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204134849	Thank you for that question too. Targeted regulation is cost-effective, first and foremost because we make different demands on farmers as needed, but not only therefore. First of all, we are making demands in some relatively large areas. This has the advantage that farms with space for example. more catch crops voluntarily and in return for financial compensation from the State can take on a larger share of the effort than they would otherwise have been. This means that other agricultural holdings do not have to produce so many catch crops. In addition, farmers have a palette of instruments to choose from. After all, they do not only have to produce catch crops. It may be intermediate crops, it may be early sowing of winter seed, and here we actually credit the efforts of farmers by sowing their fields early. Finally, farmers can be compensated for the efforts they voluntarily make under the targeted regulation. So targeted regulation is the best tool we have in the toolbox when we need to make a quick effort. Finally, I should like to mention that farmers can also choose just to reduce their consumption of manure next year. Now they have had a period where they have had to spend more, and then they can spend a little less next year. It's also an option. However, this regulatory model that we have chosen and the possibility of compensation will be able to keep farmers' costs down significantly here, and that is the best offer to deliver on what the author of the question, the former Minister for the Environment and Food, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, promised in the spring, namely that farmers would deliver either in one way or in another.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135055	It is clear that the President of Agriculture & Food and the Minister are very different in view of the flexibility and flexibility and effectiveness of this improvement in relation to the fight against nitrogen regulation. In this context, I would like to ask what dialogue the Minister has had with the profession on the practical issues of this particular solution before he put forward the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135123	In our ministry we have, of course, gathered a great many good skills, which are, of course, deep down in how agriculture and the individual farmer plan their production for the coming year, and we have also taken this into account, of course, in relation to the tool we have chosen here, with targeted regulation. The short and the long term is that here, in the most efficient and cost-effective way, we ensure that we get the result we need by 2020, and that is what counts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135201	I am sorry to say that, unfortunately, this is not the opinion of a great many farmers. You feel that this has come as a thief at night without the possibility of dialogue, without responsiveness, in terms of how you could do it here in a more flexible way, and there are a lot of people who are sorry about that. So I would like to call on the Minister to improve his dialogue with the industry in the future. I think that could help a lot of things. I shall conclude by asking the Minister whether he is satisfied with the way in which the dialogue has been conducted in this specific case of the profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135231	I would always like to make solutions for agriculture together with agriculture and in dialogue with agriculture. I would also just like to say that it has not been the case that agriculture did not know that this was happening. Well, it was already in the understanding paper when this government was formed, and it's been in the Finance Act. However, I would always like to increase and strengthen the dialogue with Danish agriculture on the things that need to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135257	I have to say in fairness that the questioner has the right to ask one more question, but not the duty to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135305	I've got the answers I came for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135310	Then we say thank you both to the Minister and to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. We move on to Question 8, which is also for the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality, and this time the questioner is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135324	Thank you, President. The question is: Will the Minister state whether the government recognises the efforts of agriculture to complete the agreed plans for post-harvest crops until 2021, and does the Minister agree that the government's agreement is like whistling the battle at half-time?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135343	Thank you for the question. First of all, I have to say that the food and agriculture package was, after all, a very narrow agreement, which was concluded in the blue block, and one of the reasons why the Social Democrats did not form part of that agreement was precisely that we were in the situation of giving environmental concessions to farmers before the measures that had to be put in place were managed. That then led to the situation we are in now. It is not therefore up to us to measure the environmental accounts that were included in the decision-making framework of the package. For yes, there are annual milestones in the environmental accounts of the food and agriculture package, which should ensure that nitrogen emissions were reduced, and here, simply, collective instruments have not been deployed sufficiently in relation to the conditions behind the agreement. We are not where we should have been at this time. In order to ensure the impact of the lack of collective instruments and to help reduce nitrogen emissions, we therefore decided, as has now been mentioned several times, to adjust up the efforts for 2020. So no, I don't recognize that we're whistling at halftime. We are making an extra effort to remedy the situation because it is necessary here and now, and that is also what the former Minister for the Environment and Food, the author of the question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is doing. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, when he almost cursed agriculture in the spring, acknowledged that farmers were going to deliver in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135523	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135525	To that I must say that I do not think, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I would also like to ask the Minister to make a few comments on that. So why is it that the government has chosen to triple the demand for catch crops and indeed, in my view, for the eleventh hour? It also affects the farmers out there. It can also be said that there is indeed a great evaluation on the way forward. What is the reason why it has been decided not to wait for that evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135609	The fact is that it is one third more in the effort that we are demanding from agriculture next year, compared with what we had to deliver in advance, according to the agriculture and food package. I just have to say that what should have happened here was that the previous government, including my predecessor, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, should have set this effort in motion in the spring, where he himself recognizes that it was needed. Then the farmers would have been told in good time. So there should have been some due diligence. You didn't. Now we are doing this to ensure that the aquatic environment improves in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135648	Perhaps I would also like to address one of the answers that the Minister gave to my good colleague Christoffer Aagaard Melson here a short time ago, when the Minister himself said that it is important that there should be a stable framework for agriculture. Does the Minister think that what the government is doing now is to create a stable framework for agriculture, when, with such a short period of time, they are required to produce so many more catch crops?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135716	Stable frameworks require both sides to act. What the previous government did was to reach an agreement with agriculture that, if you were allowed to use more manure, you would have to make efforts to ensure that exactly the same amount of nitrogen was collected. If we do not then deliver on the part of agriculture, then we will have to make efforts from the other side to ensure that the overall agreement is respected. This is what the current government has done to ensure that the previous government's agreement with agriculture is actually respected and implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135755	Then it is the questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135758	Both the Minister and I know that there are a great many farmers who are also on the way with new minive areas as a tool for precisely meeting the agreement. I have to say that I find it difficult to understand that farming will then be penalised at such short notice and that the evaluation will not be awaited either. But is it not correct to understand that there are actually a great many mini-marital areas on the way out there as one of the instruments to be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135828	I do not think that we are punishing agriculture. We are holding agriculture up on the pact, the agreement they had made themselves in connection with the conclusion of the agricultural and food package to ensure that when they were allowed to use more manure that emits nitrogen, which helps to pollute our aquatic environment, they would have to take measures that picked up the corresponding amount of nitrogen. This has not been done, and we will ensure that they can comply with the agreement by delivering, for example. I am counting on agriculture to make use of these measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135910	Thank you. The next question is for him too, and the questioner is Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135924	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the government's forced advance of extra post-harvest crops from 2021 to 2020 is not evenly distributed across the country, but hits exceptionally hard in some parts of the country and then with resulting major complications and economic consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204135943	It's nice to be begged, and sir... Erling Bonnesen and I are often seen here too, it is excellent and thank you for the question. Of course, if we are to impose burdens on farmers, we must only do so if necessary, and a further nitrogen effort by 2020 is necessary. But if we had not implemented it through the targeted regulation, we should have given all farmers the same increased demands, whether there was a need for it in the individual place or not, and that is crazy. A targeted regulation is our best tool in our toolbox to tackle the challenge we face, so that it is delivered where it needs to be delivered. But, of course, this should not affect farmers, which is why it is quite right from my place that we, as we do, should compensate farmers financially for the extra effort they are making. The University of Copenhagen has calculated the average costs the farmer will have by implementing this effort, and we have, as the previous government has done, set our rate of compensation accordingly. In other words, by paying compensation, we can make up for the differences and thus ensure that farmers are given the opportunity not to be severely affected. Again, I must remind you that, as you know, the former Minister for the Environment and Food was really unhappy with the farmers in the spring and promised that if they did not deliver in one way, they would deliver in the other way. I just have to say that what we have chosen here is the best way to ensure that the lack of impact of the collective instruments is taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140138	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140139	Thank you. I understand that the Minister feels a little uncomfortable about it, because what the government is doing here about the catch crops is bad as bad. It gets unevenly distributed in the sense that there are some parts of the country that, we must say, are being disproportionately hit extra hard, and when you are actually standing out there making your field plans, that is bad. However, something might suggest that you might come in situations where you have to plow up sown winter crop crops to meet the requirements that the government is coming with now. It's bad as it is when you get there, and when I say bad as it is, it's because the government doesn't deliver any answers to the fact that you've thought this through. We are now making demands which we are rolling out and which are of course neither a follow-up to previous agreements nor anything else. It is a signal policy that is being tried to beat with the big hammer, and it is now that the consequences are beginning to appear. So what is really the response of the Minister and the government to those farmers who are suffering exceptionally and perhaps in the situation of having to plow up some crops?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140247	What I am most concerned about is that the previous government and my predecessor, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, did not deliver on what he said himself in the spring when he blamed farmers for failing to deliver the reduction in nitrogen emissions that they have promised to do. There you should have acted, set these things in motion. Then there would have been plenty of time for farmers to be prepared for it. But they did not, and then we have to do it, and it comes a little late in the year. I recognise that, but I must say that there are other means of action that can be used other than catch crops. I have mentioned the fact that, among other things, we are dealing with a number of issues. may reduce the use of manure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140325	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140325-2	I can now understand that the government is completely unanswered to the farmers who are now in this extraordinary situation. The answer to those I heard from the Minister is just: Plow it up, because there are no other options. 'Cause there's not gonna be an answer. As far as the former minister is concerned, I believe he reacted entirely as a good minister should do. There were some challenges, so they said: get something done about it. And that's what they're doing. After all, they are rolling out more minive areas and more. So this is getting clearer and clearer: it's a bad case as in a bad case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140400	Now I'm afraid that sir... Erling Bonnesen has lost his hearing, because I have just said that farmers have different opportunities to deliver on this next year. After all, it is not just to establish catch crops or intermediate crops or early sowing. One can only reduce one's manure standard, i.e. apply less manure in the coming year, just as last year has been allowed to use much more manure than one used to do. So there are many opportunities for farmers to deliver on this without problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140430	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140431	Well, the answer is bad as it is, because it only gets worse every time the minister answers now. I have also asked about the economic consequences of this, and the Minister then says that one can simply stop using so much manure and reduce one's quotas; one can plow up the crops that one would actually like to have. Of course, it is clear that the crops that produce the most will be preferred. These farmers, who are now getting into a mess, can't have that. And that is not at all related to what we have said in the previous question, namely that the Prime Minister has been in charge and has himself said that Denmark must be an agricultural country. It doesn't add up at all now, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140504	Thank you. Then it is the Minister who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140505	Well, now I don't know how Mr. Erling Bonnesen has it with appointments. I feel that when an agreement is reached it must be respected by both parties, and in the previous agricultural and food package there was an agreement with farmers that they should reduce their nitrogen emissions or ensure measures that absorb as much nitrogen as are emitted. When you can see that it doesn't last, then the agreement doesn't last. Then we must ensure that the agreement is respected. That is what the government is doing with the action we have here. Yes, there is something to be done by agriculture, but they had to do so in advance. That's what was agreed. Once they have not delivered, we will now ensure that they will do so next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140539	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. The question is over. We'll continue with the minister, but now it's sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, who asks questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140547	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140550	Thank you. What measures does the government intend to take to improve the conditions of the agricultural industry so that Denmark can continue to be an agricultural country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140601	Thank you for the good question. There should be no doubt that the government, what I have also talked about in the past, generally works to ensure very good framework conditions for our agriculture, because agriculture contributes revenue, with jobs, and also to our well-being throughout the country, and agriculture makes a very large contribution to Denmark's exports. In order to ensure a good future economic framework, I have just set up an expert group on the economy of the agricultural industry, which has a particular focus on the debt situation of agriculture and on how to reduce the economic and financial challenges of agriculture in the future. The Committee will make its recommendations in the new year. Moreover, it is also crucial for the agricultural economy that environmental requirements can be met in as cost-effective a way as possible, and that administration and control are created that is as effective and as flexible as possible. We are constantly working on this, including developing new cost-effective instruments for agriculture in order to be able to deliver on, among other things. environmental action. Here, of course, I can mention the pilot experiment on precision farming, as well as our biomass project, which must give farmers much more flexibility. We are setting ambitious targets from the government for the green conversion of agriculture and we will live up to our commitments. But we are, of course, fully aware that Danish agriculture can be put at a disadvantage in competition with agriculture abroad, and this could mean that agriculture loses jobs abroad, and that the environmental and climate impact comes with it. So we want to strengthen green Danish diplomacy and increase Denmark's international commitment to, among other things. The EU to inspire and ensure that other countries set the same standards and meet the same international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140813	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140814	Thank you for your answer. It is very good to set up a group of experts and refer to pilot experiments, but can the Minister not give a few concrete examples, suggestions or ideas as to how the Minister sees that we can improve the framework conditions for our agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140831	As a minister, I am not an expert in the agricultural economy. I'm not sure the questioner is either. Of course, I won't be able to say that. So I take advantage of what we normally use at Christiansborg and in the ministries, namely that we bring together some of the people who have expertise in this area and ask them to make the good recommendations to us. After all, it is people who have a deep insight into the agricultural economy. I know that it is also recognised by agriculture that this work is under way. I am, of course, looking forward to concluding this so that we can have some recommendations that will ensure a better economy for agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140905	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140906	What signal does the Minister give to the industry that, after all, the Minister cannot come up with a single concrete proposal to improve the framework conditions for an industry which is increasingly being exposed to competition from all over the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140926	Well, I can make a lot of suggestions, but I am not an expert, which is why I have set up a group of experts to advise us exactly how we can best promote the economic framework of agriculture. I hope the questioner will respect that too. In any case, I can say that agriculture has taken this group of experts very well and, like me, they are waiting, I believe, for the group to make some very good recommendations that we can use forward-lookingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140951	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204140954	After all, the Minister has started his work by imposing a very large extra burden on agriculture, and I do not feel that the Minister fully recognizes how much trouble he has actually caused the industry. So, following on from that, when does he expect these many proposals on how to improve the industry's framework conditions to come and when can we expect to see something concrete from the minister that we can then vote through so that we can get this profession to help on top of the round they have just been through?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141024	I think it should be borne in mind again that the agricultural industry has been given some opportunities to spend 20%. extra manure in previous years, and this has resulted in significant economic earnings for the industry. So they've got some winnings. But they also had to deliver the fact that they limited nitrogen emissions and made sure to absorb as much nitrogen as they were emitted. You haven't delivered that. So once you have taken the gains, you must also make the investment, and that is what we are asking them to deliver at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141054	The question is over. Thank you to Christoffer Aagaard Melson. We will continue with the Minister, but now it is a question from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141103	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141105	Thank you. Does the Minister understand that Agriculture & Food wonder why the government chooses to regulate rather than approve more of the other instruments that can help reduce nitrogen emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141123	Thank you for the question. It is, of course, just before that we should have had a representative for Agriculture & Food present to ask all the good questions. Maybe so do we. In any case, I agree with Agriculture & Food that farmers must have as many instruments as possible to implement environmental requirements and comply with environmental requirements. And here it is just essential to understand that what we are using in relation to next year, that is, the targeted regulation, is a framework within which we set targets that farmers must achieve. To achieve these objectives, we are already giving them a number of different instruments. And one of the instruments, also new instruments, which is very much focused on, is so-called precision agriculture. And I will certainly do everything I can to ensure that precision farming comes in as a new instrument that farmers can use in the targeted regulation. Of course, this requires proof that it works, and that is where we have to wait for the results of the pilot project that we have launched. But I am not going to demand that all farmers, for example. shall use precision technology. It would simply be too expensive for those who do not have the equipment it requires. I believe, as I said at the outset, that farmers should have as many options as possible, and here too I am very much looking forward to Aarhus University coming up with a whole new catalogue of instruments in a short time. There they are looking at a number of new potential instruments such as: nitrification inhibitors and drainage removal as options. I hope that work will lead us to give farmers much more opportunities, because I agree with the questioner that we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141316	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141318	I have to say that I think there are many of us who have been able to read a lot of articles here in recent weeks, where the Minister has also been mentioned. Some of the things I'd like to ask you a little bit about, which I, among other things. could read about in the Jutland West Coast, is like the artistic impression in relation to the way this task has now been handled, so that suddenly, at such short notice, so many more catch crops are imposed. And we are actually doing this without taking into account the fact that a great many farmers have already made their field plans. How will the Minister perhaps also ensure that these farmers who are about to change this are somehow compensated?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141406	The artistic impression would have been quite perfect if the previous government and my predecessor had put this into effect, when he himself pointed out that it was a major problem that farmers had not delivered what they had to in terms of nitrogen emissions. Then it could have been planned and reported out in good time. We arrived as a government a few months ago and found that nothing has happened and that nothing has been delivered. Then we start what it takes, and yes, it's a little late. However, farmers have a number of options and instruments that they can already use in order to increase their efforts next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141441	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141442	But I do not really think I was given the answer to my question, so I am trying to repeat it. Well, the problem is that it comes at such short notice. A lot of farmers have already made their field plans, and now many of these farmers have to change it because they have been required to plant these extra after-crops. These farmers have spent time and money making these field plans, so are they going to get some compensation when they're about to change it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141511	Farmers, and I think that this should be welcomed as farmers, receive the compensation that lies within the framework of targeted regulation. After all, 190 million have been set aside. kr. Next year to compensate farmers for the extra effort they are going to make. That is a lot of money that society spends on securing compensation for farmers. So, yes, compensation will be granted if the targeted regulation is implemented, and I think that is welcome for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141545	Anni Matthiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141546	After all, there are many of us, at least myself, who also live close to farmers, and we know that a great many of these farmers have also had a really difficult economic situation. For that matter, many have also gone bankrupt. I understand if there are some of these farmers who are now about to change their field plans, who are being frustrated and say that this must simply be enough. And then my question again is: you have spent time and money and are probably going to spend double up, so is there any kind of help for those farmers?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141618	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141619	Well, I have to say that there are other means that farmers can make use of than to set up an after-crop and redesign their field plans in this way. It is, of course, that you can reduce your fertiliser standard, that is, use less manure next year, because you have been allowed to use 20%. more in the years ahead. You can do that as an alternative if you do not want to change your field plans completely in the form of making catch crops.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141650	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The question is over. As the next question by Mr. Jacob Jensen has resigned at the request of the author, we thank the Minister. That means that we go further, but now it is the Minister of Transport and there is a question from Mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141705	Sir. Mads Birded for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141708	Thank you, and thank the Secretary of Transport for being here today. I would like to ask what the Minister's position is on the fact that there is no intention to set up noise-reducing protection systems along the Elsinore motorway, given the many genes that may be brought about by ordinary wooden or steel car defence systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141731	I should like to begin by thanking you for the question. I would point out that the purpose of Article 20 is, of course, that Members may be informed of a minister's position or perception of a public matter, and the question put is quite simple in this respect. However, it does contain some technical aspects, some of which may at least be slightly outside the scope of what is intended with the §20 format. I would like to begin by expressing my opinion. It is quite clear in terms of noise control in the broad sense. Road noise is a major social problem, it affects many people along the state road network, and I am very concerned about finding solutions that can reduce noise along state roads. We should use all relevant tools to ensure as effective and cost-effective a noise reduction as possible. It is also the case that, in the new year, we are going to set up an infrastructure investment plan and, of course, we are going to look at noise pools as well. In relation to the specific question of the specific noise reduction measures along the Elsinore motorway, one can briefly say that there are a number of tools available. They include, inter alia: noise shields, asphalt laying, better noise reducing properties of ordinary asphalt and noise insulation of windows and facades, and noise absorbing barriers are also one of the available technical solutions. In this specific context, however, the Vejdirektoratet considers that it is not a means that will have any noticeable effect along the Elsinore motorway, and that is where we have to look into it a little more technical. Therefore, I would also like to say to the questioner now that if the questioner has a need to find out about this a little bit closer, it may well be that such a paragraph 20 question here does not quite give enough time for it • I would like to invite over for a cup of coffee, and then we can go through it more technically there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141926	Mads Birded, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204141927	I very much welcome the invitation to a cup of coffee. Noise is a huge problem and I have not adopted any technical solution to deal with it. That is what is said in American politics: I will throw the kitchen sink at the problem and what will solve it will have to solve it. However, I am pleased that the Minister agrees that there is a problem. Can the Minister tell me whether, in this connection, the Road Directorate has had it in mind to look at precisely the protection of motor vehicles as part of what could be used as a noise reduction? Because what I have been able to find myself is that you haven't had the car guards inside as something you have assessed when it comes to getting low noise on this particular stretch.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142019	Of course, we'll find the time to invite over. I'll make sure my front office gets that taken care of. There are also a number of committee questions that have been put to this and, of course, in this context we will also elaborate on the more technical assessment by the Road Directorate. In short, however, it can be said that it has to do with the fact that road protection has a relatively low height, namely 90 cm, and therefore the Vejdirektoratet's assessment is technically that the effect will be low if the surrounding terrain is higher than the road and the guard, as the noise will easily pass the relatively low road guard. So if it works, it also depends a little on, you might say, the physical conditions at the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142102	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142103	You can look at noise as a problem that we agree we have to solve, and there are a number of reports that suggest that it will be worthwhile in socio-economic terms if you invest in a reduction in it. Will the Minister work to ensure that it is targeted, in particular, in residential areas adjacent to the major state roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142132-2	Noise along the national road network is a problem in many parts of the country. That is why I think it is quite natural that we should also include that element in drawing up a long-term investment plan, which, of course, I hope will be shared by a large majority of the parties, and I know that the party of the questioner in his transport rapporteur, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, has also indicated that you want to include noise in the work. So I see it as quite natural that we look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142203	Sir. Mads Birded, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142204	It is a very harmonious question and answer back and forth. I am very pleased about that. I look forward to being invited over for coffee, because I have to conclude that we have a common agenda here to address the major noise nuisances from the major approaches to Copenhagen, which go through the surrounding area of Copenhagen in both the north, the south and the middle part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142229-2	I can only agree with that and we will find a way to arrange a cup of coffee if it should be black or if it should be milked, the outstanding question. Mads Birded It becomes with milk).
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142240	In peace and happiness the question has ended. We will continue with the Minister of Transport, but now the question is from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142248	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe, for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142251	Thank you. Will the Minister take the initiative that the renovation of the Eastern Railway be included in the negotiations on future state investment in infrastructure, cf. the financial agreement between Danske Regions and the government for 2020, which states that the government is planning to discuss future state investment in infrastructure by 2020 and that the government has noted the state of the private railways in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142314	Thank you for the question, Mrs Zenia Stampe. First of all, what is going to be included in a future investment plan depends, of course, both on what the government itself brings to the negotiating table, but also on what each party brings to the negotiating table. I think that is essential. My starting point is not to allocate separate funds to the East Railway in the forthcoming negotiations on state infrastructure and investment. However, I can already say that I have had a very constructive dialogue with the regional council of the Region of Zealand, and I note that the Regional Council has agreed to allocate funds to create a so-called programme phase, in other words to clarify how much money is left behind in terms of maintenance and, if necessary, what challenges there are on the Eastern railway. And that is, of course, in order to be able to play it against what kind of financial framework the region has. In this context, I would like to say that the agreement between the regions and the State is not, after all, the economic framework for this part of the railway, but is under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance in relation to the agreements made there around block grants. It is also clear that, of course, we in the government are also concerned, for example, with looking at how the regions can make the best use of their framework. Some of that, for example. is ensured that the regions are guaranteed free access to loans to finance long-term investments in the lanes. This also applies, of course, to the East Railway and Region Sjælland. However, in my opinion, it is quite important that we look at what the specific challenge is, and I think, as I said, that I am in a rather constructive dialogue with the Regional Council President of the Region of Zealand, and we are certainly very happy to assist with the concrete investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142521	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142522	Thank you for the answer, which was still a little extravagant, but I still think it is better than the answer given to my Conservative colleague a few weeks ago when she also asked about the Eastern Railway. For there I understood the Minister that it was neither a government task nor a task that belonged to his authority. I am very pleased that there is now a constructive dialogue. When I asked the question, as I did, it is because it is a rather cryptic formulation that lies in the economic agreement between the government and the regions. That is why I would like to get the government a little more on the ground in order to get a clearer answer as to whether the local railways are a task in which the government believes that assistance from the state is needed in order to solve the challenges that exist now and whether it is a task that will be undertaken in future infrastructure negotiations. I heard the Minister touch on it so much. But can you get closer? Is this a task in which the government believes that the state should play a role in helping the regions, and is this a task that will be taken into account in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142630	How exactly to interpret the agreement between the government, the state and the regions is not, in fact, part of my resort. This concerns the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior. I should therefore like to refer to the ministers concerned for an interpretation of the specific text of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142656	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142657	In other words, the Minister for Transport, which is part of the government and is a social democrat, cannot say whether it is the attitude of the government and the attitude of the Social Democrats that the state must go in and help the regions to solve the problems currently facing them in relation to the local railways. Should I understand that we cannot actually get an answer to that question from the Social Democrats and the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142724	It is the case that the questioner has asked a question about something on my mind, namely a future infrastructure investment plan. I started by replying to this, on the one hand, to what the government intends to bring in and, on the other hand, to stress that it is also a question of what the individual parties will be included in such an agreement. I can answer that because it's my resort. If it is a question of matters which fall within the scope of the agreement between the regions and the state, I must refer to the ministers of the public who agree on this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142755	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142756	I thought the government was a kind of college, so when I ask a question to the Minister for Transport, he can also answer on behalf of the government, and especially when it is a question of transport. We shall now come to another question about the Eastern railway, which is hitting even more directly into the transport minister's resort, namely the so-called investment grant. But do I really understand that the Minister of Transport cannot explain the attitude of the government and the Social Democrats on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142827	I take it, then, that Mrs Zenia Stampe has been so long in politics that we are familiar with the division of powers between ministries. It is clear that if Mrs Zenia Stampe had wished specifically to clarify this, Mrs Zenia Stampe would probably have asked explicitly about it in the question, and had that question been put to my ministry, we would have passed it on to another ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142850	The question is over. We will continue with both the Minister of Transport and Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142855	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142858	What is the Minister's view that the region's investment grants to local railways have been determined on the basis of the Railway Inspectorate's and Traffic Management's assessment of the investment needs in the individual lanes during the period 2000 to 2009 and thus do not cover the cost of a refurbishing of the East Railway, which is estimated to cost approx. 30 million kr. annual in the case of loan financing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204142919	I do not really believe that the questioner takes the right line when the questioner takes the view that the investment grant does not cover the renovations of the eastern railway in this particular case. It is true that, as the questioner also says, the investment subsidy for local railways has been determined on the basis of an assessment from the year 2000, but on the one hand the amount has been continued and, of course, the amount has been calculated on the basis of prices and wages, and on the other hand it has been supplemented by a block grant in the field of development, from which most of the funding for private railways comes. That part of it, I must stress again, is not below my resort. According to my information, the investments of the regions in the private lanes are below the investment grant they receive. So if you look at the investment grant in isolation, it looks as if there is more than enough. The distribution of investment grants between regions is based, as I have said, on an earlier assessment of the individual runway, but I have not heard the regions present an overall concrete desire to distribute this investment grant differently between the regions. Region Sjælland receives about 35 million each year. kr. in investment grants, and up to and including the year 2018, the region has further received nearly 200 million. kr. in block grants to the development area allocated solely on the basis of the private runway criterion. According to my information, overall, the region has had lower costs for the private railways than these figures overall. Against this background, I believe, as I said, that the questioner takes the wrong premise when it is stated that it has not been possible to prioritise the necessary investment in the private railways. The block grant in the field of development will fall from 2019 at just under 20%. as a result of the former government's business promotion reform, but in this context the region also has fewer tasks. However, as I said on the previous question, I am in a good dialogue with the Regional Council President of the Region of Zealand about the challenge that is currently under way. But if you look at it historically, the money has actually been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143124	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143125	Yes, if we look at it historically, they have been present, but then I would like to read out a report that belongs to the Transport Minister's Resort. It is good enough old, it is from 2000 when it says: "It must therefore be assessed that in the years after 2010 the private railways will face a larger reinvestment gap and that therefore the (very) long-term average reinvestment costs in the infrastructure significantly exceed the average costs in the next 5-10 years'. I know that this is a long and complex sentence, but what is said in this way is that the investment needs that have been calculated for the years 2000 to 2009 have mainly been for equipment, whereas the investment needs that may arise later for track renovation far exceed the investment needs that are in stock, and this is therefore a report prepared by the Transport Minister's own Ministry many years ago. That is why I would just like to hear the opinion that this investment grant has not been regulated, despite the fact that it has been calculated on the basis of a period which has long since been obsolete and where we are in a completely new investment situation, which means that not only new equipment is needed, but there is in fact a need for a thorough re-routing of the track.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143241	What I can see, and what I have already answered, is that price and wage developments have been regulated, but we can also see that, historically, back to the time mentioned by Mrs Zenia Stampe in connection with the previous report, there has been less use than the region received in subsidies in this area, and we can now see that we are facing various challenges. But, of course, it would have been more optimal if the funds given to this task had been used for the task. Then you would hardly have faced the same challenges as you are now. But now we are where we are, and that is why, of course, we also need to analyse the area further and see how we proceed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143328	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143329	I believe that what is the case is that some money has been set aside primarily for the purchase of equipment, and perhaps a little less has been spent than had been allocated. But now you are faced with a completely different type of task, because it is clearly more expensive to renovate the tracks on a whole stretch than to go out and buy some new equipment, and these numbers are not up to date at all. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the government will take the initiative to look at this investment grant and update the grant in relation to a new, updated, revised assessment of the real investment need on these tracks, where it is not least the track renovation that is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143406	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143407	If you look historically at what has happened in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, for example, you can see that the total grant granted in 2016 is 229.9 million. kr., and that what the regions have used for the private railways is 182.6 million. kr. That is to say, there is a lower consumption compared with what has been granted in grants of 47.3 million. kr., in 2017 it is 43.3 million. DKK, and in 2018 it is 37 million. kr. that you've spent less than what you've got.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143448	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143449	Well, I know it's gonna cost about 30 million. kr. a year to make this track renovation, and Region Sjælland gets about 35-36 million. kr. a year in this investment grant. That means that it will largely empty the box for this track renovation, and that is why I think everything is in favour of these figures being obsolete, and that is why my last question is this: will the Minister take the initiative to see whether the assessment of investment needs is still fair or whether there is a need for an adjustment?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143524	If it is the case that it has historically been seen that the regions have received more money than they have spent in this area, i.e. between 37 million. and 47 million. kr. more a year than they have actually used, you can always discuss what the reason has been for them not to use them. After all, there is regional autonomy. What I am concerned about, together with Region Sjælland, is analyzing me on how to solve that challenge. But there is certainly no point in using less money historically than has been given to the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143600	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. We'll continue with the Minister of Transport, but now it's sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143607	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143609	Thank you very much. If the Minister can confirm and justify that on 27 September 2018 the Danish Shipowners' Board provided guidance on § 3 paragraph 3 of the Taxi Act. No. 2, No. 2 and 5 paragraphs No. 2, No. 2 as the Department of Transport and Housing in a later note of 2 July 2019 changed to a more strict interpretation of wording, and how will the Minister ensure that a quick solution is found so that the Danish taxi market does not go around in uncertainty as to whether they were bought or sold?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143641	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143642	Thank you for the question. The Taxi Code lays down a number of requirements for obtaining an authorisation for commercial passenger transport and for operating a driving office. In the taxi law, these requirements are very precise and one of the requirements is worded as follows, and I would like to quote this: "has an ownership group resident in the EU or the EEA'. In other words, it is very specifically stated in the law what the requirements are like. As the press has shown, the very clear provisions contained in the law on residence requirements in an EU or EEA country are challenged in the specific supervisory case currently under review. is pending within the Danish Trade Authority. I cannot comment on a specific case, but, of course, when a lawyer claims that a provision is incompatible with EU law, the issue should be examined in more detail. We have therefore asked the Attorney General for help in clarifying the EU legal aspects of this matter. As you know, I was not a minister when the taxi law was passed, but my officials informed me that the provision came into the law because there was a strong desire in the contract circle to prevent taxi companies from becoming owned by capital funds located outside the EU or the EEA. And this wish was reflected in the provision that ownership should therefore be based in an EU or EEA country. What was written into the law was a protection which the Ministry believed could give rise to the political desire.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143824	Thank you very much for that answer. Prior to Triton's purchase of Dantaxi, the Danish management had indicated that the Swedish-German fund could buy the Danish taxi company. The requirement was then that a substantial part of the ownership company should be resident within the EU. That requirement met Triton, but in August of this year the Danish Trade Administration changed its mind, and now no owners were allowed to live outside the EU, and because some of Triton's investors are outside the EU, the fund is suddenly no longer legal owner of Dantaxi. This may mean that Triton has to find another buyer very quickly, because otherwise Dantaxi may lose the right to drive up to 1,000 taxis in Copenhagen, leaving the capital in a very great lack of taxis. Several professors believe that the decision of the Danish Trade Administration is inconsistent with several EU rules, and Triton is also very surprised by the decision. For me, the worst kind of thing, besides the 1,000 taxis in Copenhagen, is that there are really, really big problems with this, because Dantaxi is the only company and we leave provincial towns in big trouble. And this leads to the question of principle as to why capital funds and public limited companies are not allowed to own Danish taxi companies; moreover, as far as I am informed, the taxi industry is the only industry where this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204143946	As I said, I was not involved in negotiating the taxi law at the time, but at that time it was written in very explicitly at the request of the political parties. It is also clear that if the political parties want something else, they can always do so. I do not want to go into the specific case and deal with it, but one can at least say that if you read the law, it is very clear, and therefore the issue is more of a definition of EU law. And I think it's very clever that we get a closer look at the DA's office.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144022	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144023	I would like to thank you very much and look forward to hearing the Attorney General's statement on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144030	I therefore consider the question to be closed. Although we ended a little early, we are ready with the next question, which remains for the Minister of Transport. Now it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144044	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144047	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Transport: will the Minister explain why the Minister wishes to initiate secretly preliminary investigations into a level-free merge at Ringsted?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144057	Thank you for the question. Yes, it is not that secret, because the terms of reference for this calculation have been sent over to the Transport Committee. An improved solution is, in fact, central to rail traffic at all, and this applies partly to ensuring that there is sufficient capacity for train traffic via the Fehmarn connection when it is expected to open in 2028 and partly to get the full benefit from the new runway between Copenhagen and Ringsted and, last but not least, to create more resilience in rail traffic on Zealand. The study initiated must provide the best possible basis for a solution at Ringsted and, as the terms of reference also state, we must think beyond the solutions that have so far been known and which have given rise to a great deal of debate. In other words, you have to try to think out of the box popularly. And it is also the case that, when the basis for the decision is available, I look forward, of course, to discussing it with all the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144210	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144212	I am pleased that the Minister has sent it to the Danish Parliament at this time, but if the Minister says that there will be a study of some options that have not already been studied, can the Minister comment on what the Minister is thinking of this at the moment? So far we have been looking at both an Eastern and a Western solution, and it is a little difficult to imagine going north or south, so what alternative solutions is the Minister thinking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144235	At any rate, I can say that whatever it is, it is certainly not any of the solutions that have been put into action in some form or other that will become part of it. And now, as I said, a project has been set in motion and you will look into it. All the concerns that have been raised locally are well known, and they will of course also be thought into it, quite clearly. And then we return to the conciliation circle or to the transport rapporteurs when the study is finished and present the conclusions that are then.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144314	I'm glad. But if I am to understand the fact that the Minister does not want to put it in a scenic area and in a public school and on a villa road as originally planned, can I take it for granted that the Minister refuses in advance to put it as with the Western solution that was first proposed, where it was practically added to the school just after the station, if you come from Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144344	Well, as I said, I intend that we should think the most out of the box in relation to it. Of course, there is a certain pressure of time to solve it, that is to say, towards 2028, because if we are to start building plants and other things, we need a certain planning phase. On the other hand, it must also be said that it also gives us the time to think wisely enough to get around and clarify everything so that there is a basis for decision on which the Folketing can also decide widely.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144419	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144420	I am glad that the Minister is having a thorough look at things. But as elected in the area, I know how much this merge means in Ringsted, where you're extremely worried about where it's going to lie. That is why I just wanted to give the Minister the opportunity to give the citizens of Ringsted security by telling them that the solution that was on the table last time is out of the question, just west of the station this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144446-2	As the terms of reference also state very explicitly, you will of course revisit the sketches of projects that have been made so far, but you also say clearly and clearly that you have to update the knowledge base for it. This also means, of course, that all the known concerns, which have been clearly expressed in the public debate too, are reflected in this. In other words, we are literally thinking as much out of the box as we can, and only then will we take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144520	The question is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144527	Here you go to read the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144529	It's kind of the same way, you might say. Will the Minister explain whether the Minister, on the basis of the secret note on a mission to investigate the level-free merge at Ringsted, can explain whether the Minister's plan is that trains should not stop at Ringsted?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144543	As I have already mentioned, the note has been sent over. I do not have the exact annex number that it has in the Committee on Transport, but fortunately we can look up that. So I also have no secret plan for how the train service in Ringsted should be when and if it is decided to upgrade the infrastructure at Ringsted. The right order must be that we first examine what the options here are in terms of future security of the infrastructure. But just to make the questioner safe, trains must continue to stop in Ringsted. What kind of train it should be, you'll have to look at when the infrastructure is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144627	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144628	The reason why I am asking the question is precisely because it says in the note that as part of the merge it must be ensured that a speed upgrade can be carried out through the station, which will reduce travel time. It sounds like it's all about the trains sucking through the station, but it doesn't stop there. That's exactly what I'm worried about. Now Ringsted Station is actually a traffic hub on Zealand, because it is here, the South railway and the track to Jutland and Funen cross and meet. So it's a natural place to change if you're going in a different direction if you're coming from the west and going south or vice versa. That's why it's quite relevant to know if this speed upgrade is about the train going through Ringsted Station but not stopping there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144710	But already today it is the case that there are trains driving through Ringsted, and trains stopping in Ringsted. The whole point here is that in the future there must also stop trains in Ringsted. However, it is not the case that we are in a detailed planning now with a roadmap for DSB's remote train after 2028, where the Fehmarnlink opens. It is very much in order to ensure the future, not least in relation to Fehmarn, that we have to think about this. As I said, trains will also stop in the future in Ringsted. Of course that will, because, as the questioner himself rightly says, it is a natural focal point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144751	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144752	Another reason why I am asking is that it says in the note that it should help in relation to a possible later establishment of an hour model, and the hour model was that it should take 1 hour between the big cities, but that the trains should not stop along the way, which means that the only region where there would not be a stop would be Region Zealand. That is why I think it is a pity if what you do the upgrade is to establish an hour model where the trains just don't stop in a whole part of the country. That is why I would like the Minister to state that we are aware that the trains must of course stop along the way so that people can get on the trains and that they do not just race through. That is why I would like to repeat the question: can the Minister see the logic of the train stopping in Ringsted so that passengers can also be put on from Zealand off?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144837	Already today, as I said, there are trains that stop and trains that do not stop in Ringsted. This will also be the case in the future. It is not the case that I have a plan that, because you then make an improvement in Ringsted, if we decide to do so, because now we have to analyze it first, means that there are fewer trains that have to stop in Ringsted. That's not the reason for doing this analysis. It is a question of being able to secure the railroad for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144904	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144905	I'm glad to hear it. I hope that means that if there is an hour model, they must of course also stop in Ringsted. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144915-2	I am not currently setting up a road map covering Denmark after 2028. I am smart enough to know that it is actually the case that we have decided in the Folketing that we leave it to DSB to do so. But today it is the case that there are trains that stop in Ringsted. There will be in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144935	The question is closed. Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm and thank you to the Minister for Transport. The next question is to the Minister for Business by Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144944	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl for reading questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204144950	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's participation in the Question Time. When a 53-year-old man from Silkeborg was taken by the police in a booth check at Remistrup Å, that's part of the Gudenåen at Silkeborg with a thousand over 2.0 in his 8-metre boat and the Court in Viborg nevertheless decided that he hadn't broken the law, does the minister think that the law in this area is clear enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145018	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145019	First of all, thank you for the question. To begin with, I would like to point out that, of course, I cannot comment on the specific case from Silkeborg, as Mr. Christian Juhl refers to, but I can say something more general about what applies to recreational services of the kind that I believe we are talking about here too, namely that the driver of a vessel must, of course, be able to carry it safely. If you don't, you can be punished. The rules are currently such that for vessels requiring training for the master of the ship or, where applicable, the master of the ship, a fixed limit of 0,5 per thousand is laid down. This applies to vessels of more than 15 metres in length and to speedboats, water scooters and similar vessels. On the other hand, when it comes to recreational craft less than 15 metres, for which there are no training requirements, there is no real limit on the number of persons involved. This does not alter the fact that the master of the boat or ship can be penalised if he or she is affected by spirit drinks or other substances to such an extent that the person concerned is unable to perform his or her duties safely, regardless of the amount of alcohol that the sailor otherwise has. It was a unanimous Parliament which adopted these rules at the time. Having said all that, I can understand if there is cause for concern that you can sail a leisure boat with a thousand more than 2 without having any consequences. I would therefore like to refer to the question raised by Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl has travelled today and, as I think is very relevant, ask my official to have a discussion with the area's stakeholders and other relevant authorities, including among others. the police, as I have also seen in the specific case of the scale of the problem and any maritime safety problems that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145221	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145222	Thank you. I am very happy about that, because I know there are many who travel on the lakes, but of course also on the sea and in the fjords and ports of the open area; there are very many very small boats that may be in danger if a relatively large ship comes with a drunken skipper on board. And I also think it is quite provocative to know that one can first be punished or that some intervene if it is that it goes wrong. Our law is among other things. I am very pleased that the Minister will look into this matter. When we look at it, I would say that we had some experience when we had the ugly accident out here in the harbour of Copenhagen with some water scooters where there were deaths. And there we made a tightening up on some of the areas of water scooters and speedboats in relation to their having to be insured. Will the Minister at the same time look at whether this requirement should not also apply to leisure sailors? I think it's a little bit • what to say insecure to know that there might actually not be any insurance at all if things go wrong with these leisure sailors.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145340	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145341	Thank you. In fact, I think it is appropriate to take seriously the problem that is being raised today on the preliminary question. And that is why I think the right thing to do now is to ask the Department of Business to have the necessary dialogue with the stakeholders in this area and with other relevant authorities. In fact, here we are reminiscent of how to ensure the safety of each other when we walk on the water, and there is a question that can be raised, about smaller vessels, about alcohol, about water scooters, etc. And I assume that, of course, we are looking at the question in a broad way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145425	Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145426	Thank you. It is also a very good additional thing, because I feel that a limit should apply to everyone, even when you go to sea. We know exactly what can happen in traffic, and there we don't put our fingers in, no matter what it is for a vehicle you drive even on these little scooters, you have to be sober when you drive with them. That is why I am very pleased that you will take it all with you, and so I would ask you to take a look at whether we could at the same time tighten up the training requirements for the area. I know that the Minister has some excellent lawyers, and that is why it would be very good if we looked at it at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145507	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145508	Well, I guess when we get this through, there'll be an assessment of the extent of the problem. I think that is actually quite important in this matter, i.e. to find out exactly how much the problem of maritime safety is in this case, and I think it is relevant to look at various elements, including those, Mr President. Christian Juhl has highlighted today. What it all results in and when it can be finished, I am not in a position to say today, but I think that we will have a good discussion when that day comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145542	Then the final question from Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145546	Thank you. I am very happy about that, and I am also very happy that you will have looked at all the vessels on the lakes, on the creeks and at sea. I think there are a lot of people drowning, or a lot of people are at risk from canoes and rowing boats too, and that means that it is also expensive for society when a helicopter is going out and making a rescue action because people have been too drunk. Thank you for that and thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145610	I consider the matter to be closed. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. Now we are going to address a number of questions to the Minister for Housing, and it is the case that the maximum is actually exceeded. We have to be here for one hour, but we have figured out that if everyone keeps to the time, we can not exceed by more than a few minutes. So I hope that we will do so and that it is also acceptable for the 2-3 minutes that may be involved. Let's go. The first question is for the Minister of Housing, and the first one asks is Niels Flemming Hansen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145643	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145649	Thank you very much. I will do what I can to make it quick and relatively painless: How will the Minister ensure that running a market that the JydskeWest Coast describes in its article of 17 November 2019 • Arrangements can be hit by large extra bills?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145704	The debate over the last few weeks has shown that several associations and their volunteers have been nervous about whether their local market, city party or festival might turn the key because the municipal construction engineering process will end from 2020. There has been particular criticism that for some years it will be expensive to get their event approved by fire, and several associations have been concerned that their profits will have to be spent on certified consultants when they can no longer get their space distribution plan approved by the municipalities. Denmark is a country of association where thousands of volunteers make a huge effort, for many without getting a penny for it. We have to protect that. Therefore, after discussion with the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority, I have decided that it should continue to be possible for city parties, markets, festivals and similar events to receive technical construction treatment at the municipality. It will therefore be neither more expensive nor more difficult to have city parties than it is today, because the rules for these events continue as they are today. On the contrary, it will actually be easier. A number of guidelines have been prepared specifically for these events.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145807	Thank you very much. I am glad that the Minister has taken this problem seriously, as it is, since a great many of these associations are also giving their money to charity. The press release sent out by the Minister on the question, for which I am personally very grateful, describes that it will be possible to obtain a certified adviser's certificate if the organisers concerned so wish. I just have one question: will it then be against the organiser's own payment, or is it also a state-funded good?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145842	None of them are state-funded in the sense that the municipalities themselves choose today whether to finance it through their ordinary tax collection, that is to say the budget at all, or whether to charge a fee covering the cost that is; 24 municipalities pay, you might say, over the tax ticket for it, so nowhere will it be free. There may be events such as: Green Concert, which has events in several municipalities, and there it will therefore be an advantage for them to use a private consultant because they only have to obtain one approval instead of an approval from each municipality. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Conservative People's Party and your rapporteur, Mrs Mona Juul, for raising this matter with me as well and to ensure that something happened in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145921	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145922	We also thank the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145926	I also fully agree with what the rapporteur has written on the west coast of Jutland, and it is only good that there are more good forces to address this issue so that we can get it done in a good way for the volunteers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145940	Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is also to the Minister for Housing, and the questioner is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145948	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204145951	Thank you for that, and the question is this: does the Minister think that it is fair when, in connection with an interview in P1 Morgen, the Minister uses Section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act? 2, to explain an example of a rent increase to DKK 36,000. a month, when the opportunity used by the Minister as an example does not fall under § 5 (1). 2, but instead is covered by Section 29c of the Housing Regulation Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150015	The Minister of Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150016	Raising the rent under the lease is one of several methods used to try to force tenants out of leases. These methods are often used by aggressive landlords who want to make a thorough improvement in the lease after relocation. In this case, I would like to admit that it was not quite accurate when I linked the lease to Section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2, when the lease is located in a small property with a lease-setting according to Section 29c of the Housing Regulation. However, this does not alter the fact that the issue is there and that something needs to be done about it. I will look into this when the current conciliation expires, and the procedure of premonitioning excessive increases in rents is the same, whether the rent is regulated under one or the other paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150059	Thank you for your answer. Not exactly was the minister's answer. Why, however, will the Minister not just stand by and say that it was a mistake to use it as a guiding example in the indignation of the Minister? I also believe that the Minister in Berlingske said on 10 November: if I had not seen it myself, I would think it was a lie. Is it not a little too bad that the concrete example where rent is proposed is raised from DKK 11,000? for 36,000 kroner. 2, is used for inappropriate adjustments to the rent when the example correctly relates to § 29c? So I think perhaps the Minister is getting away with it by saying that it was not quite accurate. Now the Minister actually had the opportunity to defend himself in the DR's Detector, who brought an article about this and had asked the Minister whether the Minister would run for interview. The Minister would not, and the Minister did as many of his colleagues did: failed to run for an interview and sent a written comment. But now the Minister is given the opportunity to acknowledge in this Chamber that the Minister has made a mistake, and can he not make it a little clearer than to say that it was not quite precise? Can the Minister not stand today by the fact that the example given by the Minister was misleading and was not correct in the discussion on § 5 para. Two?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150239	No, I don't agree with that. I agree that the current discussion on foreign capital funds is very relevant, also for this example, because it was precisely one of them. That's what I put up on my facebook page and described in pretty big detail. So it is true that in the feature that was in P1 Morning, I was imprecise in my use of that example, but that doesn't change that raising the rent from DKK 11,000. for 36,000 kroner. is completely outside the standards we work by in Denmark, and that is a huge problem if the landlords do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150316	But does the Minister not think that the Minister should use examples relating to the legal clause currently under discussion? I think it is a question of us, as politicians, also ensuring that there is a proper and objective debate, that we use examples that relate to the issues we are discussing. I think it would be fair if the Minister were to say something more clearly: yes, it was a clear mistake; I regret that. Let us discuss, on the basis of what is factually correct, not on the basis of an example that concerns something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150347	There are plenty of examples in the daily press and in DR which relate to section 5 paragraph 5. If the rapporteur is interested in this, then we can just keep up. And then I would say that the fact that I am not answering is something I disagree with. I discussed it with my press manager, and without having done so or without having any precise figures, I think I am running up to two thirds of the inquiries I am getting. So I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150411	But not to the inquiry from Detector, where the Minister was to measure whether it was a correct example. I understand that the Minister takes it a little relaxed there were other examples too, but it would be appropriate for the Minister to stand by the fact that the example used by the Minister was wrong, instead of saying that it was not quite accurate. Could the Minister not dare to admit it and say: yes, it was a mistake and I regret that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150439	The example I used is very clear on my facebook page, and it has been shared many times, so I am sure Torsten Schack Pedersen has also had the opportunity to see it if he would like. There I am not saying that, and it is in the letter that has been put out, because there was an interest in whether this example was something I had come up with, i.e. if no one had been given notice of a rent increase from DKK 11,000. for 36,000 kroner. Then I put it out so that everyone could see it, and thus you can also see which paragraph it was made after. But it is true that what I said in P1 morning was inaccurate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150511	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The next person to ask questions to the Minister for Housing is Mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150523	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150525	Thank you. Can the Minister state what considerations the government has made about the lack of opportunities for Danes to live in general family homes as a result of the ghetto package and the consequent reduction in the number of general family homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150543	Thank you for the question. The agreement on combating parallel societies is not about reducing the number of general family homes. It is about creating more mixed cities and preventing Denmark from being ethnically and socially divided. Therefore, the Parallel Society Agreement calls for a more mixed housing mix in the most vulnerable areas. Municipalities and housing organisations decide for themselves how they will achieve the 40 per cent target of the agreement. general family residences. In the development plans I have approved, various tools have been chosen, each of which is effective in the specific local areas. The plans show that new construction is the most widely used tool and that sales and demolition are mainly used where it has a broader purpose in relation to the development of the district. In Tingbjerg in Copenhagen, general family homes are not to be sold or demolished. Instead, 1,500 new private homes are being built, and business and infrastructure must be developed. In total, the development plans will mean new construction of over 10,000 new housing units, about a quarter of which are occupations. In the large residential areas such as Tingbjerg, Gellerup, Bispehaven and Vollsmose, approx. 6,000 new homes. This is 3,700 more homes than today, and the net increase in the 15 most exposed residential areas is 3,645 homes. At the same time, new general housing will be built outside the exposed residential areas. For example: the 1.000 general dwellings torn down in Vollsmose are replaced by just as many homes elsewhere in Odense. Finally, with the parallel social agreement, the Social Democratic Party has ensured that an economic benefit for the sale of general family homes can be used for the construction of general family homes elsewhere. So the premise that the parallel society agreement aims to reduce the number of dwellings is not, in my view, correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150720	Thank you, Minister. First of all, I think it is discriminatory to place fellow citizens on a ghetto list. It is obscene, according to radical opinion and contrary to everything our Danish values consist of, as we see it, that is, when you hand out ghetto stamps and force people out of their homes. It's symbol politics of the worst drawer. It doesn't solve ghetto problems at all. I can specifically mention a number of so-called hard ghettos, those who have been on the list for five years. It is about Munkebo and Skovparken, Finland's Park in Vejle, Stengårdsparken in Esbjerg, just to mention some. Where are these people going to live when they can no longer be allowed to live in the so-called ghetto areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150803	I am well aware that the Radical Left disagrees with this legislation, and that is, of course, perfectly reasonable. However, I would like to say that if some of the examples mentioned here are to be asked which people are being asked. The questioner mentions Finland Park in Vejle. In Finland's park in Vejle nothing is to be torn down. I don't want to sell anything. A mixed housing area is created by building a number of new buildings to reduce the proportion of general family homes to 68 per cent for which a derogation has been applied for. So there are no people moving out of Finland's park in Vejle.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150838	It is Finland's park in Vejle concrete, but what about Munkebo and the Forest Park in Kolding, I ask? And will the Minister specifically promise that no one will lose their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150846	After all, there is a fairly high rate of relocation from general housing, especially in vulnerable residential areas. In areas like Taastrupgaard, every fourth resident moves within the first year they live there. And the general removal has been shown in the examples we have already had, i.e. Gellerupparken in Aarhus and Motalavej in Korsør. When you see what's happened there, it's that people have moved on their own. No one had to be forced out. Rehousing has been offered in similar homes locally or in other parts of the city, and it has seemed quite reasonable as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150922-2	But can the Minister specifically promise that no one will lose their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204150929	I can promise that there will be resettlement in all the municipalities where a development plan has been drawn up, because that is part of the obligation laid down in the legislation. However, it is clear that I cannot guarantee that out of the thousands of people living in dwellings who need to be demolished in order to create new housing areas that are more mixed, there will be some who say: I will, however, so far it is our experience to find friendly solutions where there is a sensible transfer and where everyone is actually satisfied with it at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151001	Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg. The next person to ask questions to the Minister for Housing is Mrs. Heidi Bank, and there is a questioner, and that is Mr. Heidi Bank. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151016	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151018	When does the Minister think it would be appropriate for the Minister to present the Government's proposal for a specific model in the negotiations on a possible amendment of § 5 (3)? 2, in the Housing Regulation Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151037	We expect to present the government's bid for a concrete model this week.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151043	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151046	I have to say that I am very pleased to hear that, because we have wondered at the degree of responsibility that has been shown by the Minister of Housing on this point. After all, there has been not just one meeting, but two meetings, and my question to the Minister for Housing is: How can it be that at an earlier stage the Minister for Housing, when you have gone out as clearly as the Minister for Housing has done in this area and helped to create so much uncertainty and insecurity among the country's cohabitants, has had something done about it in the past, has come earlier with a concrete offer in relation to this area? And does the Minister think it is timely care to wait so long and call parties without presenting anything concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151131	The Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151132	In concrete terms, I have presented which of the models presented by the group of experts I think are the best. I am now presenting the overall bid this week, and it requires a number of calculations to be able to do so, and it has obviously taken some time. But I think it is a little strange that the Left should come here and ask me for a bid without giving any indication of how to solve the problem and how to deal with the models that the expert group has presented over a month ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151203	Well, we've been reporting all along that we're ready to find some sensible solutions here. Some of the things I have just said and asked the Minister about were good and it is good that some models are being presented, but we can see that they have major consequences, that is to say really great consequences, for the country's co-habitants • what the minister will do about it. There we have the answer that the Minister will bring something in writing. We have not received that yet; we are still going away and waiting. So why is it that in the past you can't come up with something that kind of gives a proper answer to this, so that you can create something more secure among the country's cohabitants?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151241-2	As I have said, it has not come before us because we would like it to be taken into account and we would like to see what we are doing to ensure that what we are doing is correct. However, I have to say that I find it strange that I should have that criticism from the Left, because the Left itself did not point to anything in relation to the group of experts which the Left itself helped to set up and which produced their report over a month ago. You have not arrived at which models you prefer or whether you prefer none of them. Instead, you ask for some calculations that you can't get at the level of detail you are asking for, as already stated in the previous answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151313	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, for a 1 minute question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151319	Thank you. As a follow-up to the answers given by the Minister for Housing, I think there is reason to welcome the fact that, prior to the meeting to be held tomorrow, a model can be expected from the government, which can then be dealt with. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151335	I told you I'm gonna come with my model this week, but I don't want to set a fixed time. But I am looking forward to it, and I have been told that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen will attend tomorrow, and he is very welcome to the meeting of my ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151347	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151349	Now it may not be the Home Minister's personal ministry, but now it is something you have on loan, so it may be that the Minister stops at some point. But does that mean that we cannot be told that there is something coming from the government before tomorrow's meeting? Is it true that it might as well come Friday?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151404	Yeah, that's right. You can't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151407	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Heidi Bank who can put the last question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151415	I have to say that I am somewhat surprised to hear that the Minister cannot clearly tell us when something will be brought forward to give some answers to the country's cohabitants. Surely it cannot be that the Minister is standing here in the finest Chamber of Parliament and cannot give an answer as to whether there will be an answer on Thursday or whether there will be an answer on Friday. How hard can it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151439	That is where the rapporteur is quite wrong. I have said that it will come this week, so that is a clear enough answer. Before the rapporteur sees that the indications show midnight on Sunday, the rapporteur has received an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151449	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S 398, which is also for the Minister for Housing, and the questioner is Mrs Sophie Løhde, and there is a questioner who is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151505	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151507	Thank you for that, President. I'm hurrying to read the question. Will the Minister give a guarantee that any agreement to amend Article 5 (5) will be amended? 2 of the Housing Regulation Act does not reduce the value of the cooperative housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151520	The extent to which an intervention affects the valuation of cohabitation properties and thus the value of the units depends on the intensity. The expert group's report proposes seven different proposals for an adjustment of Section 5 (1). 2 and I understand from the questions put by the Left that it is important to know the precise meaning of each intervention in each municipality. Thus, in a single question, the Left has asked for the loss of crowns and percent for each model described, also the alternative models, i.e.. for seven models. It will have four price categories for each municipality throughout the country and for public and value-rated properties. This gives 2 times 7 times 4 times 99 times 2 calculations, i.e. 11,088 different calculations, and here even the possibility that the seven proposals can be combined into an even larger number is not included, so even more calculations will have to be made if a full coverage is to be made. That is just one question out of the seven that the Left has asked, although the Left in the expert group's report can read that there are no such detailed statistics. I have made it clear, and I am happy to say it again, that cooperative housing should not be affected by intervention. Therefore, we are looking at different solutions that allow each shareholder to legally charge the maximum price for the share as they could before the amendment of § 5 (1). 2. In this way, the intervention does not result in the technical insolvency of the shareholders. However, as I have said, I cannot give a guarantee that, following a change in the Housing Regulation Act, there will not be as much as one cohabitation that is impaired in value as there are many other factors that affect the value of cohabitation. Nor do I recall that the previous government issued a guarantee that not a single cooperative house would lose value when we jointly concluded in 2007 the agreement on more robust cooperative housing associations, where we just tightened up the value of the cooperative housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151659	Now, of course, the Minister has not been Minister for Housing for so long, but one would almost think that it was the Left who was in the Housing Minister's office, since the Minister spends half of his time asking questions to the Left rather than answering the simple question, namely whether the Minister will give a guarantee that an agreement amending § 5 paragraph 5 is made. 2, will not impair the value of the cooperative housing. But it is a guarantee that I must understand the Minister is unable and will not give the country's 200,000 cohabitants. I think the Minister should be aware that at the moment there are a great many people who are extremely uncertain about their situation and fear that their housing will now lose value when the Minister does not clearly say that the government is prepared to protect the cohabitants in the context of an agreement on a possible amendment to § 5 paragraph 5. 2 of the Housing Regulation Act. It is, of course, maximum uncertainty that you sit and give to the country's 200,000 cohabitants. That is why I would like to ask if the Minister will not give a guarantee that what they thought they had to do well with, they may not have, after the government has been on the table, whether the Minister will then guarantee that this government will not make an agreement with a narrow red majority, but will of course ensure that action is taken, then it is over the middle of Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151823	I think this way the Left goes to it is interesting. You make a statement last week demanding and making the ultimate demand for a guarantee. But it is a guarantee that everyone knows is already on the table. That is what I have already said to the Left Party when we negotiated it. And if you look at the media coverage, you just have to see that the announcement made by the Left was so obvious that it was put all the way in the back of the TV programme on page 18 of the Politiken. It is of course interesting because it is basically a question of whether the Left is interested in negotiating not to make ultimate demands until you have even shown what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151902	So, the Left has come to all the negotiating meetings. I myself have had the opportunity to participate in some of them. But it has to be said that momentum is not exactly what this minister has yet achieved. It has mostly been talk and a large number of questions that have not been answered. And it is absurd that we should be listening to this today when the Minister says that he will not give the country's cohabitants a guarantee that their housing will not now lose value. That is, of course, what means that there are a lot of people at the moment who have a very, very high level of insecurity as far as their housing is concerned. That is why I think there are many who would like to hear: will the government then give a guarantee that you will not do this by a narrow red majority? If changes are to be made, it is of course over the middle of Danish policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151945	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204151946	No, I don't want to give that guarantee either. I will not give the Left a right of veto over these negotiations, if that is what the Left imagines they will have. However, I have to say that the approach in which the Left sends questions, in which one question calls for 11,088 different calculations on something that the Left can read in the expert report that one cannot calculate, is rather strange. Why do you require calculations for the municipality of Læsø, where there are no cohabitants? Why do you ask questions that you know perfectly well cannot be answered? That's a weird way to go about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152018	Thank you. Then there is the possibility that the co-questioner, Mrs Heidi Bank, may ask questions for one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152025	I can hear that the Minister is doing everything he can to avoid what we would just like some answers to. One of the things we would like an answer to is precisely what the Minister means when he says in a statement: I will not guarantee that there is not a single place in Denmark where a cohabitant will experience just a tiny loss. In other words, we have asked about it several times, also because the Minister is a little bit, I would say arrogant to the cohabitants using such a wording: I cannot guarantee that it will not cost a cohabitant a penny. With exactly the models that have been put forward in the meetings we have had and where we have just not received an answer to the part relating to the cooperative housing, that is to say their security, it will cost far more than a penny for the cohabitants. So what is it? Is it 5%, is it 10%, is it 20%, that the minister believes that those cohabitation units should lose in value? You can only answer that very simply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152126	I have answered it simply from the beginning. I don't want the shareholders to lose value on this piece of legislation. The rapporteur and everyone else have heard that. But this is more, I think, about wanting to whip up some dust and run a campaign, just as the Left is campaigning on Facebook about all Copenhagen's shareholders being ruined; so it's more about scoring some cheap points than it's about negotiating an agreement that actually frees the co-operatives and which I'm going to do in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152151	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152153	In fact, I would say that this is the first time I have heard the Minister say clearly that it should not cost the cooperatives anything. Well, now I don't hear anything like that, you can't give a guarantee that it can't cost a penny. This is the first time I have heard it, and I am genuinely pleased with that statement by the Minister. So, what I'm hearing is that the minister says it's not going to cost Danish cohabitants a penny. I hope you understand that correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152217	No, I would like to define for myself what I'm saying, and what I'm saying is that we're not going to let the shareholders pay for this procedure. But when the Left asks whether, from 11,088 different calculations, one can guarantee that in each of the 11,088 calculations there will be no one who loses a penny, the Left forgets that the cost of the units depends on a large number of factors, among others. what ownership apartments cost on the property market, for that is an alternative to co-operative housing. That is why, of course, I cannot give a guarantee where all the people can then come back and say: hey, my co-habitation fell in price. Because I cannot control the development of the owner-occupied market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152250	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sophie Løhde for the last question in this Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152300	Yes, we will certainly get some answers in this Chamber today, but unfortunately answers that give maximum insecurity, because the Minister will not guarantee security for the country's 200,000 cohabitants, we must understand the Minister's reply. And the Minister will not guarantee that the government will not intervene with a narrow red majority. So that is at least maximum uncertainty, one must say, and clear message to the country's 200,000 cohabitants. So I would like to hear: since it is that we have been called to a negotiating meeting tomorrow and the Minister is today saying that there will be a model during this week, does that mean that tomorrow's meeting is the pure theatre, so that we have to come up for discussions with the Minister, knowing that the Minister will come up with a model at a later date?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152347	The left can choose to come to that meeting and play theater if they want to, but for me this is a pretty serious matter. It is not just about the 209,000 cohabitation units; it is also about a lot of other things. It will then suit the Left to take it seriously and instead of campaigning in the media and instead of discussing it here in Parliament, take a real discussion when sitting in the negotiating room. So we have not wanted to do so until now, but I hope we will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152412	Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Housing, and that is what Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. And there's a co-questioner who's Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152423	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152424	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister agree with the government's support party Enhedslisten, who believes that § 5 (1). 2 of the Housing Regulation Act must be abolished completely and is therefore ready to accept that cooperative housing can lose up to half of their value?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152439	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152443-2	Does this mean that the Enhedslisten will not be included in an agreement if they maintain their political desire? And that also means that the Minister is ready to make an agreement, such as, for example: had to exclude Enhedslisten and SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152500	That depends entirely on the further course of negotiations. But what is being asked here is whether I agree with the government support party Enhedslisten that the paragraph should be abolished, and the answer is that I do not agree with that; I think it would be bad in many different ways, and therefore I do not think it should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152518	Thank you. I think that was actually a relatively clear statement. Now there is this much-discussed meeting tomorrow, which everyone is looking forward to and to which we also look forward from the Left. If that meeting is to have a character in which there is also momentum in the negotiations, does the Minister intend to give us, as one of the parties to the meetings, the opportunity to prepare us by providing us with a model on the part of the government to which we can relate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152552	I know that people are trying to ask in many different ways, but when do I publish that model, I will not say here. We are conducting negotiations in the negotiating room... we are not conducting negotiations in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152603	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Dahlin. Speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152608	Is it my understanding, then, that when the Minister says that negotiations are being held in the negotiating room and not in the Assembly Chamber or in public, that the model proposed by the Minister will not be shared with the public, but will only be shared in the negotiating room?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152624	I am sure that it will also be publicised.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152632	Well, then we'll have to look forward to seeing when it's coming. We are asking for it, and I believe that the country's many cohabitants are doing so, because the Minister, with his public announcements and not in the negotiating room, has created massive uncertainty. I would like to ask about the Minister's support parties SF and Enhedslisten. Can the Minister imagine making an agreement without SF and Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152655	I want to say that I think it's touching that all of you Leftmen who live in owner-occupied homes are teaching me what it's like to live in a cohabitation and what kind of feelings you have about it. But I would say that I am open for all parties to participate in an agreement, of course also SF and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152713	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152716	I think it may be a bit arrogant that the Minister should stand and explain that one should not be interested in problems relating to a particular type of housing if one does not live in the particular type of housing. I think the Minister should keep himself too good to do that. I also find it strange that the Minister will not give Parliament information on when a model will actually be put on the table. It is not, it can be said, a great thing to tell the Folketing when one can expect that the government actually has a position on the issue which filled a great deal in the election campaign and which the Social Democrats were at least very concerned about, but where one has to understand that it is now very difficult to come up with a concrete model. And it's certainly not someone you want to talk about here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152803	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152804	I have drawn the attention of the Left to the model we prefer. This is the one called Model B and Alternative Model 3 if the author should not have read the report. And I said quite clearly at the time of publication of the report that this was the model in which I saw most perspectives. What the Left, on the other hand, means, I do not know. I have not received the slightest indication of where the Left stands but that you go out with big fanfares and promise that you won't do anything where the cooperative houses lose a penny, which everyone else agrees with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152838	Thank you. We shall continue and move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 401, which is also for the Minister of Housing, and that is what Mr. Morten Dahlin, and there's a fellow inquirer who's Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152849	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152850	What does the Minister consider to be a tiny loss on the value of a cooperative residence, as the Minister, according to Berlingske on 29 October, should have said in connection with the press conference on the expert group's report on § 5 para. 2, in the Housing Regulation Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152908	It is difficult to indicate exactly what a tiny loss is. As you know, the extent to which an intervention affects the cooperative housing depends on the intensity of the intervention. I will not be able to support the abolition of Article 5 (5). 2, so we're not talking about up to half the value of the cohabitants. In order to ensure that the cooperative housing is least affected by intervention, we look at different solutions that allow the individual shareholder to legally charge the maximum price for the share that could be taken before the amendment of Section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2. How the housing market develops in general, I am not master of, and it would be wrong of me to promise that no shareholder will suffer a loss in the years to come, because by its very nature I do not know how, for example. The owner-occupied market is evolving.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204152949	Thank you, Minister. The Minister says that it is not up to half, and then the Minister starts talking about all sorts of other factors that affect the price of the share. But now it is the intervention that the Minister has announced that we are discussing today. On the one hand, the Minister says that it is not up to half that you can lose. But on the other hand, the minister says he's ready to take a tiny loss. So what it might be interesting to know here today is: where is the Minister's border? Where's the red line for the minister? How much loss will the Minister accept that the shareholders should take as a result of the intervention that the Minister has called for negotiations on?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153029	Of course, I have not said that I accept that people should take a tiny loss, but I have said that I cannot guarantee that no one will get it. I cannot guarantee that, because the pricing of cohabitation units is dependent on a wide range of factors. And when the Left asks me a question in which they ask me to account for 11,088 different calculations where no one in any category loses a crown, it is a very comprehensive guarantee to give, because I do not have control over how the ownership of the market is developing, and that has a huge impact on how the price of cohabitants develops.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153105	The Minister now mentions a large number of matters. It is not a whole range of matters that we are discussing here today in the Parliamentary Assembly. Nor is it a large number of matters on which the Minister has called for negotiations. This is a specific intervention that the Minister wishes to make. And I'm just asking again so that those who have a cohabitation can feel safe: what is the Minister's pain limit? How much damage can be expected as a result of the intervention announced by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153133	I have it in this way that cohabitants should not lose money and that cohabitants should not see in April that their cohabitation has become less valuable. That is what I have said from the outset. The Radical Left has said so from the outset. Many others have said so from the beginning. So for the fact that the Left believes that it is a very big news that you go out and say that cohabitants should not lose money, I have to say that nobody else thinks so. Politiken didn't think so either, and that's why you put the news at the back because you could see that you kicked in an open door.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153201	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løhde as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153206	After all, it is the Minister himself who has said at a press conference that there are cohabitants who may experience a tiny loss, because the Minister will certainly not guarantee the opposite. So the Minister is prepared for the country's cohabitants to prepare for a loss of value. The problem is that no one knows how much, and that's why we're trying to learn more about it. If it's not half, okay, it's underneath it. What, then, is the government's pain limit in relation to an acceptable loss of value from the point of view of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153241	We are not at all interested in a loss of value. I'm going into these negotiations, and that's it. There's no majority in the Danish Parliament at all. I don't even know if there's a single party in the Danish Parliament that's ready to make an agreement that's going to cost the cohabitants their share value, so it's so easy. But I understand that in the Left you want to do a campaign on it, make facebook ads on it and keep writing out about it, because you imagine that you can put a scare in people's lives, and I have to say that is what is happening. When you run campaigns like this, people get nervous about it, of course, and I think it's a shame that you run it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153316	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153317	But that nervousness could be removed by the Minister in a split second by giving a guarantee to the country's cohabitants that the government does not contribute to an intervention which means that you will experience a loss of value. We have asked that repeatedly in the Parliamentary Chamber, and the Minister will not give that guarantee, and that is why we are asking. I am in favour of the Minister not going and hoping for a loss of value, but it is also necessary not only to respond with a completely free round and to realise the consequences of the decisions and proposals that are being put forward. In relation to the places where you are willing to make an agreement, we ask: Where is the government's pain limit? How much will it be acceptable for the country's cohabitants to experience loss of value? I think that is a question that 200,000 others would very much like to have an answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153401	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153402	I just have to say that it is very strange that in 2017, the Left could make an agreement in which no guarantees were sought and where no guarantees were even talked about for shareholders, and that now, before you have even gone into the negotiating room, you have decided on the models in the report of the group of experts that you yourself have helped to set up before you have even taken a position on it before you have even entered the negotiating room, standing and demanding that I guarantee 11,088 calculations of different models, where no one should lose a penny. Even in Læsø Municipality, where there are no cohabitants, you will have a calculation of how much they lose. I can't believe you run it like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153436	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, who ends up with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153439	Thank you. The Minister is very concerned about who is on the front page of Politiken, who is on page 18, where people live etc., and the Minister is not particularly interested in giving a very concrete answer. I simply do not understand why the Minister is not merely putting an end to the uncertainty which he is accusing the Left of creating by simply guaranteeing here today that the Minister will not, of course, take any action which would undermine the value of the cooperative housing, even with a tiny loss that we cannot define. Why does the Minister not want to shake off that uncertainty and give a guarantee that the Minister's intervention will not impair the value of the shareholders?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153518	I have said this quite clearly from the beginning: we will not let the shareholders pay, and the shareholders can go down to their general meeting in April, and then they will be able to see that there has been no loss on their cooperative homes. But guaranteeing to the Left 11,088 different calculations and guaranteeing that there will not be shareholders who lose money as a result of the development of the ownership of the market, I will not do, and it is not the Left who decides how I guarantee or how I do not guarantee. I say this quite clearly: we are not going to throw the shareholders off the bus, and the shareholders will be able to go down to their general meeting in April, where they will see that their accommodation has not fallen in value.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153552	Thank you. The next question I want to ask you about the Home Secretary's name is mr. Nils Sjøberg, and that is Question No. 392.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153604	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153607	Thank you. Does the Minister think that as many general family homes as are being demolished and removed from the general housing market as a result of the ghetto plan should be built?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153619	Yes, as a starting point. It is an independent objective for me that more general housing is being built, especially where there is a lack of cheap housing and a tendency towards increased social and ethnic division. With the development plans, more private housing will be built in general areas, and at the same time I will work towards the creation of more general family homes, especially in attractive urban areas. But there must be a need for general family housing if new buildings are to be built. There are towns where the supply of general family homes is above the local housing market. There is no substitute here for general housing one for one. One example was Motalavej in Korsør, with many common family homes in relation to demand, and where the municipality and the housing organisation were already reducing the number of general family homes before we adopted the parallel community agreement. However, there are also municipalities that give commitments to new general housing, and it is the municipalities that know the local needs. But I will do what I can to support general construction where there is a need for good cheap housing. The Folketing has among other things: last week adopted L 12, which makes it easier and cheaper for private housing organisations to cooperate with private builders, and I have just sent a legislative proposal in consultation, which allows the additional purchase price to be deducted from the establishment of general housing, where there are already general dwellings, and this makes congestion cheaper and easier. The government's aim is to establish 110,000 more dwellings, including a large proportion of the general population, but they must lie where there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153741	I understand from my previous question to the Minister that there is no guarantee of housing for the removal of all those who move from a ghetto area. Does this mean that the Minister believes that it is first necessary to build new ones before moving citizens from a ghetto area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153759	I think it depends a lot on the local situation. As I also say, you have, for example. in Korsør a transfer and has had it for decades, and there doesn't make sense building anything new. But in Aarhus Municipality, for example, more than 400 homes have been built every year for many years, and there you can easily accommodate what is being reduced in Bispehaven and Gellerupparken, and elsewhere I would encourage people to do the same. That is also why, as rapporteur, I made sure that when you sell a general dwelling, for example. in Mjølnerparken, can use the money to build new general housing for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153835	When you remove general housing, which is involved in government planning, with the ghetto list, a group of citizens lose the opportunity to have a place to live in the same way as they do now. Is this in line with social democracy's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153854-2	It is in line with the policy of the Social Democratic Party that there must be more general housing on Strandvejen and more private housing in Tingbjerg, and that is because we want mixed residential areas, and I also believe that there are many local radical politicians who want it. Then you can discuss the way to it. How do we create a society where you meet each other across ethnic and social divides? I think that part of it is also to say that in some areas, such as Vollsmose and Gellerupparken, which account for more than half of the demolitions that are, there is a need to do things differently. After all, the recognition is today that we would not build the areas in the way they were built if we were to build them today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153928	Thank you. Does this mean that the Minister can promise that those families who need cheap housing will also have the opportunity to do so in future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204153936	In any case, I believe that we must realise that not all vulnerable residential areas are necessarily very cheap. In some places they are more expensive than the general rent average. What I think serves as a model in this discussion is what Aarhus Municipality has done for the first time with Gellerup and now again, where the general housing organisations come together to ensure that everyone can be refurbished in similar occasions at a similar price. I think this is exemplary, and I hope that there are many municipalities that will also look that way in terms of how they plan the resettlement in the individual areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154008	Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg, and thank you to the Minister for Housing. We got through all the questions in time. The next person to ask questions is sir. Christian Juhl, and that is for the Minister for the Environment, and that is Question No. 349.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154124	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154127	I'm sorry to the Minister if she's been waiting. Will the Minister tighten up the rules for the discharge of toilet waste from pleasure boats and ensure the necessary control?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154140-2	Everything left behind, and thank you for the question. Let me start by stating that there must of course be control of toilet waste from boats, and I understand that it is an unpleasant experience to see waste, especially of that nature, floating around when you are sailing in canoe or fishing in the Silkeborg Islands. Fortunately, the rules in this area are also quite clear: it is not permitted under any circumstances to empty its toilet tank in Danish lakes and streams. In relation to control, it is the responsibility of the municipalities to monitor that no toilet waste is discharged from both our lakes and streams. The Municipality of Silkeborg has informed the Ministry that they are aware of the rules and they have also informed the Silkeborg Fisheries Association about them. However, I understand that the Silkeborg Fisheries Association has a wish that the municipality should prohibit pleasure boats that have a flap to extract toilet waste from sailing in the Silkeborg Islands. The municipality cannot do that according to the current rules, and I have therefore asked the Ministry to look at how big the problem is and whether it might be possible to create a legal basis for requiring the sealing of the bathroom tanks of yachts. I will return to the questioner in writing when I have clarified that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154301	Thank you. That was one step along the way. I think it is important to say that the municipality also says that it cannot intervene against these boats. I think that is a weakness in the system. If a municipality is to keep an eye on the area, it must also be able to intervene, for example. forbid that you have a cork at the bottom of the boat, you can just pull up when you sail. It looks awful when you see what it looks like. We have had examples of this. It's not just the Silkeborg Islands. There are really, really many places where this is going on. I mean, the municipality has established tanks where you can empty your toilet container, and that's why it's quite meaningless that there's a sloppy thing about this. I believe there is a need for a strengthened authority so that the municipalities can intervene and stop such things, because it is the municipalities that allow you to have your boat lying there and so on. It is of course well registered who has the boats, and therefore it is not a big task for the municipalities to solve. How many new cases will it take for the Minister to think that something other than consideration and investigation should take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154414	As I have said, I have asked the Ministry to look at the scope in the first place, because it is clear that if we are to change the rules, it is of course also relevant to know how big the problem really is. Because it is not the case that there are no rules that say that it is clearly illegal to do so. And it will usually be punished with a fine. Of course, one might ask: how good are the possibilities for municipalities to actually enforce it? They must, of course, refer either to reports from citizens or to the fact that there are slam-suckers available in the ports. There is also in the Motorboat Club in Silkeborg, and they can of course also inform the sailors about the rules in force. However, as I said, I would very much like to examine the extent of the problem and return in writing to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154502	But I also ask: what if it is not possible to examine the extent of the problem? Because nobody stands up and says that they usually do that once a month; I don't believe that. If the municipalities do not enforce the rules, then the municipalities have no reason to say that so and so many times they have intervened against these things. Is it true that it is the municipalities that must both control and enforce and also impose a fine? Or who is the real authority in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154538	It is up to the municipalities to monitor compliance with the rules, but it is clear, as I also say, that one can ask: how big is the problem? It's a little hard to estimate. There have been some examples and I can well understand that it is deeply unsatisfactory that the rules are sometimes violated. But vice versa if we now say that everyone sailing in the Silkeborg Islands must plomb their toilet tank, is that the scale of the problem? That is why I think that, before you start to change the rules, it is also sensible to try to look at what kind of problem you are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154613	But I actually asked: is it the responsibility of the municipalities to intervene and pay a fine? That is very unclear, even for the sailors. The second is: What is the reason why not all boats should be sealed, since it is not legal to let faeces into the water? I mean, we might as well plow all the boats and say that then we are beyond that problem, and then we do not have to tempt the boat owners that this is the easiest way to get rid of toilet waste. So that is two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154647	Well, it is then, of course, one can discuss how easily they have it, but it is in fact the municipalities that have to supervise and ensure that the rules are complied with. In relation to this, why not just seal the whole thing, it is because there are also some rules that you have to empty toilet tanks further than 2 nautical miles from the coast, because the assessment is that it does not cause problems in relation to bathers and coastal fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154723	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Christian Juhl It was a shame, because there was just one more question, but I have to talk to the Minister about that). That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191204154735	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 81 (Proposal for a law amending the law on planning, the law on the temporary regulation of housing conditions, the law on nature protection and the law on maritime spatial planning. After publication of proposals for sea plans, etc.) Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 82 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the tax of electricity, the Law on the tax of natural gas, urban gas, etc., the Law on the tax of coal, lignite and coke, etc.) Law on energy taxes on petroleum products, etc. Liselott Blixt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 53 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of elderly people to opt out of revival attempts). Peter Skaarup (DF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Pernille Vermund (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 54 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the immediate cessation of sales of Roundup and other means of combating private use in gardens and public areas (Citizen's Proposal)). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 5 December 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
