ParlaMint-DK_20190402130025	The meeting is open. I have received the following letter from the Prime Minister. According to the Prime Minister's recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 26 March 2019 provided for the transfer of responsibility for the collection, storage and destruction of ammunition and fireworks from the Minister of Justice to the Minister for Defence. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 26 March 2019 provides that the responsibility for the collection, storage and destruction of ammunition and fireworks is transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister for Defence. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130055	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 85 by Peter Kofod (DF), Trine Bramsen (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V), Søren Søndergaard) EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Nase Khader (KF). The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 85 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130203	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130222	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 10-12 outside the report by the Minister of Justice as adopted. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130309	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130315	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Four of a minority, the Enhedslisten, joined by another minority, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative, and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 5, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6-18, member of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130436	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130442	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130515	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130522	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 4 and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, 5 and 6 members of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130640	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130646	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130722	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130753	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130759	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130817	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402130839	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorisation of Healthcare Persons and on Healthcare Activities]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 by a minority (EL), elected by a majority (S, DF, ALT, SF and RV), or on Amendment No. 2 by a minority (EL), or on Amendment No. 2 by a majority (S, DF, ALT, SF and RV), or by a majority (S, DF, ALT, SF and RV). 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee)? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorisation of Healthcare Persons and on Healthcare Activities]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 of a minority (EL), elected by a majority (the other committee)? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the proposal referred to in A should be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I propose that the proposal referred to in B go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? That has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402131546	The debate is open. Unfortunately, we do not have a few rapporteurs, but they may be joining us, so I think we should just start the debate. And that's Question No. F 34. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 4 April 2019. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402131613	We are about halfway into the trial period that we have had with www.citizenslag.dk, and in the alternative we think it might be interesting to have such a status debate midway around on how it has worked. What has worked well, what has worked less well, and how has this affected the democratic debate in this Chamber, in society and perhaps also in our own party groups? The last thing I'll come back to when I give my real speech. And that's why we've called for an inquiry with the Prime Minister. Pelle Dragsted said to me a moment ago: is there not a text for adoption? And I said: no, there is not, and it is quite conscious, because we really think that this is not about whether one block or another is right, but more about having a very open debate on how this system has actually worked and what considerations we are considering. And I would just like to mention some specific figures for www.citizenslag.dk. A total of 311 proposals have been published and five of them have obtained more than 50,000 signatures, that is, from citizens who have supported them. And the five topics have been the ceiling on education, the abolition of ministerial pensions, the ban on genital mutilation, organ donation and climate legislation. All subjects that are essential to discuss, regardless of what we each think about them. A total of 800,000 have signed and this covers the fact that just over 300,000 have been actively involved. And one thing that has struck me as something quite interesting in these figures is that there have been about 31⁄2 million visitors to the website www.citizenslag.dk, and if you compare with similar visits to the Danish Parliament's website, there are 2.6 million who have visited the Danish Parliament's website. So there has been much more to look at www.citizenslag.dk. So I hope that we will have a genuinely curious debate, and I am very excited to hear what the various parties are thinking about this, and, of course, not least those parties which were sceptical about citizens' proposals when we adopted it at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402131834	Thank you for that, and we'll move on with the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402131846	Thank you for that and thank you for raising this question. I'm glad. After all, this is an important and fundamental agenda, which basically is that we must engage most of the people in democracy. And that is the ambition of a living people's government and something that I believe and know can unite us all. There is then this system of citizens' proposals which has been in operation for just over a year, and I am left with the impression that the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure has decided that the system should be made permanent. As such, I shall not interfere. I represent a government consisting of three parties that have had different approaches to the proposal initially. But I would like to say something about the first year. Because that is quite right, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk says there's been a lot of activity. More than 300 proposals have been put forward, about 35 of them have received support from more than 5 000, and so not just a single swallow, I would have liked to say, which does not do any summer, but which covers a political issue in which many Danes are involved. And there are five proposals that have received more than 50,000 signatures and therefore have been tabled in the Folketing as a motion for a resolution. None of them have been adopted in their final form, but it has, of course, influenced the debates in here. You can see that, and it's very natural. After all, the citizens' proposals reflect what is happening in many people. We can, for example. take the current citizens' proposal for a new climate law. We face challenges which are, after all, the greatest of our generation, including as a society and as the world. There is a huge commitment to large sections of the population, and it then finds among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. That's really positive. The commitment that is out there is both an individual commitment to doing something different in one's own everyday life, but it is also a commitment towards Christiansborg that reminds us politicians that we need to take ambitious and effective decisions aimed at the serious climate problems. It is a commitment that is also present in the Folketing, and although I know that from time to time some people are trying to patent this whole discussion, it is a fact that Denmark's leadership role in the green transition and one of the reasons why the UN Secretary-General has asked us to assume direct leadership towards the climate summit in New York in September are based on broad conciliation. This summer, we in the Danish Parliament entered into the greenest energy agreement in Danish history, also with a broad majority, and we have presented an ambitious climate project on less air pollution, cleaner buses in cities, and the historically high ambition to completely phase out the sale of new petrol and diesel cars by 2030, i.e. in just 11 years' time. And that is also a reflection on a debate in our society. That is why it is also my ambition to propose a new climate bill in the next Assembly. At that time there have been parliamentary elections, but our ambitions go beyond the date of the elections. So the government agrees with the thinking that we need a new climate bill, and there are several elements in the bill that run very well with government policy. However, citizens' proposals are far from the only way to engage the population in the climate issue. The Climate Minister has set up a new Youth Climate Council with 10 members elected from 400 applicants, which in itself reveals a huge commitment to Danish youth. A few weeks ago, I and probably many people in this Chamber also met the many children and young people who stood down at the Palace Square. They also stood around the country's other cities, but I met those who stood down in the palace square in front of Christiansborg gathered in a joint call from their generation to our generations. It is important, and in order to prepare a new climate law, the government will hold a public hearing; both with an initial course for the organisation this spring with discussion events around the country about climate, and then a real public hearing, no, public hearing I think is something one has elsewhere, if the concept is found at all but a real public hearing consisting of dialogue meetings spread over the parts of the country, and that part of it should go through the autumn. And this is based on another recent example of the fact that, in an interaction between government and Parliament, we have tried to involve citizens more directly in our democracy. I am thinking here of the good experiences we have had from the citizens' dialogue meetings on the European Union held by Parliament in September in Sønderborg, Herning, Copenhagen and Næstved. And I am also thinking of the debates on the European Union that five national organisations were in charge of putting into the local environments in Denmark on a grant that we placed here. Together, more than 100 debates took place around the country. It all culminated in a public hearing on the European Union held in Odense in November, where among others. The party leaders from all the parties of the Folketing took part, including myself. I remember it myself as a very good and constructive experience, in which I at least took at least two experiences home: firstly, that people came forward with their concerns. We were simply told more about what really concerns the population when, as in this case, we are discussing the European Union. Secondly, and perhaps most importantly, the public hearings also gave participants the opportunity to discover that there are not always easy solutions. Actually, it's rare in life. Life is not sent black and white, it is sent in colors, there are many nuances, and politics is characterized by dilemmas and balances, and often the easy solutions are too easy. So the kind of citizen involvement, which thus builds up some collective knowledge and based on a collective knowledge discusses a dilemma, is really positive because complex questions require complex answers. That is an important realization. This is, in general, an important recognition which one might also want to see spread not only among the citizens but also among us politicians. So I can easily see that, when it comes to major, central issues, and now I mentioned climate as an example of that, we are holding such public hearings in a more systematic way as a complement to our representative democracy. The public debate is an important part of Danish democracy, and it is not only about what is going on here at Christiansborg. We can also benefit from strengthening the popular element by involving citizens more in the way we organise our welfare, in other words putting people ahead of the system. That is why I thought it was interesting that the alternative, which has also raised today's question, now allow me to make it a little wider than just a citizen's proposal with inspiration from Canada, among other things. came up with the idea of citizens' councils in health care. I think it is a good idea, which in fact also fled with the thoughts we had more loosely presented in the government's own health initiative, and which we have then worked on towards the agreement reached by the government and the Danish People's Party a week ago, an ambitious agreement on the health of the future, where we will set up a patient and family council for each of the 21 new health communities. So it can be said that we are bringing responsibility for a number of cooperation decisions into the health communities, where all the mayors and committee chairmen participate in the political superstructure. In this way, we anchor more tasks in local democracy, and then we establish these 21 new patient and family councils with directly elected members, so that among other patients and relatives in each health community can influence things, can convey impressions, can influence decisions, i.e. an opportunity for citizens to be the local voice in the local health community. The new Council consists of a board of directly elected members who can address issues in the health community and, in order to ensure a strong link between the councils and the political superstructure of the health community, a member of the Council of Health Communities' political superstructure, as it were, will come from these citizens' and patients' councils. So it should help to ensure that we become more responsive, not only to, you can say, political trends or attitudes, but also to concrete experiences and experiences that citizens who have used or seen others use the system can convey. I think we will have a better and more coherent healthcare system from that. There will be patient representatives on the boards of both Healthcare Denmark and the five health administrations. It is also something new to say that it is not all about party politics, but that the associations that have patients as their focal point will have a direct influence in the management of our health services. I think that's quite unique, and I don't really think you can find other examples in the world where patients are directly involved in the control. For me, it is common sense when we set up our health care management system with the close involvement of our patients, relatives and citizens. Basically, it is a matter of citizens, patients and relatives having some precious experiences, and sometimes also some expensively bought experiences about what is good, what is less good, what has gone wrong and what has succeeded, and we must bring them into play. I say this to also say that I very much welcome taking further steps to involve and engage the population. We're on it. The Youth Climate Council is an example, the public consultation on the EU and climate another, citizen involvement in health a third, so new initiatives and proposals should be more than welcome. Having said that, however, I think it should also be said that the democracy we have is among the most open and alive in the world. We have an extremely representative democracy, and we do not live in a bubble here at Christiansborg, fortunately. The members of parliament, that is my particular impression, have close contact with life outside Christiansborg's walls for meetings around the country, in our everyday life, when we shop in Netto, the dogs walk, on social media. Every Sunday my own such a bit spontaneous, unchoreographed thoughts about politics on Facebook and trying to respond to the comments that come in along the way and it's kind of my general impression that we politicians are better than our reputation in being able to have this direct contact and that citizens can more easily tell the individual politician what's going on and what they think. It is very easy to get in touch with a member of parliament today. We get many inquiries, we engage in many discussions. A great many Danes are engaged in political work, not as much in party work as they saw historically, but in other forms of political work, and that is what we have to find methods for. I think that many of us who have grown out of political youth organisations would love if the Danes were to engage more directly in the party-political system, that is, whatever party they joined, I could mention one rather than others, but yet we would love it, but we might also have to take down the fact that a political commitment can be experienced in many different ways, and we need to know how to catch in. A recent study showed that Denmark is the country in the EU where most people are satisfied with democracy ■ where most people are satisfied with democracy. Nine out of ten Danes are satisfied with the way democracy works in Denmark, and more Danes today are satisfied with democracy than 20 years ago. I think it is an important thing to go forward, because it is not always the impression you are left with when you sit and look at how those who learn about our act in here look at things from the outside, i.e. the most satisfied people in Europe and are more satisfied with the state of things than 20 years ago. So that's actually a pretty good starting point for making it even better. So we must be open to new thinking and open to thinking about new ways of engaging citizens. We must preserve and develop our strong and living democracy. It is a wish that the government and I think all parties of the Danish Parliament can support, and that is why I am glad that we are taking this more fundamental debate today without the need for such strong, precise conclusions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133149	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133152	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his review. I can nod to most of that, I would say, and I should not go in to deal with the more political issue of climate law or health reform. I hear from the Prime Minister that he actually thinks that citizens' proposals.dk have worked as intended, and that of course makes me happy. It is just an element of many elements that you can use in creating a more vibrant democracy. However, can the Prime Minister say a little more about what has done, that the Prime Minister has moved, as I hear it, from what the Left was so worried about at the time, namely that this could actually be a threat to representative democracy? In other words, there were politicians from the Left and the Social Democrats who said that this might even be seen as a threat. And what I now hear from the Prime Minister is: No, that's a good supplement. And that has certainly been the intention from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133258	In order to get the full and nuanced insight into how we in the Left think about this matter, I think I should refer to the rapporteur of the Left. I stand here as Prime Minister of a government consisting of three parties, where the two of them are, after all, in the very broad majority that introduced the citizens' proposals and where my own party, together with the Social Democratic Party, was, if I do not remember wrongly, considerably reserved from some ideas of individual democracy against such a more holistic approach, which the parties are ideally an expression of. I believe that if you ask my party, these fundamental considerations have not changed decisively. That said, I admit that this has been one of many ways of showing a commitment which, of course, also sits down. Well, the whole discussion of a new climate law I think we would have gotten without a citizen's proposal. I actually feel convinced of that, just because there are parties here at Christiansborg who would like to carry it forward. But there is no doubt that this channel and this very specific proposal have provided further impetus for a debate which we, I believe, would have had anyway. And that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133409	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. There's only one question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133413	Thank you for that and thank you for the introduction and for some relevant considerations. I want to hear if we're gonna look a little visionary in the future... if the Prime Minister has read the book called Tamen elite, written by some of these elite researchers sitting at CBS. They propose among many proposals on how to engage citizens more directly in democracy, both in the management of companies, but also here in our political system. The establishment of a new kind of two-chamber system, which means that you have a second chamber, whose members are drawn by lot among all citizens, and where the citizens who are drawn, and this is a little inspired by the Athenian democracy, sit for three years. They then have the right to object, and they do not necessarily have to deal with all the boring legislation we have here in the Folketing, but if there is something that is very important in principle, then they can ask for it to be dealt with there. I just want to know if the Prime Minister has read about these considerations and even considered them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133514	I must say with shame that I have not read this specific book. In time, however, there is a great deal of difficulty in reading so much. On the other hand, I love to come out and talk to Danes and spend my time on it. I think, with reference to what I said before, that we have a strong and viable representative democracy in Denmark. I do not have any proposals for such structural changes. But I think that the experience we have had with citizens' hearings has a taste of the same. I am very much in favour of us trying to involve the general public in political discussions on an enlightened and nuanced basis, and that is one of them. What citizens' hearings can do. It would be such a system, which would then be a slightly more fundamental reform of our people's rule, of course also could. But we could start by practicing with these citizens' hearings. Because it is remarkable to see that something happens, that is, that people move, as knowledge is presented and knowledge is shared, and that it is not such a facebook democracy where you scream to each other. But, at the same time, the same objective basis must be taken into account. It does a lot of good for us, and I would like to see much more of that because, as I said, the world is not simple. It's complex, and the more nuances we get on it, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133637	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133640	Thank you. My party was in favour of citizens' proposals, yet with little concern and concern as to why it was now necessary in Denmark. In Association Denmark we sometimes call it an organizational stronghold... people can gather in all possible ways across social divides and thus have the opportunity to discuss politics, social relations, etc. And we are well aware of the opportunities that the range of organisations have to influence political work, get an appearance and influence on legislation. We, as people, often have enough connectivity in that network. It is in this light that we need to see the citizens' proposals, and that is where we can discuss whether it has moved something in relation to it, or whether the associations and organisations have become too passive or even enough, since the need has arisen I think one could think about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133739	That is also the concern that I personally have had quite basically, i.e. whether this would really put itself in a more powerless position to go the representative path, in other words through representative democracy. At any rate, we must pay close attention to this, because we should not leave anyone with the impression that it would be wrong to hear the Danish political debate only if we go along this path. I believe that all parties are ready to reach out, and I myself come from a party where we have at least in some contexts used a member recruitment slogan which is that we do not have to agree on everything. I think that is also important to uphold, so that you do not get a picture of the fact that if you are to be a member of the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democracy or the Left, then you have to stand in a row, because then we will crumble away as parties, and this country is not served by this. That said, I think that in all fairness to this model it must be said that there have been some issues on the table, which are also being discussed in the parties, but which might not be fully achieved. I can only say that, in my own party, the issue of organ transplantation is not a new debate, but as long as we do not have a uniform position on it, my party will not come down here with a proposal, and then it comes in from the outside and provokes a debate. I think that this is positive, as long as we do not have a success criterion, that the citizens' proposals are only good if they are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133905	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the Prime Minister. Thank you. Now we move on to the general rules for short remarks, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402133933	In other words, if we in the alternative are to assess very briefly whether the citizens' proposals have been successful or whether they have not been successful, we would say that they have met all our expectations. And it has, because the citizens have raised crucial issues and social debates in this Chamber, which did not have such a partisan stamp on their foreheads in advance. As has already been said, we have discussed everything, from the education ceiling to the genital mutilation of boys to a real climate law, such as the latest. And although the proposals have not been voted through, they have helped to shift positions and positions in the Chamber. Last time we saw it in the discussion about the need for a genuinely new, ambitious climate law, and as the Prime Minister himself said, it was something that impressed us all. All parties subsequently went out and said that a new climate law was needed. There were, of course, political nuances, but people supported it. And so it has been in some of the other areas. During the education ceiling discussion we saw that it was not voted through down here in the Chamber, but it certainly caused a party to change its attitude towards the education ceiling a few months later. And that is how the debates have influenced us from party to party. One of the things that has not been very much focused on is how it has affected us within our own party groups. The Prime Minister spoke a little about this in relation to organ donation, where there have been some issues, some issues that have such a more ethical dimension, which are damn difficult to relate to and which can divide the groups. A good example was the question of the circumcision of boys' children, in which the Alternative Parliamentary Group had to invite experts into the group in three rounds, people who had stood in different places in the debate. So we had a lively debate within the group because of the citizens' proposal for the circumcision of boys' children. It also ended up with the fact that we had to release our Members because we did not agree, and so it has been in some of the other party groups. Personally, I changed my mind during the group debate. Well, I started somewhere and ended up in a completely different place than I thought. And it was because of citizens' suggestion.dk. In January, we ourselves took the initiative to invite a hearing on citizens' proposals, and there were four of the proposers in the panel. There were three experts, and there were small hundred participants, citizens who wanted to discuss the scheme. And some of what they said was that they thought it was good, but that it could also be improved. There were a number of suggestions, and I would just like to mention them very briefly. That was among other things. Citizen-driven query debates are not just real motions for resolutions, but question debates. It was also suggested that open committee meetings could be held when the citizens' proposals were discussed, after the debate we have in this Chamber, so that a more ongoing debate could be held and so that it not only died with the discussion we had in this Chamber but also continued in committee. There were proposals that young people under the age of 18 could also table citizens' proposals and also vote on the proposals. When I heard that proposal, I remembered the climate demonstrations that have been in front of Christiansborg a few weeks ago, where we saw how schoolchildren and young people so much cared about the climate agenda. Perhaps they would also like to have a vote in this Chamber. At any rate, something that they agreed on was that we should make citizens' proposals independent of parliamentary term and assembly. In other words, if elections were to be held, the work of the citizens would not be wasted. And there we have given each other such a handshake that this should certainly not be the case in relation to the proposal for a new climate law. So all in all, we think it's been really, really good that we've had this trial period. And now everything suggests that it will also be permanent. What is important for the alternative to say is that this is only one of many measures that can be taken to revitalize democracy, and in the alternative we like to talk about how to build a new democratic bridge between what is happening in this Chamber and what is happening in society. And we see citizens' suggestions as just a stone in this bridge. Sir. Pelle Dragsted has already mentioned another example: a citizen's chamber but there could be many ways to go in and ask: how can we make this house even more active and engaging and democratic without questioning representative democracy? So for good reasons, I and the Alternative are very, very much in favour of citizens' suggestions.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402134437	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur's line. Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402134453	Thank you. Politically, we are at a time when everything is going on a little hectic. Even for experienced politicians, it can be difficult to keep up. Several of us felt the same way at the end of last week, when the President was kind enough to announce that we would make the trial scheme permanent with citizens' proposals. I remembered that we had discussed it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and that we have examined the statistics that were there and that we had also talked about the fact that we were now asked about it and that perhaps some gold grains would fall out of today which could then be included in the further work. I myself had the understanding that we should also wait for a little of today's debate, so I also recommend that we resume the debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure so that we also get today's input into the further work. In the Social Democratic Party we did not vote in favour of the experimental scheme because we believe that citizens have other, perhaps better and more opportunities to engage in the democratic debate in society. There have never been as many parties as now as they could be involved in, but in fact there have never been as few paying members in the party associations as they are now, and I really think that this dilemma is a little important to speak up when we talk about commitment to democratic development and democratic debate. For who is it that engages? Is it some who have a narrow agenda, or is it some who, like the parties, typically have a broad agenda and take responsibility for the development of society as a whole and not only for their own cause? After all, I have an age where I could well say that if all of us over 70 years of age were to go together on some things, standards or number of baths or whatever it might be in the area of the elderly, then I think we could certainly collect 50,000 signatures, but is it something that is good for Welfare Denmark if we are targeting something that alone benefits our own cause? I would also say that it is fine that we got the statistics, and that statistics can be used in a lot of ways. I think that many proposals have come in 311. 17 have been published with remarks. 70 have not been achieved because there are also some conditions that must be met; this can, for example, be done. be the constitution. So there are, in fact, only five proposals out of the 311 that have met all the conditions, and there we have discussed some of them. It is of course not very many, but it is also the first year of the scheme, so we cannot know if next year's statistics look the same. I agree with the authors of the question that a great many people have had to look at the page, namely 782,721, according to the statistics we received in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which is then distributed to 307.500 Members, but we cannot see how many times they have each looked. It also matters how we see the statistics that show that almost 31⁄2 million people have been looking at the page, that is something more compared to how many people have been looking at the Parliament's regular website. I feel at least myself that sometimes I am ten times inside to look at a website, if there is a case that is running, and then I might count by ten times, but I am still only a citizen away, whereas if it is a bit the boring Parliament, it may be only once you are inside to look. So I think we should be careful how we use or misinterpret statistics. But there has been interest and great praise for it. After all, the rapporteurs of the Social Democrats who have had the specific speeches in the Chamber have also praised the issues that have been raised, and they have also praised the debate that has been held. Nor does it cost all the world to run citizens' proposals.dk, so I think we should also bring that information to the public and also to the future. But of course it costs a little to manage the page, but also to check whether the signatures on the proposals are really valid. Then allow me to repeat the appeal that we continue the discussions before there is a final legislative proposal, so that the new Parliament, which will be composed within a few months, can also look at it and also make what needs to be continued their model. Then, in view of the fact that it is 2 April and thus the great poet Hans Christian Andersen's birthday, I would say that it will be exciting to see which of the many adventures we must compare the citizens' proposals with in the future. Is it the ugly duckling that turns into a swan or the one feather that turns into five chickens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135000	Thank you. Perhaps, for the sake of completeness, I should say that we made a decision in principle in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, of course, everything, including what we are discussing now, is included in the legislative proposal which is intended to bring this forward. But it was a decision in principle to do so permanently for the sake of administration, i.e. to continue the huge background work that they are doing. I hear there's a little uncertainty about that, so it's more to clarify it. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135031	Thank you for your feedback from the Social Democratic Party. I hear it as a very, very cautious yes to citizens' suggestions.dk. I'm gonna ask you if that's how I'm gonna hear it. I have been in many debates on this, and I have also been debating with good social democrats, and again and again I have heard the argument that it is almost a threat to representative democracy and that we have plenty of access to politicians, etc. etc. I would just like to stress once again from the point of view of the alternative that we see it as a complement to representative democracy. This may help to contribute in ways that the other cannot, but that does not mean that we disagree with the forces of representative democracy. But I just need to ask, to be absolutely sure, whether I hear it as a tiny, cautious, "yes" by the Social Democrats,
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135124	We have not said in detail what we are doing when we see the final proposal. However, the rapporteur hears this as a praise for the specific issues that have been raised. Our rapporteur has certainly praised the fact that these were the themes that were addressed, and it was also Mrs Mette Abildgaard who said at the time that it was probably the ethical themes that would come in as some of the first ones, and she was right about that. When I am not 100 per cent convinced when my party is not 100 per cent convinced, it is because we actually really like the representative democracy that takes the broad responsibility for society as a whole and not just for specific cases or for niche cases, and that is the model that must be protected in any future models. We must also talk together about how to get people more involved in our parties, because if the parties become smaller and smaller, the democratic party system in Denmark has been undermined, and that is to the detriment of the whole population. We cannot settle for citizens' proposals, no matter how good they are, so we need to talk about the representative much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135232	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Karen J. Klint. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135239	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party we were also co-sponsors of the resolution which resulted in a bill that now makes us have citizens' proposals.dk today, and we in the Danish People's Party are pleased that at least a decision of principle has been made in the Executive Committee to make it permanent here. We can see, as others have done before, that there has been a great deal of interest in these citizens' proposals. I think it is important, then, that we hear the citizens and that we take that discussion in the Chamber, because the fact that we are then taking the discussion is also making this much more media coverage. I also think that those who have put forward these citizens' proposals have been very pleased with this, although perhaps this has not been the result of their being adopted here in the Folketing. It is good that the citizens have the opportunity to put some rather controversial discussions on the agenda, some little ethical discussions that we ourselves may not, as the Prime Minister also said, bring to squares, because we within the parties may have a slightly different view of what we think about it. That is why I think it is a good thing that we are then pushed a little bit to take these discussions here and also take them within the parties. You know that sometimes it's a process when you have some ethical guidelines or ways that make you end up somewhere. So I think that's really good. There are also some things about having this citizen involvement. In the Danish People's Party we certainly want more of it, and we want to have a talk about how we can do even more. I can mention that the Danish People's Party also introduced this with binding referendums on the city councils, which unfortunately we have not seen so much of yet, but it is a call for the urban roots to press for these votes to be carried out, because I believe that by involving citizens in politics we will also have a more lively debate, especially to hold on to many of the young people to participate in democracy. There are many young people today who do not see themselves as belonging to a political party, but see themselves taking part in a debate which deals with a number of subjects, which were also discussed before about the young people who stood and demonstrated out here in the palace square for the environment and everything else, because it concerns them, and then I think it is quite important to hold on to the young people, even though they may have only a few things they are passionate about, and not to say that if you are going to participate in democracy, you have to buy the whole package as a party. That is why I believe that we are maintaining young people to participate in democracy and to have these debates if we are allowed to do so, as this motion for a resolution makes possible, that these are individual matters that young people are passionate about and that they are allowed to have a vote through. So in the Danish People's Party we are pleased that we have this dialogue today, and we are happy to enter into several debates on how to make democracy even more alive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135554	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402135607	Let me start by thanking the Alternative for planning this query debate today. It is always good to discuss how we can ensure that we have a living and active democracy in this beautiful country, and that requires everything else equal, that there are plenty of people who engage in it on all sorts of different platforms. Now the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech what initiatives have been taken, for example. The people's hearings and, of course, the fundamental discussion about how we work in our respective parties on policy development. Nor do I believe that it is to lie to say that we would probably all parties, regardless of colour, wish that there were far more Members. I would say that I remember myself, when I joined the Party of the Left, I was not in the youth organisation before I actually thought it was a bit of a mouthful, because perhaps not one hundred percent loved the whole party programme; it might well be that there were just some elements that one might think could be better or changed. I think it is extremely important to be honest about this, because it might make even more people say that they are ready for the thing about joining a political party and they are supporters of perhaps 90 per cent. or 95%. the package, and then you can actually take that step. For that is at least where we are helping to make concrete policy developments. And then the question is this: How does the Prime Minister think that citizens' proposals have already affected or have the potential to influence the democratic commitment of citizens? Do the citizens' proposals do this alone by being a citizen's proposal? Yes, that is true; I believe they do. They affect to such an extent that you can go in and look at how many people have actually supported some given agendas. Does this mean that we must make citizens' proposals permanent and will the Left vote in favour of it? Nor have we seen the concrete proposal yet, but I find it difficult to imagine that we will be voting here in the second round to make it permanent. And it is from this discussion that it is extremely important for us in the Left to say that it does not require 50,000 signatures to have a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly; it requires very much that we be in contact with our elected representative, no matter what party color he or she has, in other words that we are in dialogue and in contact with them on certain important issues. That is why it is extremely important to say that it is not 50,000 signatures that are needed to get a debate going here. After all, it is precisely resolutions that we see developing and being adopted and becoming concrete legislation that is being implemented in society and moving it in the direction we would have liked. It was so much for the honesty of how we view the citizens' proposal system. Then I am pleased with the study presented by the Prime Minister in relation to what our view is of democracy, that is to say that it is also in a positive development and that politics is in fact far better than its reputation, and that we politicians are therefore much better than our reputation. I would like to strike a blow for that. It is therefore problematic that we can see other studies that say that confidence in such central institutions and confidence in politicians is something that we sometimes want to debate as something that, to put it mildly, is quivering. There is another initiative that I would really like to make a little publicity for here, and it is the Democracy Commission of the Danish Youth Council. After all, all this work is also the role of the political parties, but also generally in society, it is how we ensure the development of our democratic community, which, for me, is also very positive. And one last thing: in the near future, a great many committed democratically minded people will meet on the sunshine lake of Bornholm at the annual popular meeting, which, in my view at least and probably also in the eyes of many others, is a democratic victory. So in those words it is a recognition of what is being asked, i.e. whether it has affected the political commitment, and it is also an indication of how I imagine we will look at it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140028	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140035	Thank you. I would like to extend the debate slightly to include democracy in a slightly broader sense, namely democracy in the more economic sphere. Now I am mostly with business policy normally, but something I have sometimes wondered a little about in many debates with the Left is that the party that actually carries the roots of our entire cooperative movement is so little aware of the part of our business community that you could call our business-democratic companies: consumer associations, cooperatives, cooperatives. A large report has just been published from a think tank called Democratic Business, which maps the entire democratic business sector and also points to ways of supporting the business sector. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on how we can promote • and whether the Left wants to promote more inclusive and democratic forms of ownership in our business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140131	That is what we have to call a good question, and perhaps a little beyond what we have a question debate on and yet. But I simply do not know the report, which makes it a little difficult to comment on some recommendations. In general terms, however, I must say that the way one works with representatives and one works with the fact that one has board of trustees and various representatives that one would like to have to make good proposals on how the company should operate, and general meetings etc. are one democratic element. And I could imagine that Mr. Pelle Dragsted asks more specifically about other company types. Come up with the concrete proposals, because we have, of course, made many initiatives in relation to the shared economy and so on, so we are not locked in the way we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140223	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative, has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140228	That was an interesting question, sir. Pelle Dragsted left here, and I can at least say that the alternative has proposed a genuine code of cooperation so that we can have that debate down here in the Chamber. But I just have a question for the Left, a little like I put a question to the Social Democratic Party, where I heard such a slightly cautious yes. It's still a little out in the mist. I hear more of a clear 'no' from the Left, and I am genuinely surprised because one might well have some uncertainties when the scheme was put into effect there were many who were afraid that it would be a complete hat and spectacle proposal that we were going to discuss down here in the Chamber. But what we can actually see are some important social thematics that have received the support of these 50,000 people. These are some important debates we have had, so why say precisely: we do not agree with that? I mean, I have full respect for everything we are talking about, about representative democracy, but why say: no, we will not? What's in what the Left thinks is a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140336	I first reacted to the fact that I understood it as if Uffe Elbæk heard my speech as a cautious yes. I understood that that was the reference to the Socialist speech, because I made it quite clear that I did not see the specific proposal that we do not support. I would like to try to exemplify it with some of the citizens' proposals that have then been discussed in the Chamber. As far as the example of a climate law is concerned, it is indisputable that it had become part of a parliamentary debate no matter what. It's in the government's program. So it did not take a citizens' proposal and 50,000 signatures to get a climate bill and a climate discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly. Another example was the example of the possibility of being able to train several times, i.e. to take a double course. It had exactly been dealt with in the Chamber by ordinary means, you might say, in the form of legislative proposals etc., and then it was a repetition, because we had had the political debate. The result of the citizens' proposal was a copy of the political debate that had taken place. That is why, in this context, I consider the tool to be superfluous, specifically in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140500	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402140512	Thank you very much, President. Let me start by handing out the praise to be given to the alternative of being the party that originally put forward this proposal. It has been exciting with such a new path to participation in the now old political institution, as the Folketing and, in the broader sense, the people's regime is. And I also think, in fact, that the very process of its creation says something good about our democracy, namely that a small new party can enter and quite quickly put some fingerprints on the old institution. That is how a living people's government should function, that is to say, stick to what is working, but also be able to develop. I think that is a good story or a good adventure if we are to stay in the world of fairy tales, and perhaps also a good example of why it is important that we in Denmark have a low threshold, so that ideas arise and new currents can actually get a representation in our folk government, as the alternative managed to get it, and as it also seems that other parties, with which I saw in this case perhaps a little less agree, seem to have next time. It is true that what has been said is that this is only one of the many ways that citizens can influence the political process. In other words, there is not a day to go, I think, when we are not all in dialogue with people and organisations around the country. And in many cases, as has been said, a draft law or a resolution could have been tabled under the existing legislation, simply by convincing some Members of Parliament that it was a good idea. We are constantly under influence, and fortunately for that, because that is what we are here for; it is in this way to try to represent the people and their views to the best of our ability. Nevertheless, I think that the citizens' proposals have something in them that makes them particularly interesting, and that is that there is a formal right to have a proposal dealt with in the Folketing. So you have no formal right to have it adopted, but you have a formal right to have it dealt with. After all, there is a difference between formal influence and so less formal channels, because it is true what the Prime Minister also says that there are many ways and that you can hold hearings and other things, but the formal right is the special thing here. After all, we know that hearings can sometimes be held, and it is not an accusation against any particular body or advice that is more intended to give the impression that people are being involved than that they are perhaps actually being involved in the end. There may be processes up to adoption about something where you have a lot of citizens' meetings or what it is, and then you decide the same thing anyway in the end, so perhaps there has been more talk of decoration. And here, at least, there is an opportunity where people actually have a formal influence. That's one. The other one's the right one. After all, we have a challenge in our democracy: that monetary interests, which can afford to buy lobbyists and which have good networks, also, of course, have a greater ability to influence political parties than some of the less money-intensive groups or perhaps more vulnerable groups have. I like the citizens' proposals that there are equals, especially with the digital option that is: that all people can put this forward here and that if you get the support of 50,000, it has to be dealt with in here in the Folketing. I also think that some of the citizens' proposals we have dealt with show the importance of this, because there are proposals which would hardly have been dealt with here in the Folketing if it had not been for the sake of the citizens' billing system. This is, of course, first and foremost the proposal for an age limit for the genital mutilation of male children, which is, of course, an enormously controversial subject, which I believe shares the waters of all our parties and which, therefore, had never been dealt with in this Parliament, at least not within a foreseeable period, if it had not been a citizen's proposal. It did not fall out as I wanted it to, but it was dealt with and we were forced to act; we also had a long process like that, sir. Uffe Elbæk described, in our party with different stakeholders inside or different people who have strong views on it. But I actually think that now I can see that my time is running out, but I had a lot more, I wanted to say about everything we could do to develop our democracy, but it must be another good time that it has had a value, that the proposals that the rapporteur of the Left says might have been dealt with anyway or had just been dealt with have been put forward as a citizen's proposal because it has engaged a lot of people. This is true, for example. the proposal for a Climate Act. It may well be that the Alternative and Enhedslisten had put forward a proposal for a Climate Act, but had it created the same commitment and received the same attention? I do not think so, and that is why I think we should celebrate having this arrangement and I think we should stick to it. And then I'll have to hide all my gold grains about how we can develop democracy in other ways, for another good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141029	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative, has asked for a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141032	First of all, I would like to thank you for your kind words, and then I would actually like to give Mr. Pelle Dragsted opportunity to say something more about all the good ideas. I think the question that Enhedslisten had for the Social Democratic Party, or was it to the Left, about democratic companies, was interesting, and some of what we are discussing in the alternative is whether one can have a political democracy at all without having economic democracy. How do we strengthen democracy in companies, how do we strengthen democracy in the institutions, what are these models? Sir. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned earlier elite researchers' book on how we will have a completely different living democracy in Denmark. So I'm just gonna give Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted the opportunity to just unfold his thoughts in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141122	I have just been told by the President that I have one more minute. If I were to point out three things I would do, it should be so very, very quickly that, firstly, I would clear up some of the problems we have in our government. And here I am just mentioning public law and party support, and then I won't say anything else, because I don't want to spoil the mood, by the way. Secondly, I would look at the discussions with citizens' things, perhaps not exactly in the form that has been put forward, but discuss the possibilities for really more direct involvement. The third is the question of the area of business democracy. This is something that goes across parties, because we have a country that has a long tradition that ownership in our companies is actually spread out to a great many people. It is interesting that all these business-democratic companies have succeeded from the large cooperative companies, Arla and Danish Crown, and out to the very small employees-owned cooperatives, but also Coop and others, to create a common think tank. One may be rediscovering oneself a little and the importance of it, and that may not be so strange at a time when we see an extreme concentration of ownership in the big tech companies and other things. There is a newfound interest and it is not only in Denmark, it is around the world • how to spread ownership and thus also democracy out to much more in our business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141243	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141246	That's interesting to listen to, and that's why I'm gonna use the opportunity to unfold it a little bit more. I would just like to ask a very specific question, because Mr. Pelle Dragsted's rapporteur's speech that there are such skin-maneuvers with hearings I say in the goose-eyes of hearings where you do not listen to what is being said anyway. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to elaborate on this, because that is not the kind of consultation I am taking part in. I can easily listen to a lot of people too, I can disagree with them and it may also cause me not to move forward, but that is why it has been a hearing. Being heard is not necessarily the same as being right. So I would ask the rapporteur to present the picture that hearings should be a mockery. I hope that is not how the rapporteur sees it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141335	No, I do not think that is the case in general either, but I nevertheless think that there is a distinction between where you have the right, if I may say so, to be heard and where you actually have some formal opportunities to put something on the agenda, as in this case or for that matter, when something is put out for a referendum. It is, of course, a little in line with the Prime Minister's speech and the discussion we are having right now about the reform of health; in other words, the question of whether it is better with the regions, where some are elected, who then make some decisions, or whether some citizens' councils are better. I think this is a relevant discussion. Our primary objection to the government's proposal is not about this either. It is about us not believing that what is needed right now in health care is a major new structural reform, but rather some more colleagues out there. However, it is a discussion that is about • and it is not because I am going to shoot someone in the shoes that these people do not have the influence that there is a difference between the fact that there are some citizens' councils that have some right to object and that there is to be listened to, and that we actually have some structures where elected representatives take the decisions. This is, of course, the debate we are having right now on the reform of health, but without being an expert on it, because I am not the rapporteur in this area, I think it is an exciting discussion. Both have strengths in them, both where you have advice that does not have formal influence, but which needs to be listened to, and where you have a formal influence, but perhaps in a slightly more structured form. These are some of the institutions that Hal Koch among others. I'm working on it. What is democracy? Is it when we vote, or is it when we sit down and talk? I think both things are important. Apart from the fact that we may have many disagreements on the reform of health, it is a fairly fundamental discussion that it raises and also an important discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141506	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141518	Thank you. When I brought Foreningsdanmark into the picture with the Prime Minister, it was kind of because I was in that world for quite many years, and in that world I actually felt that I had considerable influence, which also reached into this house under changing governments. I have sometimes wondered whether I might actually have more influence than being in here, but I had considerable influence and didn't miss other entrances. That is why my reaction, when it came to the citizens' proposal, was: why have we actually come to the point that it is necessary or appropriate at all? I do not know whether we should also seek some of the answer in the involvement of political parties, because when I think back not only of voluntary association work, but also of party work, then there were good opportunities to influence by coming to an electoral meeting of the party association and meeting the minister who had been elected and who could take bids back and who could clarify questions, etc. That was the way things were going, and that's why you didn't think about whether there was a need for other things. It may well be that the membership figures in our party system contribute to the emergence of other needs. It can then be said that it is actually both regrettable and sad, and that perhaps we should do something about it. If, however, there is a great deal of good to say about it with citizens' proposals, it is because I see it from in here. Because it has actually meant, I think, that we listen better to each other. There may be an ingrained ability in this house that when proposals come from certain parties, you listen less than if it comes from some people you agree with more. When it is a citizen's proposal, it is more neutral, and the system here means that all rapporteurs are putting forward the proposal. That is why I really believe that we have had a little deeper debates; we have had a little better debates; we have listened a little more to each other. And that is perhaps one of the things we have needed to learn as politicians, that is to say to listen a little more to each other. It has actually developed so well that even the rapporteurs from the parties who chose to say no to the citizens' proposals have, of course, stood on this platform and spoke directly to listeners and praised them beyond the limits that they have come up with these proposals. So there must be something good in it. I do not know whether the parties whose rapporteurs have done so will vote differently to the next proposal that we now have to deal with when they are so enthusiastic that they will praise their constituents for having made the proposal. Perhaps we need to discuss this before we get to the end of the road. We have influenced both the debate and the politicians' ability to listen, and we have had other questions on the table, because we have. As the Prime Minister also mentioned, there are some questions which have a very long way to go, since there is disagreement in the parties before they find their place on our table in here, because who should take them up? So there are good reasons for maintaining this opportunity for democratic development. I just think that we should all really work to ensure that we get more of those who are now engaged to use the political parties to gain influence by joining in and using it as a tool, and not just by signing with many others. So we haven't changed our views on citizens' proposals. This is a good tool. We regret the fact that we have come there, that it is as necessary as it is, but we must then try to do something about it. But we may have learned to listen to each other, and it's worth the whole exercise. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141927	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. Perhaps it is a little bit in the citizens' proposal that the President can sometimes comment on what is being said: you should not go to the audience in the gallery, and Mr. Neither did Leif Mikkelsen, but he mentioned it as an example; it was just a clarification. It's a bad thing, yeah. Good! Thank you. It is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402141958	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the alternative for having raised this query debate. Speaking of the fact that we are one of the most open parliaments, I have had the pleasure of watching TV from the Folketing, and I think that many good things have been said in this debate today which is worth commenting on. When the original proposal to introduce this new opportunity for citizens' proposals came, we backed it up in the Conservative People's Party, and I think it came as a surprise to many that one of the old parties, who has also been watching over representative democracy and so on, did so. How could we actually support such an arrangement as this one? That question may still be asked by some. However, I do not think that the examples of the use made of the citizen's option in the past year have put our position to shame. On the contrary, we continue to believe in the Conservative People's Party that the citizens' proposals are a good tool, which we would also like to see remain part of the toolbox that is in our democracy. We are halfway through the trial period, and there have been five proposals, as several others have also mentioned, which have been dealt with in this Chamber. When I look at the five proposals and think a little bit about which of them I think are in line with the spirit of the citizens' proposals, there are a few that I would like to highlight. One can say, on a citizen's proposal such as the citizens' proposal on the education ceiling, that it is valuable and that it is also about a topic worth discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but there were also other parties who had raised precisely that debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber. So it can be said that it was not a new debate that we were forced to take in this Chamber, that is, a debate that we would not otherwise have had. It was, for example, with regard to the genital mutilation of boys, as several others before me have said. Both, sir. Uffe Elbæk and Mr. Pelle Dragsted has told about how this gave rise to some internal party processes, where you had to discuss this issue, which was difficult and difficult, and it did so in my own party. We looked very differently on this issue and we had, like other parties, I can understand, also various experts or stakeholders around it to make us smarter about it. Such a proposal as it would not find its way to the Parliamentary Chamber here, precisely because you are so divided in the parties. That is also a bit of what Mrs Karen J. Klint said, namely, the ethical issue, when it comes to ethical issues, issues of value such as religious issues, which may be difficult to accommodate within a party discipline, and there I really thought that the citizen's proposal showed its value. Because we were forced in the parties to take a position on something that was unpleasant, which was not easy, but which was difficult, which was conflicting, which was all sorts of things that made it difficult and which basically meant that we as parties would prefer to turn our heads a little, because it is difficult for us to accommodate in a reality where the media would like clear answers. Is the Conservative People's Party in favour of that yes or no? Period! There we had to give some more nuanced answers in that debate. Many parties had to do so, and I thought our people's government was very well dressed. Then there was the question of a climate law. There are several speakers in today's debate who said whether it would have reached the Assembly without a citizen's proposal. Yes, it may have been that at some point it would have done so, but it came with another force because it came as a citizen's proposal. It came without a partisan in the back of the neck, where it said the Enhedslisten or the Alternative, and I think we did so, that we had a different discussion of that proposal than we would otherwise have had. This may give rise to a little reflection: are we generally too quick to reject things in this House on the basis of who is making the proposal? I think that's a debate worth taking. Nevertheless, it had a strength that there was no name sign on the back of the proposal that came around a climate law. I also think, and there are others who have mentioned it today, that there is one point in that it should never seem like this is the only way to reach us politicians, the only way to shout us out, that is to find your NemID, go online and sign it. And we in the Parliamentary Chamber today know that this is not the case. We get lots of inquiries every day from people who have something in their hearts that we take the time to do and that we listen to, we come around the country and discuss with people. So, of course, it must never seem that it is the only way to be heard. But that's another way to be heard. I would just like to conclude by saying that it was wonderful to hear the Prime Minister speak up our democracy. We are the country of the European Union where democracy is the most satisfied, and we are more satisfied than we were 20 years ago. I must honestly admit that I did not know, but how delighted I was to hear that. I am running out of time now, but I just want to say that we in the Conservative People's Party are very pleased with this new opportunity that has come and that we continue to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402142459	Thank you. There's no comment, and then it's the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402142507	Thank you. Thank you for a short and focused debate. It is not that long since I myself helped open it, so I hope that my messages are clear yet, and that I do not need to spend too much time repeating them. However, as I mentioned, and as the Conservative rapporteur has just repeated, we are the country in the European Union where most people are satisfied with democracy, nine out of ten, and this is a strong starting point for engaging the people. There is a great deal of support for this too. I can well hear that, although two parties continue to question the perfection of this model, it enjoys broad support, and even where objections are raised in principle, there is a recognition that it has helped to generate some political discussion. So it's kind of fine. I think we have had some good examples of the fact that we are already in the process, and I am actually listening to this debate as well, after all, it is not a very conflicting discussion, and it is a good thing that there seems to be a consensus that the success criterion behind this is not that we should adopt citizens' proposals. It was actually a little my own concern at a start. So, what kind of signal do we send if we get the impression that you can go straight down to the Parliamentary Chamber, and then it never ends up in anything, so never gets your things adopted, and that it has, like, been taken down as if it is really just a fool's asshole? But I think that with the nuances that have been in the debate today, it is positive. Many people have pointed out that, for example: The citizens' proposal for a Climate Act has helped to put something into the process that was probably there anyway, but it has put a little more power on it. The citizens' proposal to ban the genital mutilation of boys has helped to promote an ethical debate in the parties, which was probably there anyway, but which then came to fill something more. That is where there is a value, and I think that is positive. It can't be alone. Everyone has also said so, and I am pleased with the examples of the Youth Climate Council and people's consultations on the European Union. And, yes, I understand that citizen involvement in health care is a little different, but I do mention it anyway. I still have the impression that we are an open parliament. I am not going to address anyone other than the Folketing, but we are an open parliament. You can see and hear what is happening here, and perhaps these citizens' proposals have in fact also drawn some attention into the Parliamentary Chamber, because then there are suddenly some people out there who have helped set the agenda, and then perhaps it is interesting to hear what is happening in the Folketing that day. There could be many other days when you might wish that there was also a focus on the Assembly Hall. But it's actually really positive. There's a big commitment out there, and I think it's important to say that we who are carried by this commitment each with our attitude and each with our outlook on life, but with it, we can call the holistic approach that lies in being a political movement rather than being in a single case organisation, of course, with the responsibility to maintain the breadth of the political conversation. I would just like to repeat what I said in my first speech, namely that I also believe that these consultations are a good tool. Could I not just to stress that point at the end and perhaps also to general encouragement highlight a result of the public hearing on the European Union, where, after this two-day hearing in Odense, the participants were asked what the hearing had meant for their opinions. Seven out of ten replied that their position on the European Union had become more nuanced. Nuances are good. Finally, of course, a decision has to be taken, but it is quite positive that seven out of ten say that they have been given some nuances on the basic point of view they made, whatever their basic point of view. So conversation promotes understanding, and democratic conversation benefits, and I think that is a good and positive tone to end today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402142924	Thank you. We need a final vote from the rapporteur on the questions, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402142935	I just want to say thank you for a good debate. At any rate, I myself am sincerely inspired by listening to the various contributions made by my colleagues. It sets thoughts in motion, so it has been a good debate in every way. That is why I actually propose to you and I myself will make a more formal proposal that once a year you have a broad debate on the state of democracy in Denmark. For there have already been some interesting observations from, for example, the United Kingdom. Mr. Pelle Dragsted, who suddenly opens up the debate and discusses democracy in a different way and includes other examples. I think that every time we have done it across party lines, it has certainly been very rewarding for me. Basically, there is indeed reason to talk this Parliament out when you can have this type of debate across the party. Now I am a little sad that our President has left. I hope she'll follow the screen out there, because it actually works very well that we're in this little circle. I don't know how you guys felt about it. It is a new system and it is such a physical example of how democracy and processes are constantly changing. So if I have not praised the President before, I would like to do so now. That is one example. Consultation with officials is another example. Something is going on all the time in this house, and God knows that you can only be happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402143110	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402143132	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402143146	First of all, I would like to say that, of course, the Social Democracy fully supports the OSCE and the three priorities set by the OSCE for 2019. It is conflict management, it is a safer future with a special focus on young people, climate and challenges with cybersecurity, and it is an effective multilateralism. It is the case that today, unfortunately, we see many threats and challenges to international cooperation and multilateralism, and those threats make it extra necessary for us to have strong international bodies in which Member States, through dialogue, negotiation and agreements and with a strong common voice, can address global challenges and reach consensus on peace, conflict prevention, development and reconstruction and human rights. The organization has its starting point in the great change that took place after the fall of the Wall and the dissolution of the balance of power between the superpowers. Everyone hoped that this would contribute to peace and security. Unfortunately, a need quickly emerged to create organisations that could be included in the more nuanced debates on strife and tension. The OSCE plays a role here as both a monitoring and a discussion forum, and the fact is that the greater the number of human relations, the greater the scope for taking nuances into account in building trust between countries. In recent years, the OSCE has seen increased political attention given to its role in dealing with the conflict in Ukraine and has thereby confirmed its importance and relevance to European security. It has thus also been clear during this year's sessions in the OSCE that it has a key role to play in dialogue and confidence building with Russia. The current tensions and criticisms, particularly in relation to Russia, highlight the relevance of the organisation and clearly illustrate the difficulties in cooperation in relation to consensus decisions. The Danish main priorities in the OSCE remain the Ukraine conflict and efforts to restore respect for our common principles and rules, that we work to strengthen human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the OSCE, as well as the implementation and strengthening of conventional arms control agreements within the OSCE's political-military cooperation. One might then ask today whether the work of the OSCE is an unconditional success. The answer must be that, no, unfortunately, you cannot just say that. After all, the most deterrent example of disrespect for each other is the situation in Ukraine, where the great Russia has settled itself and created a stalemate of lack of understanding between the countries of the region. However, the OSCE is doing a great deal of useful and relevant work in resolving the deadlock. But it is not a simple and straightforward task. Shall we give up? No, that's the answer. I can't let that happen. As people, we have to believe in the impact of dialogue and debate, regardless of the tendency to stand on our own views. Looking at the human dimension, Denmark is working to safeguard and strengthen the OSCE's work in the field of value policy. Here I am aware that two relatively new Council of Ministers decisions of December 2018 are precisely reasons for cautious optimism for 2019, as they have succeeded in reaching agreement on the security of journalists and the fight against violence against women. From the Social Democrats we support Denmark's active role in this area, and it is important that the Danish core priorities of the fight against torture, the promotion of democracy, the rights of people with disabilities and freedom of religion and belief are those we work for. It is expected that cyberdiscussion will also be an essential element of the OSCE, and it is both essential and right to put this on the agenda between the countries. Election observations are also essential, both for parliamentarians, for ministries and for the organisations' own people. This allows pressure to be exerted to respect the fundamental principles of democracy, which are not so strong in all places as they are with us. So let me conclude by saying that if the work on the OSCE is to be judged solely on achieved victories, perhaps the assessment will be somewhat depressing. But the truth is that efforts must also be assessed on the contribution to a continuing process aimed at promoting understanding through dialogue, and this is still a very, very important matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402143647	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. I just want to say that there are quite intense debates going on in the Parliamentary Chamber at the moment. But I think they're done now. We shall continue with the next rapporteur, Mr President. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402143706	Thank you for the floor, President. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement on cooperation in the OSCE, which also deals with cooperation in the Council of Europe and the Baltic Sea Council and Nordic defence cooperation. But we have several different rounds on it. So, in the first place, it is only the OSCE that is at stake here, as far as I am concerned. I would like to begin by saying that we in the Danish People's Party are pleased with the OSCE, but of course also with the Council of Europe, the Baltic Council and the other cooperation that we are in and the roles that they have. Unlike, for example, EU cooperation, these forums are, after all, cooperation between free and independent states, which meet and work together and have a dialogue with each other. There is no possibility of imposing anything on each other, but we can have a peaceful dialogue with each other, and we maintain that these are sovereign and independent states. In this way they are a good alternative or supplement to the European Union, just as the Nordic Council is also what was discussed in this Chamber last week. We in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that the OSCE has the function that it has in the conflict in eastern Ukraine, where the OSCE is indeed a facilitator of the dialogue between Ukraine on the one hand and Russia on the other. After all, this is a dialogue which, fortunately, led to the Minsk agreement being concluded a few years ago. The OSCE has then also been monitoring compliance with the Minsk Agreement. The OSCE is also active in other areas, such as: in the case of election observation, and unfortunately it has to be said that this is necessary in many countries. Not all countries have the same good, positive and democratic traditions as we have in Denmark. That is why in some places there is also a different view and other standards of how democratic elections should be conducted. That is why the OSCE has decided to participate in these election observation missions. In the same way, the OSCE is also monitoring that the rights of various minorities are respected. It is both that the rights of religious minorities, but also those of sexual minorities, are respected within the Member States. And, in the case of the OSCE Member States, yes, it goes as far as the United States and Canada throughout Europe and to the former Soviet republics and also Mongolia. So there are, of course, very different views within this framework on how to respect the rights of your fellow human beings. The Danish People's Party also welcomes the OSCE's participation in this. In these words, of course, we in the Danish People's Party take note of this statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402143946	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the left, and that's Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402144000	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a good but also a very thorough statement. In an international organisation dealing with human rights and freedoms, democracy, conflict prevention and other major issues, it has made it difficult for itself to work on the basis of consensus-based cooperation. But despite that, the OSCE makes a difference, among other things. through the 16 field missions working to promote security in the broadest sense, including: by spreading and protecting human rights, promoting anti-corruption and good governance, supporting the inclusion of minorities and increasing legal certainty, strengthening border control and cooperation in countries, and also by raising environmental standards in countries and supporting the safe storage and destruction of small arms and ammunition throughout the OSCE area. The conflict between Ukraine and Russia has been under discussion here in Parliament for several years during this statement. Unfortunately, it has not been possible for the OSCE to find a lasting peaceful solution, and we note that, despite numerous attempts to establish a ceasefire, an average of over 1,000 ceasefires per week are recorded. I look with the greatest concern at a Russia that is increasingly alienating itself from the values that have been committed to in its cooperation within the OSCE. Whether it is the implementation and strengthening of the conventional arms control agreements in the field of political and military cooperation, i.e. the so-called confidence-building measures, or whether it is an increase in Russian aggression against Ukraine, or an increase in Russian pressure on OSCE independent organisations such as the ODIHR, i.e. those responsible for observing electoral and other humanitarian issues on the basis of principles to which one has committed oneself, Russia leaves nothing behind. We have achieved a good deal within the OSCE, but much remains to be done. One thing is certain: the way forward is not to isolate oneself, but to increase so that we continue to cooperate. Finally, I would like to applaud the Minister for holding fast to the Danish core priorities this year, such as the fight against torture, the promotion of democracy, the rights of people with disabilities, freedom of religion and belief. These are all important agendas that must not be lost in the very good cooperation within the OSCE.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402144234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402144239	Well, thank you for the investigation from here, too. I regard OSCE cooperation as extremely important because it is precisely the only forum in which we actually have all 16 countries around the Baltic Sea together and represented, and it offers some very unique opportunities for discussing what needs to be done to stabilise our entire area. So the work that is going on there is very, very important. It is also some work that we, the Enhedslisten, give very high priority to election observation, etc. I hope that the government will continue to give this priority. I think it is vitally important that we put more resources into it at this stage and that it can also fill more, and I think that the priorities that have been laid down for the work, particularly with regard to human rights and the fight against torture, are a sensible priority. So thank you for your statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402144341	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402144350	Thank you for the floor. With this statement on the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Baltic Sea Council and the Nordic Defence and Emergency Cooperation, the Folketing is given a very welcome overview of the work of some forums which do not always hit the headlines of the newspapers, but which are very important. The OSCE is working on a number of different things. The Presidency has given priority to conflict management, the climate issue, cybersecurity and multilateralism, which, of course, is something I really think is very positive. Multilateralism is challenged. Many people leave it, either they say it out loud or they just do it out loud, but the principles behind multilateralism probably deserve someone to stand guard over them. One of the countries which, unfortunately, is moving away from multilateralism and is not making much of it is Russia, which is involved in the Ukraine conflict, and it has to be said that it is regrettable that we can take this statement, the previous statement and the statement before and say again: yes, this problem has simply not been resolved. There is a very, very fragile situation with numerous clashes despite attempts to create a ceasefire. After all, human rights and the human rights situation are not progressing either. It goes back, respect for human rights is decreasing in many of the OSCE Member States. It is of course an advantage that they are members because they can then be kept up to the terms of membership, but it does not seem to have a particularly educational effect, and there are also other countries where there are tensions in the form of arrested citizens and unresolved conflicts. It's important that we get these things out. It is important, although there are problems and challenges, that multilateral cooperation exists. Denmark is doing a great deal of work here, with which we can be very pleased, and that is why I naturally welcome the whole statement, but also this part which concerns the OSCE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402144640	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we go to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. We'll make it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402144658	Thank you very much. Our foreign rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, is prevented from being here today, so it is my pleasure to represent the alternative on the platform. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement. Denmark's international cooperation is very close to the alternative and thus to me, as the world is becoming increasingly smaller and climate change in particular is global and needs to be solved jointly with other countries. The Government's presentation with its priorities for 2019 is, in the opinion of the Alternative, very sensible. Far down the road we see the same opportunities and challenges in international cooperation, although there are, of course, differences. I am pleased to hear that the government in the important OSCE cooperation is working to keep EU countries united on the issue of conflict management in eastern Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea. Denmark alone is only a small player, but in cooperation with the European Union we will have much more influence if we can find common ground. As a small aside, I also regret the fact that recently in the Human Rights Council, the government chose to contribute to even more division in the European Union by failing to support important resolutions on Israel, for the sole reason that they were under a wrong item on the agenda. To be honest, it seems very short-sighted and incomprehensible, while Denmark as a small country is dependent both on common positions within the EU and on well-functioning international organisations. But now, that's not what we're discussing today, so I'll leave that alone. OSCE cooperation is about security and cooperation, and it makes sense to see security, whether military, political, economic, environmental or human, as the OSCE does to a large extent. Denmark does and should of course support this, as the military aspect is a very small and short-term part of the overall picture. The long-term perspective of security is basically about people and about guaranteeing them rights and living conditions, and we do best to ensure that the societies in which people live are democratic constitutional states in a sustainable world and on a planet that has a sustainable nature. The OSCE stands for important cooperation, especially when it comes to democracy and the rule of law, where electoral missions are a good example, because in this way the OSCE helps to take the temperature of democracy in the Member States, and that gives us a picture of where we need to take action, because unfortunately there is a great deal that can be much better in a number of countries. In this context, I am pleased to hear that the government is focusing on continuing to put pressure on Turkey with the participation of NGOs and on Russia via the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. In the alternative, of course, we are also very, very concerned about the security situation of many people in the OSCE Member States, including Turkey, Tajikistan and, of course, Chechnya and Russia at all. To be who you are and to love who you love can and must never become a crime or a security risk, and therefore I am very pleased to read in the statement that the government has taken a great deal of responsibility and leadership in this area, and I would, of course, urge the government to continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402145059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402145110	Thanks to the government for the statement. Like the other rapporteurs, I have little more to say than that I think that the priorities put by the government in these councils seem reasonable, and I also welcome the fact that we are looking for common EU ground in these fora, and I feel a bit like the previous rapporteur, namely that I would like to see common EU ground being sought in other areas, for example. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: But leave it alone. When we look at the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Baltic Sea Council and also the Nordic Defence and Emergency Cooperation, we see that there is an elephant in space that has also been mentioned by several people, and it is Russia that plays a crucial role in the status of all four cooperation organisations: in the OSCE it is the Ukraine conflict and the management of it that is the absolute largest area right now; in the Council of Europe we all know that there are difficult discussions about Russia's continued membership of the Council and payment to the Council; after all, the Baltic Sea Council is so influenced by Russia's position and position and by the actions of the past years; and finally, there is the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation, which also indirectly has a lot to do with Russia. That's why, of course, it gives us reason to ask ourselves how things are going with dealing with this elephant in these four organizations. And it must be said that this is, after all, a very cautious position that has been chosen, in all four places, and perhaps it is actually very sensible. I do not know how conscious that is, but it can be said that where the European Union has taken on the role of having a firm hand with Russia in terms of sanctions targeted as well as general in relation to Ukraine and several other things that Russia has committed itself to, these four organisations, in their own way, have also tried to have an outstretched hand, not only for the Russian regime, but also for the Russian people. On the radical side, we think it is quite reasonable to have such a division of labour, in other words that there is both a firm hand and an outstretched hand. Perhaps that division of labour ought to be somewhat refined, perhaps it should be left to the European Union to be the one that has a firm hand with Russia, because I think that is absolutely necessary with Russia, and then perhaps to use some of the forums we are discussing today to have a more proactive approach, if you like, more exchanges of students with young Russian students, more involvement in civil society development, trade relations, simply because there is also a need to push some of the more progressive forces in Russian society, which is not part of Putin's regime, but which, on the contrary, has a great desire to change things from below. It was a thought for the Foreign Minister, because I think that some of these organisations could also use a little more focus, a little more awareness of what their role is in the rather complex interaction we have with Russia today. But apart from that, we have no further comments on the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402145435	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402145449	Thank you, too, to the government from here for the statement. In this area there is a broad consensus here in the Folketing that participation in these multilateral organisations is so important. Denmark's foreign policy is entirely dependent on the alliances we can build in different places, and there is in fact one of the most important. It is not an organisation that is discussed so much in public. It is the more the European Union; it is NATO; it is the United Nations. However, the OSCE plays a very, very important role in various forms of conflict reduction, various actions, often of a very low practical nature, in creating a more stable Europe. And we should be very happy that we have. And that is why I think it is important that we are actively involved in the OSCE and that the positive approach to the OSCE expressed by the government in this statement is important. I think in and out that Mr. Martin Lidegaard makes some good points about Russia when he says that on the one hand we have to have a firm hand and on the other hand we also have to stretch our hand in relation to Russia. Various organisations can be used for this, and perhaps the OSCE can be used very much as the organisation that can bring Russia into cooperation. I believe that this is an important approach to Russia, because there is often, as it were, some kind of ambiguity about what we want to do with Russia. Sometimes also when you hear people from the governing parties you have to understand that Russia is almost our biggest enemy; the country is almost a direct enemy of Denmark. At other times you can see that we need to recognise that Russia is a great European country, with which we need to be able to live wisely in what we do, for example in relation to the Arctic. The duality that is actually in relation to Russia may not be so unnatural, because both are true: we must be careful with Russia, but we must also work with Russia. And that's where I think, sir. Martin Lidegaard made some very wise observations that you can play on different horses in this context and use for example. The OSCE is very active and very proactive in this context too in terms of popular cooperation and in terms of reducing tensions to a lower level. With regard to Ukraine, I would just like to add that there are currently presidential elections in Ukraine, and I cannot just stand here and say how attractive I think the two main candidates are. On this comedian who is running, I can say that I do not know how alternative he is, but at least I know that the President-in-Office of the Council is in no way worthy of success. And that means that Ukraine is also, if anything, a dysfunctional system. We see many dysfunctional systems at the moment • If we look to London at the moment, we can see one over there. But Ukraine is indeed also dysfunctional, and that is also part of the explanation for the problems that exist in Ukraine. It's not that simple. However, I fully agree that it is important that the OSCE is there; it is important that the OSCE can play a role by softening up the conflicts that are also there. So there are quite positive statements from us in relation to this report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402145854	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402145901	Thanks to the government for the statement. It is important that Denmark supports the organisations and international communities that underpin cooperation and dialogue between the countries. Especially when it comes to security policy, it is in Danish interest that we support the international organisations in which we are engaged. The OSCE is an important tool for security and stability, and, in particular, in the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, the OSCE ensures that the international community is present in the conflict and that there are temporary ceasefires. We believe that Denmark should continue to focus on the work on a ceasefire where the Russians are hard to get to work together. With the Copenhagen Declaration, we have made the European human rights system more up-to-date and effective. We think that's really fine. Because human rights have not fallen from the sky. That is something we must also be able to debate. To dare to talk about them is also important, because we must be able to discuss everything. The agreement brings European human rights closer to the more than 800 million people associated with the system. We can be proud of this in Denmark, and it shows that we can influence the state of things if the will is present also internationally. When it comes to the Baltic Council, Denmark also has a role to play, and here it is also about making the council more up-to-date, so it also has relevance in the future. When we take over the Presidency this summer, we must take the lead in modernising the Council. Denmark has a role to play in our international engagements, which is why it is important that Danish foreign policy becomes part of the national political debate. Because we can actually move something. That is why we very much welcome today's debate on the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402150116	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402150124	Thank you for that, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments and for their interest in the work of the OSCE. The debate today seems to me to have confirmed that the Danish Parliament has a great interest in supporting Denmark's efforts in the organisation. The government considers the OSCE to be an indispensable platform for promoting dialogue and cooperation on European security, a platform that is an integral part of a rule-based international order. However, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine marks the work of the OSCE. Since Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea five years ago, the OSCE has engaged in Ukraine, both at the negotiating table and in the trilateral contact group and in the field through the Special Monitoring Mission, the SMM. The SMM mission is the largest international presence in Ukraine and is the eyes and ears of the international community in relation to the conflict. This is an important effort and it helps to ensure that the conflict does not escalate further. The OSCE is also an important platform for human rights dialogue. When human rights come under pressure, as we have seen in recent years in Turkey and Russia, for example, this will be addressed in the OSCE. Countries that do not comply with their international obligations on human rights are reminded that they are on the wrong track. The OSCE is also a watchdog in connection with the holding of elections in OSCE countries through election observation missions. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly contributes both with election observers and directs election observations. I would therefore like to take this opportunity this year to thank the Danish OSCE parliamentarians for this important work. Denmark also attaches importance to work in the field of arms control in the OSCE. It is important that arms control agreements already concluded are implemented and strengthened. Because it is through the arms control agreements that we can promote military transparency and reduce tension so that we ultimately avoid conflicts. Unfortunately, we also have to note that the work has been stalled and, in several cases, direct reverse due to a lack of Russian willingness to compromise. The consensus principle of the OSCE means that decisions taken are formally supported by the 57 Member States of the Organisation, which gives them strong legitimacy, but the principle of consensus also means that the way to reach decisions can be long and difficult. But thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402150401	Thank you to the Secretary of State. No brief remarks. Then we move on to the debate on the Council of Europe. First, it's sir. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402150425	This year, it is 70 years since the Council of Europe was formed with Denmark as one of the 12 original founders, and I think that this anniversary is also a fine occasion, given that we have the debate in this Chamber, to remember what is actually the reason for, and of course also the purpose of, the work of the Council of Europe. The background was, of course, World War II and the strong desire of many countries, of course, to ensure peace and future peaceful development in Europe, but also to ensure that the European countries subsequently, in response to the experiences of fascism and communism and Nazism, protected and developed the absolutely fundamental principles on which modern democratic countries are also based today: democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. The basis was then built up step by step in subsequent years in mutual cooperation between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, among other things. in the form of a number of important conventions. Of course, the European Convention on Human Rights, which came into force in 1953 and was subsequently followed up with the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, but other important conventions could also be mentioned: the 1961 Social Charter and, more recently, the 2005 Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings and the 2011 Convention against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Unfortunately, however, during the anniversary year we must also note that the foundations of the Council of Europe and the three important values and principles of democracy in the organisation have come under pressure. In these years we are experiencing a more warlike and aggressive Russia; we are seeing a Turkey which, although fortunately the just past municipal elections point in a different direction, under Erdogan has turned more and more away from democracy and human rights; the same is true in Azerbaijan. However, in countries such as Poland and Hungary, too, we are unfortunately seeing trends in political violations of democratic rights and the media and freedom of expression. Specifically, Russia's totally unacceptable attack on Ukraine has meant that the Parliamentary Assembly has decided to remove the Russian delegation's right to vote in Parliament, and Turkey has again been put under full monitoring in connection with the massive interventions it has made in relation to human rights and freedom of the media. In my view, measures and sanctions are essential when measuring developments in the two countries against the basis on which they have both signed up as Member States of the Council of Europe. But both countries then try, through what I would call simple extortion, by withholding or cutting their quota contributions to the Council of Europe, to force the Council of Europe to drop criticism and pressure on countries. Now it is most topical with Russia, which is unfortunately on a course on its way out of the Council of Europe, perhaps even this year. It is of course not good, and during its presidency last year Denmark contributed, as Finland is doing now, to trying to find a solution. It is also important that the many millions of Russian citizens do not lose the right to have their many and justified cases tried by the Court of Human Rights; but, on the other hand, we cannot accept Russia's attacking belligerently and totally unacceptable on the lands of other Member States. This must have a consequence, and that is why we must all stand firm that the Council of Europe cannot be blackmailed. Denmark must therefore also maintain a clear and critical line towards the course in both Russia, Turkey and Azerbaijan. When Denmark had the Presidency, we focused on the work of the Court of Human Rights ■ a very good process, which is also being followed up by subsequent presidencies now. It was also good that Denmark addressed the efforts for more equality and among others. the relationship of rainbow families in Europe. Now we are facing the Council of Europe having a new Secretary-General, and there it will be very important for Denmark to support a Secretary-General who has the format and experience to deal with the challenges facing the Council of Europe and, above all, for Denmark to play a strong and progressive and proactive role in ensuring the important defence of democracy, human rights and law, which the Council of Europe represents, that it will not be undermined in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402150927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402150943	Thank you, President. As I did during the previous round of rapporteurs on the OSCE, I would also like to say here that we in the Danish People's Party would like to thank the Minister for the statement on the work of the Council of Europe. In the Danish People's Party we appreciate the work of the Council of Europe and the functioning of the Council of Europe, precisely as a forum for the various European countries, where we can meet as free and independent states and discuss different matters. Unfortunately, I have not had the pleasure of first-hand experience of the work of the Council of Europe myself, but I have been told by the representatives of the Danish People's Party on the Council that, as with the OSCE, much of the attention on the work of the Council of Europe was devoted to Russia and Russia's behaviour in relation to both Crimea and Ukraine in general, as well as to the Baltic neighbouring countries and Poland. After all, it cannot be ruled out that Russia must be on its way to leaving the Council of Europe, in that Russia has not paid its contribution, the financial contribution, which then affects the Council of Europe's economy quite considerably. That is why the Council of Europe's budget has made substantial savings. Furthermore, we would also like to point out that there has also been a need to have increased attention given to the situation in Turkey, where the political majority and the President who is there have, of course, a somewhat alternative view of human rights and civil rights in general, which goes against what the standard is normally within the borders of the Member States of the Council of Europe. But in those words I shall sign the statement and say that we in the Danish People's Party take note of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151140	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151148	Thank you. There is no doubt that we in the Left also thank the Foreign Minister for his statement. It is, after all, a rather tense situation that we are in in the Council of Europe, among other things. because we have a very, very large budgetary problem, and it has all come from the fact that we have a Russia that is one hundred per cent indifferent to what is similar to rules. We have a Russia that is 100% indifferent to the sanctions that a massive majority of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has actually decided, namely that one Member State, namely Russia, cannot, of course, allow itself to go in and annex part of another Member State, namely Ukraine. What has Russia's answer been to that? It has simply been to shake our heads and try to tell us that 70 years ago they helped us against Nazism and everything else, and then they have said that they must of course have a special status and should not therefore be affected by the sanctions we have adopted in the Council of Europe. They pull out the money and don't show up because they're insulted. Then there are some in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe who start to shake their pants and say: Well, then maybe we should roll out the red carpet and maybe pat them a little on the shoulder and ask if they can't come back if we do yours or that. I strongly disagree with that approach, because if we start to falter in some of what should be a core value in the Council of Europe, namely respect for rules and laws, why do we have the Council of Europe? That is why we must be more vigilant about those values than ever before, even when it is beginning to hurt in the economic area as it is doing now. It should then have been taken seriously by the Council of Europe administration and then simply said: okay, then we must save where it is necessary to save. One of the ways in which it could be done was perhaps to make the Council of Europe what the Council of Europe really is: an organisation that is fighting for human rights and has a very good court, and then stop everything else that is going on in the Council of Europe. All of us who have participated in a parliamentary assembly week in the Council of Europe have seen those debates that make the European Parliament's debates look like children's games. Anything other than that which is the whole basis of the Council of Europe's foundation is being discussed. That is why I believe that we have to go back to the base, and the Liberal Group has fought very, very hard for it to be the thinking that needs to be done. Unfortunately, we have not yet come to the end of it. I still hope that the clear position of the Liberal Group will be that which the Socialist Group and some of the other groups may also be able to follow up. Now there is more going on than that with Russia, even though it takes up a great deal. Several of the rapporteurs have mentioned Turkey, and I am glad, like the other rapporteurs, that it seems that there is room for parties other than the AKP. I think we saw that there were porridges and it is really exciting in relation to the local elections in Turkey, even though there are some very negative tendencies in the AKP and not least in Erdogan himself to crack down on the free media and not give room to the democracy that should be at the heart of a European country and not least a country in the Council of Europe. So I think it looks exciting, but no matter what, Turkey is one of the countries we have to keep under sharp observation, because it is still the case that Turkey has imprisoned Members of Parliament, and that is, of course, something that should be the worst thing you can do at all. Then, of course, we also have another country under increased observation, and that is Azerbaijan. I think that at some point we have to say this and not anymore. If Azerbaijan is even more indifferent to the recommendations and recommendations and demands of the Council of Europe, it must of course also have consequences, as it did for Russia, and there I think we will soon be. So this is an exciting time, and it is also an important time for the Council of Europe, because if we still want a functional Council of Europe, then it is now that we have to make the right decisions. I would like to conclude by thanking the rest of the delegation, as chairman of the delegation, for their excellent cooperation and, above all, for their excellent cooperation with the Danish delegation and the ambassador down there in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151637	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151641	Thank you. As Vice-President of the Danish delegation, I fully agree with the thanks for the cooperation in the delegation and with the representation. What I want to ask the rapporteur of the Left is, of course, about whether a solution can be found for the Russians to come back. I fully agree that there must be consistency in doing what Russia does, but I should just like to hear whether it is not the case that the rapporteur of the Left also supports the fact that it will be established that if the Russians come back to the Parliamentary Assembly, where they do not have the right to vote in general resolutions and in general political work, they will continue to have the right to vote in relation to selecting judges for the Court of Human Rights, to elect the Commissioner for Human Rights and to elect the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151735	I support the compromise if we are to call it that, but the problem is that Russia does not. In other words, I myself took part in some of the meetings as chairman of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, and when you meet with the dear Russian representatives, and they are rather high-ranking people, they sit and say: thank you, we want more. That is why I am still very, very sceptical about whether the so-called compromise will also become a reality. But if it does and I am told that I have to be optimistic, so I am trying to be a supporter of that, of course, because on the one hand we can still have away, we have to say the sanctions that are pushing Russia, while on the other hand, of course, there are, we have to say some fundamental rights that a Member State must of course have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151817	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151819	Yes, because I believe that we agree that this is a challenge not so much, I think, as far as the leaders in Russia are concerned, because we should not take special account of them, but of the citizens, who will then no longer be able to access the Court of Human Rights. I would just like to make it clear, because the rapporteur was now very tough in his rhetoric about Russia, that the rapporteur, like myself, has actually supported the compromise I took part in the meetings which give the Russian delegation some opportunities, some rightful opportunities, even if they do not have the right to vote on the ordinary political issues before, as it were, there has been a change in their relationship with the annexation of Crimea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151904	Well, I support the compromise, but at the same time I support the fact that we are drawing a very, very clear line in the sand that this and no longer; that we are not giving in to the ordinary sanctions that have also been imposed on Russia. And then it is perhaps my very naïve hope that Russia will begin to take the Council of Europe's recommendations and resolutions just a little more seriously than Russia has done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151929	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402151942	Thank you. After all, I think that the work of the Council of Europe is insanely important in relation to the whole foundation of human rights and the work of legal certainty in Europe. It is really, really crucial that we give priority to this work. That is why, of course, I am glad to see that this is what the government's statement says here, but I have to say that I think I miss the priority given to the Council of Europe every day in my work. I simply do not think enough emphasis is being placed on our work there. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If we read the government's foreign and security policy strategy, the Council of Europe is only mentioned in a list on one line. I think we need to have a discussion on whether Denmark should not play a part in the discussion on whether we should both raise voluntary contributions and also look at whether other countries can contribute more to the work of the Council of Europe, because right now we are in a situation where Russia has pulled, what to say, their economy out of the equation, makes the Council of Europe simply going completely rabundus. In other words, it is vitally important that we ensure that some of the financial resources are given priority for that work too, otherwise we will very soon no longer have the Council of Europe. I also think that when you look at how it is done, for example. looks at how many Danes work and work in the work of the Council of Europe, that it is also difficult for us to meet our quota of officials to participate. When you look at how we are actively involved in the various debates that are, I think that the work could be done much more dedicated, I have to say, and I think it is necessary. That is why I would also like to hear from the government whether the Minister will say a little more about how to actively prioritise this work with the Council of Europe in the very, very acute situation we are in. I would like to hear about this, if you could not actually look at increasing the Danish contributions to the Council of Europe, and I would also like to hear more concretely how Denmark has worked both in relation to the criticism of Turkey and Azerbaijan and so on in relation to the criticism that Russia has drawn the funding. Could the government see that the work here in the Council of Europe could actually have a much more central place in our day-to-day policy? I would like it to be so, so that we could really help to improve the work on human rights in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152228	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152233	Thank you. And not least thank you to the Enhedslisten, because I share, we must say the fear that exists for the economy down there, and I also tried to address that. But one of the things I was trying to say was that the Council of Europe could try to look inwards and look at what tasks they are dealing with right now. Because I also believe that Mrs Flyvholm agrees that right now, in the Council of Europe, there are a great many things that could be dealt with by the European Parliament and other bodies, for example. cultural issues. Does Mrs Eva Flyvholm also agree with any of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152303	Well, thank you for the rapporteur's question. Actually, I was just thinking about it during your comment. In other words, one can of course always think about how things should work in a smarter way, but as a starting point I actually see it as an advantage that the Council of Europe deals with a slightly wider range of things. We saw, for example, that at the beginning of the economic crisis and the EU's reduction policy on the part of the Council of Europe, a report was drawn up, which included: My colleague Nikolaj Villumsen was the rapporteur. A report was simply drawn up which highlighted the consequences for ordinary people's conditions, i.e. poverty, etc. in Europe, of this reduction policy, which I actually thought was a very important contribution to the discussion on, for example. economic human rights. So I think that very important work is being done, which I would be very worried about just cutting out. I think it would be better for us to give priority to some more knots; I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152400	Then we thank Mrs Eva Flyvholm. And we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152411	Thank you. The Council of Europe is about to have a new Secretary-General here in June, and it is to be hoped that the person you end up finding will be a powerful person, because even if the Council celebrates its birthday, you will have to say that there are also some challenges. Unfortunately, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, there are several Member States which are practically showing the way to restrict human rights. After all, it was a very positive result of the Danish Presidency that we obtained the Copenhagen Declaration, because the Council of Europe has also been strongly challenged in terms of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Court of Human Rights in terms of legitimacy. We cannot have that; it is very, very important that the European Convention on Human Rights should be seen as legitimate, and there is the Copenhagen Declaration and the work behind it, important in terms of showing a way forward. I believe that the difficulties must be dealt with and that legitimacy can be saved, but it is clear that this is a matter of concern. What is at stake, and what is at stake for the Danish Presidency, is the question, with the words of Danish lawyer Anders Henriksen, of future-proof human rights conventions. After all, it will be an extremely important task for the current Presidency and the new Secretary-General to look at it. So if I get the chance, I look very much forward to discussing next year's statement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402152625	Thank you, and thank you, Minister, for your statement. The Council of Europe, which has all European States as members, is based on key principles of the promotion of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. The Council has a parliamentary assembly which meets four times a year in Strasbourg. I say this to the satisfaction of those who sit and follow the debate on their television screens. Unfortunately, not all Member States are complying with these principles and it has filled a great deal in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. We have dealt on several occasions, as the other rapporteurs have already said, and also in the report with Turkey, which has been fully monitored because of serious human rights violations and attacks on the Kurdish minority. Ukraine and Azerbaijan have also been on the agenda, as mentioned, and Russia's difficult relationship with the Council of Europe has marked the debates and will continue to influence the work of the organisation. Unfortunately, there is no immediate solution to this. Unfortunately, there has also been corruption within the Council of Europe. As far as we are concerned, the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe has, of course, filled a great deal, not least the launch of the Copenhagen Declaration. It is rather misleading, though not surprising, that the statement mentions the Copenhagen Declaration as an important result for the Danish Presidency. The truth is that with its first draft of the declaration, which fortunately was heavily edited by the other Member States, the government completely misunderstood its visiting time in the Council of Europe and tried to use one of our most important international cooperation to conduct Danish domestic policy. Denmark's internationally strongly criticised national priority was, in the Copenhagen Declaration, the attempt to push the balance between the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and their compliance by the nation states to the advantage of the nation states. The European Court of Human Rights shall ensure that Member States comply with their obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. The Court of Justice shall be regarded as the crown jewel of the Council of Europe's activities for the protection and promotion of human rights. At international level, the Court is unique in allowing citizens of the Member States to file a complaint against their own authorities before the Court. In a chronicle in Altinget, former ambassador to the Council of Europe Claus von Barnekow says that the government could have played an active and agenda-setting role as President of the Council of Europe, but unfortunately the potential did not materialise, and now the task is to restore Denmark's reputation. Denmark's attempt to undermine the court was said to have the consequence that the Secretary-General, in his unprescribed speech to the ministerial meeting, skipped the outgoing Danish Presidency and went directly to next year's ministerial meeting in Helsinki, where the Council of Europe is 70 years old. Fortunately, the final version of the Copenhagen Declaration upsets the government's erroneous claim that the European Court of Human Rights has been instrumental in preventing the expulsion of seriously criminal foreigners. If this claim should be repeated, then it is against better knowledge. The Government's first draft of the Copenhagen Declaration met with great amazement among the colleagues of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because at that time Denmark was still known as a nation that never calls into question the human rights enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. It was absolutely subversive of confidence in Denmark as a serious champion of international cooperation and respect for human rights and, as I said, was not at all the success that the government has tried to make the Copenhagen Declaration into. Instead, we fortunately had a final declaration completely cleared of all the Danish domestic political hoops that the government laid from country to country. Despite the Danish Government, the members of the Council of Europe chose to adopt a declaration which basically supports the good human rights system we have in Europe. It is a system in which the Court of Human Rights is at its top, and that is something that has not been shaken in the declaration. We are, of course, very pleased about this in the alternative, and I hope that the government has also learned something from the matter, although this is not at all apparent from the Minister's statement. It is now quite frankly devoid of self-insight. Thank you very much, however, to all the colleagues, to the secretariat and to the ambassador.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153124	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153146	Now the SF is not in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so I am not going to divert the Folketing with comments on how the work has worked and how the secretariat has worked, because I have no knowledge of that. But I see it a little from the outside and, like others, we fully agree that the Council of Europe, as an all-European cooperation, is extremely important. It is, of course, a problem when Russia does not want to pay, but I think it is very important that we stick to Russia in the work of the Council of Europe, because it is important to be able to criticise Russia's human rights violations in relation to civil society in Russia, which is of course very, very cramped. For them, it is important to be able to refer to criticism from the Council of Europe, so in this context it plays a role, and similarly in relation to Turkey, where there are also serious violations of human rights. We can hope it will be better, because, like other countries, Turkey is not a static political society. There is also a development there, as was shown in the local elections last Sunday. However, it is important that there are bodies outside that can deliver criticism when necessary. So in this way it is a very, very important cooperation in which Denmark must, of course, continue to participate actively, including at the parliamentary level. Just one comment on the so-called Copenhagen Declaration on Human Rights. I agree with what is stated here in the statement, but I also agree with Mrs Sandbæk's description that the government was simply squirted in this matter. After all, the government had great ambitions that the whole European human rights system should now be abolished. This was what the Danish People's Party demanded and which parts of the government also made the Minister of Integration very active. There it had been expected that this discussion could be used to change Danish legislation in this area. Fortunately, it did not succeed, so what we came up with is quite, very good. We are satisfied with that too. So, on the whole, we do not have much further comment on this statement. It is an excellent description of how it works and how it should continue to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153434	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153437	Thank you. I have full respect for the fact that sir... Holger K. Nielsen and the Socialist People's Party are not part of the delegation in the Council of Europe, but what I want to ask is what it takes to make Russia participate or not. Because the situation is that Russia has not been thrown out, but has gone because they are angry at a sanction imposed by the Parliamentary Assembly. So the question is: what should we give Russia? In other words, if the so-called compromise is not enough, where they can vote on personal choice, but that they also want more, i.e. that the other sanctions should be removed, will the SF also recommend that we do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153515	Well, as I have understood that compromise, that sounds very reasonable, and I think we should stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153525	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153526	The problem is that Russia has said no to the compromise, which means that right now Russia wants more. That is why my question is this: can it not be too much for us to lure them back, so to speak, by saying that there are no sanctions? Because that is really what Russia is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153541	I fully agree with that. I mean, we can't just give in to pressure from Russia. I believe that we must make a real attempt to get them back, but if they do not want to go to the trough, they will not go to the trough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153555	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. And then it's sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402153622	Thank you. I have not been involved in any European Council work either, but I would nevertheless like to make a few comments. The meeting of the Nordic Council in Oslo dealt, inter alia, with: The theme of democracy under pressure and it is a very relevant theme in these times, not least here in Europe. In the report on selected international organisations, I read among other things. on the major challenges facing the Council of Europe, which has a bearing on the conflict between Europe and Russia over Crimea, on the one hand, and on the positions of Russia, Turkey and Azerbaijan on human rights and the rule of law, on the other hand, but also on the other hand, because institutions within the EU have taken over parts of the Council of Europe's functions. Hopefully, this does not mean that support for the European Court of Human Rights is declining, because the UN resolution on fundamental human rights was one of the great civilised achievements of our time, and nobody expected to hear anyone in Europe speak human rights down again. Another major step forward for our civilisation was the UN resolution on the right of peoples to self-determination or the right of self-determination. Originally it was launched 100 years ago by Wilson and Lenin and formed among others. the basis for the return of South Jutland to the Danish Empire. But the right to self-determination is also under pressure. Spain has gone so far as to put it on the dock. This happened when civil society leaders Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez together with nine politicians in January after more than a year in prison were taken to the Supreme Court in Madrid. Although they are sworn pacifists and democrats, they are in the dock in the criminal department of the Spanish Supreme Court for preparing and conducting a democratic referendum on the right of Catalonia to self-determination. The citizens were just asked whether they wanted Catalonia to be established as an independent country. The Spanish state considered the referendum illegal and void and, on the day of the elections, sent major forces of the federal police against the polling stations in order to violently and forcefully close the polling stations and confiscate the votes cast. In fact, this wasn't about law, and it wasn't about crime. It was about politics. For the Spanish State, the reason for the unity of Spain applies above all, and they believe that the Spanish constitution also legitimises this. The Catalans, for their part, want the right to self-determination to be respected, and they assumed that perhaps something naive would mean that the European Union and European democracies would support UN resolutions on the right to self-determination. It should, of course, be resolved through dialogue or by the constitutional court, but emotions are so strong in this confrontation that it costs too much in number to go the way of dialogue. In May 2015, the Danish Parliament also believed that the path of dialogue was the right one to go, but the government no longer thinks so. Instead, along with other European countries, a deaf, blind and mute political line has been taken, ignoring violations of fundamental democratic rights and the rule of law. I think it is disgraceful to hear that there is a taboo on the right of self-determination in Europe, because many of the same European countries have just been recognised their status on the basis of the same right of self-determination, among other things. the three Baltic countries which form the basis for Baltic cooperation. In my optics, the right of self-determination is sacred, just as fundamental human rights and democratic rights are. And are there any countries that should take the lead in defending democratic values under pressure, among others. through the Council of Europe, it is precisely the Nordic countries, and not least Denmark, that claim to respect a vote on independence in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland when it takes place, but refuse to recognise the self-determination of the two countries as a principle of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154119	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. There are no brief comments, so we say thank you, and then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154132	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your contributions during the debate. They confirm the great political interest in the Council of Europe which is present these years, and that is welcome, because it is an important multilateral organisation that we must safeguard at a time when multilateralism is under pressure. Almost a year after Denmark passed on the baton as chairman of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, it is good to see that the Danish Presidency has made a impression that we can be proud of. 2019 will be a crucial year for the Council of Europe. A number of important decisions need to be taken in the future which could have a major impact on the organisation's future. The main political challenge remains for Russia. It marks the work of the Council of Europe during these months, as it did during the Danish Presidency. Russian parliamentarians still do not participate in the Parliamentary Assembly and Russia continues to hold its payments to the budget. Despite active efforts on all fronts over the past year, no solution has been found. I hope that at some point the hard work will bear fruit, but it will require Russia to show a willingness to compromise. It is essential that Russia honours its membership obligations and pays its contribution to the organisation. If this does not happen, then in 2019 there will have to be a decision on cuts. In the extreme, Russia may be forced to leave the Council of Europe. We in Denmark have supported efforts to get Russia to pay what they owe. At the same time, we have sought to avoid a situation in which more than 140 million Russians lose the protection provided by the European human rights system. Another key point that is high on the Council of Europe's agenda is the Elsinore Process. The process was initiated during the Danish Presidency last year to examine the organisation's tasks and mission in an uncertain future with scarce resources. Towards the Helsinki ministerial meeting in May, we in Denmark will work towards further reforms, so that the Council of Europe will be better equipped to tackle future challenges and tasks. One of the main priorities of the Danish Presidency was the adoption of the Copenhagen Declaration • a declaration that ensures a more efficient, focused and European human rights system and sets the direction for future reform work. Recent practice by the Court of Human Rights suggests that it works. We have thus promoted strong Danish and European values by working with our priorities. All in all, we have contributed to the ability of the Council of Europe to remain a powerful and effective organisation for the benefit of the more than 800 million citizens of Europe who benefit from the protection of the Council of Europe. We will continue to do so in 2019. Finally, I would like to mention one last key event in the coming months: the election of a new Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. We have sent two well-qualified candidates, my Belgian and my Croatian Foreign Minister colleague, to you in the Parliamentary Assembly. For the government it is important that the next Secretary-General becomes a dynamic and visionary person who can lead and assemble the organisation at a difficult time. It must also be someone who can and will continue the necessary reform work, including the reform processes initiated during the Danish Presidency. I hope that everyone will have it in mind when the decision is finally taken in the Parliamentary Assembly in June.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154459	There are some brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154503	Thank you very much. One is a question to repeat the question: will the government consider raising the contribution to the Council of Europe, which I think would be very sensible to do in the current situation? The second is that which Mr. Magni Arge also referred to the political prisoners sitting in Madrid right now, the Catalans who would like a referendum. Iceland has raised concerns on several occasions about whether it is now believed that they will receive fair trial, in other words whether their human rights will be respected in this context. Will Denmark do something similar to go into this discussion? For that is also one of the things that I see with great concern right now: that we actually have political prisoners sitting in Europe in that way. It's not something that's just gonna have to pass. So that was the two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154604	In relation to the gap in the budget and what Denmark will do there, it is certainly not excluded that new sources of funding can be obtained. But it will only help to a limited extent, that is, to do something temporary. If Russia does not start paying, the main path towards a balanced budget will be the implementation of downgrades and cuts, unfortunately also redundancies in the organisation. That's the thing. It's gonna be a difficult exercise. The government does not believe that it is the right solution simply to cover the gap that Russia leaves behind. In relation to the question of Catalonia, Spain is, of course, a partner in European cooperation and, of course, we trust that things are going on according to all the rules that they have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154651	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154653	I think it is a pity that we do not want to go in with the budget, because we cannot leave our human rights work dependent on the fact that as soon as those countries, which actually do not want to be involved in the game and in the field of human rights, withdraw the funding, the work will simply come to a halt. That's why I think it's so important that we actually help to go in and raise this financially. In relation to the question of the Catalans, I just have to say that now I have been down to visit some of these people. You are, of course, charged with ordinary democratic activities such as going to demonstrations and so on. They could risk going to jail for 30 years. Is it within the scope of what the Foreign Minister does not seem to be a cause for concern that people are being imprisoned for their political activities, that is to say, completely peaceful political activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154739	Like everyone else with an interest in what is going on in Spain, I am of course also following the matter with interest, but I have no reason to go further at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154751	Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154754	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, both for the written statement and also for the oral statement here. I think I could hear from the Foreign Minister that he shares the concern about some of the developments in the Council of Europe, of course in relation to Russia, but of course there is also reason to point to developments in Azerbaijan and Turkey, which point away from the Council of Europe. However, I would also like to hear the Minister in relation to what is happening in Hungary and Poland, where we also see examples of how democracy is interpreted in a different way than we do in other democratic countries, and this also applies in particular to freedom of expression. These are also things that have been discussed and pointed out in the European Union, both by the Commission and by the European Parliament. And I just want to hear what the Foreign Minister thinks of Poland and Hungary in particular, because, after all, they are part of the European family in several ways, not only in the Council of Europe, but also in the European Union. Does the government have a position on developments there, and how do you try to influence in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154916	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154917	The government has the clear position that when you join a set of rules, you do not change the rules along the way for yourself. That is why, of course, we are also watching, and the European Union is doing so in relation to the criticisms that have been made about Hungary and Poland; and the processes that are running are following closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154937	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402154938	I have just noticed that the European Union has been reasonably active in this area, and we have also had several debates in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Hungary in particular. I have just not seen such a strong message from the Council of Ministers under the Council of Europe in relation to these issues. And has Denmark done anything special to highlight the critical developments that exist, both in Poland and Hungary, when it comes to the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155013	Yeah, among other things. I do that when I meet my colleagues from the two countries mentioned, we are discussing, among other things. some of the criticisms that have been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155020	Then it's mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155025	Thank you. I had a conversation with a representative of a community representing 45 different nationalities who are stateless, if I may say so, yesterday, and he said that there was a marked taboo on the concept of the right to self-determination over recent years, and that is something similar to what I think I am experiencing in relation to the silence that has been experienced about what has happened, among other things. Down in Spain. I would like to know whether the Foreign Minister recognizes that this is a concept that is gradually moving away from, or whether one still feels obliged to assert the right of self-determination for all, as it has also been declared through UN resolutions over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155119	I do not see any taboo on that subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155125	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155126	Does this mean that perhaps I can also count on the Foreign Minister to support the idea that the Faroe Islands and Greenland's right to self-determination can be enshrined in international law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155140	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155141	I think that is outside the field we are talking about here, I would say quite frankly. We have a single kingdom, and I actually think that the cooperation that we have between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands runs amazingly well, not least in these years. I have very good relations with both my Greenlandic and Faroese colleague, and I think that we are discussing the issues within the Kingdom of Denmark in a good and frank tone.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155212	We thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that brings us to the end of the debate on the Council of Europe. Then we move on to the debate on the Baltic Sea Council, which is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155240	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for the explanation, which is relevant to the work of the Baltic Council for good and bad, one might say. The statement mentions that Denmark takes over the Presidency of the Baltic Council here per year. 1 July 2019, and during its Presidency, Denmark wishes to adopt and implement reforms that make the organisation more relevant and also increase its impact. The Baltic Sea Council is no longer the only forum for cooperation in the region. Among other things: The enlargement of the European Union to the east has changed this. But the Baltic Sea Council is still the only forum for intergovernmental cooperation where all the countries around the Baltic Sea, including Russia, are members. Social democracy agrees with the government that this particular structure should be exploited for the benefit of the region. It is important to maintain dialogue and cooperation with Russia despite Russia's unacceptable action, for example. in Ukraine. There are many cross-border problems and challenges in the region that can only be solved jointly and with which the Baltic Council is also working: Traficking in human beings, that is, trafficking in human beings, vulnerable young people, sustainability, research cooperation and the marine environment. As far as the marine environment is concerned, there is a strong need for cooperation. This applies to the fight against pollution, plastics, oil, sulphur and waste from ships, and we need to strengthen the possibility of disposing of waste in all ports in the Baltic Sea, because it gives us the opportunity to make demands for the end of emptying waste into the Baltic Sea when you pass. The possibility of letting electric ships become more important in the next few years. Then we must remember that pollution and the environment do not know about national borders. We should also focus on the need to strengthen cooperation in the region with exchanges of students, experts, organisations, etc. I myself am a member of the BSPC, the parliamentary forum for politicians from all the Baltic countries, where I am a so-called cultural rapporteur. I have chosen to work with something as modern as e-sport and to get countries to exchange experiences with each other. E-sport is in rapid development in all countries around the Baltic Sea, and it has a positive development of competences such as overview, strategy, responsiveness and the ability to plan under pressure. The gambling industry is also developing rapidly in the countries around the Baltic Sea, and there are strong opportunities to cooperate and to create friendships and communities across borders. Over the past few years, we in the BSPC have had a working group on migration and integration, on how to work together here to spread knowledge of best practice in terms of integration. I am not saying that this is the easiest issue to address across this particular group of countries, since it is indeed a very different approach to migration and integration. The conclusions of the Working Group are expected to result in recommendations to the governments of the Baltic States this autumn. However, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I would like to thank you for your statement. We are, of course, behind the Secretary of State. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155636	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155647	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement this time on the work of the Baltic Council. There is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party are also happy with the work of the Baltic Council and, like the two previous forums we have talked about under this agenda item, this is also a place where there is at least an opportunity to have a dialogue with Russia, which must be said to be needed in the sense that Russia has sometimes had in the past decade with its neighbouring countries. There are also many other good things to say about the Baltic Council. The previous rapporteur mentioned this. I mean, you're dealing with one of those things. with the fight against trafficking in human beings, with the protection of vulnerable children, with research networks and with a maritime policy aimed at achieving sustainable blue growth with a balance between economic, social and environmental considerations. It is a work that we in the Danish People's Party support. Nor do I have firsthand knowledge of the work of the Baltic Council, but I know from my party colleague in the Baltic Council who has to do with it that he is very happy and interested in the work here. I can therefore say that, as I said, the Danish People's Party is of course grateful for the statement and takes note of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155821	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, as rapporteur for the Left Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402155830	Thank you, President, and also thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this statement. We fully agree that the Baltic Sea is a strategically important area, which is becoming more and more important every day and that it is therefore also a good thing that we have a very good and close cooperation on it. On the other hand, we may also have to say that we hope that when Denmark takes over the Presidency this summer, we will also have the Baltic Sea Council relaunched, because perhaps the somewhat dusty image and the content that is today in the Baltic Sea Council, because more and more, if not all the countries are members of the European Union, make us have to find out what we are going to do with it. For challenges, there is enough, from the fact that on the one hand we can all agree that Russia's act means that we have to make a bulwark against Russia, to the fact that on the other hand we do not agree on what we do when we discuss things that are sensitive, for example. Nord Stream 2, where we saw that several of these countries wavered and fell away and so joined Nord Stream 2, so today only Denmark is left. This therefore means that we will have to go a little at the edge of our dear neighbours when, on the one hand, we say that we agree with the strategic challenge, but, on the other hand, we do not agree with how we solve the strategic challenges. I have to admit that I don't think we had a lot of friends in this discussion about Nord Stream 2. So it's certainly a hope on my part. Another hope is that we will ensure that Putin does not succeed in destabilising the region. On the other hand, I believe that if Denmark succeeds in relaunching the Council, it is one of the tools we can use to simply keep track of the fact that there will certainly not be destabilization in any way whatsoever. With those words, we in the Left clearly support the recommendations made by the Foreign Minister and, above all, the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160041	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, and it is for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160052	Thank you for that and also thank you for that statement. The Enhedslisten is not in the Baltic Sea Council, but I think that the work being done in particular to try to combat trafficking in human beings is extremely important and it is important that we give this very high priority at the moment. However, there are outlined a number of the priorities that the government would like to put forward for the Danish Presidency, and it is described here how you would like to implement this reform process. I would actually just like to call on the Foreign Minister to give a little more concrete examples of what this reform process might look like. So it's just a wish that it is unfolded a little further for those of us who are not so close to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160147	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160154	Thank you. I must be honest and say that the Baltic Sea Council is not something I work with every week, but then it is good that I have order in my archive. I work with it once a year when we discuss the statement. Two years ago, the report stated that the work being done could help gradually to pave the way for a revival of the role of the Baltic Council as a forum for political dialogue. I thought it was very dramatic to have a resuscitation, because it is something that is put into effect when there is an acute danger of death. But it looks as if the revival has succeeded, because now, two years later, Denmark is about to take over the presidency, and it looks as if work can be set in motion. So it is good news that the resurrection has succeeded and that it now indicates that some kind of relevance is being created. It is true that most countries around the Baltic Sea are members of the European Union, so it is perhaps very natural that we should talk there, and perhaps also naturally that we should talk about the country that is not. This may also help to explain some of the challenges. However, we are certainly grateful for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160329	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160336	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his statement. The alternative agrees with the Government's view that in many areas the Baltic Sea Council has been challenged by other fora, but that as the only forum for all countries along the Baltic Sea coast, including Russia, it still has a relevance. It's just about focusing work on concrete collaborations and supporting integration in the region. Of course, it is not surprising that the alternative believes that the work to make the Baltic Sea a sustainable region is a good example of a concrete project that provides added value. Therefore, it is also good to hear that the government will work to maintain the Baltic Council's focus on sustainability at the very concrete level. It can be very important for the whole region if we get more work done on sustainable fishing, preserve our natural resources and clean up. It can also help to establish dialogue between people in the different countries, which is important if we are to work in concrete terms. Sustainability and working with our natural resources can create the inter-popular relationships that, in the long term, can help to bring about positive changes for both people and the environment and nature in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160502	Thank you, Mrs Sandbæk, and we have actually come to hear the Foreign Minister now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160517	Thank you. As far as the Baltic Sea Council is concerned, Denmark is faced with an important task when we take over the Presidency this summer. It's gonna be about modernising the organization. The aim is that it should be as relevant in our time as it was when Germany and Denmark took the initiative of the Baltic Council back in 1992, when the Baltic countries had regained their independence. At that time, Denmark and Germany were the only countries around the Baltic Sea which were members of the European Union. Cooperation in the region was limited and there was a strong need for transfer of knowledge and experience and networking to support this. Fortunately, we are in a completely different place today, among other things. Thanks to the political dialogue in the region, which the Baltic Sea Council has helped to pave the way for. This does not mean that the Baltic Sea Council has become superfluous, but it must be used differently than we used it at the time. The Baltic Council should not compete with or repeat the discussions in the many other and more muscular organisations and cooperation formats that have emerged over time. We must take advantage of what is particularly at the Baltic Sea Council and focus where precisely the Baltic Council can do something that no other organisation can do better. This means that we must have a more flexible political dialogue so that it is always relevant and topical, and we must invest even more in practical cooperation across the eastern part of the region in particular. Ensuring such modernisation of the Baltic Sea Council will be the main priority of the Danish Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160648	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then we move on to the debate on the Nordic defence and preparedness cooperation. There we open with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402160706	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the statement. It is proper and sober, and I do not have so many comments on it, but perhaps such a rather general comment on everything we call NORDEFCO cooperation, i.e. Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and security. I think that over the years I have been able to see a very positive development from the fact that we could hardly talk about it at all and one-sidedly focused on the fact that we had different alliances, and it did not really turn into anything, and I also believe that defence cooperation, both on the part of politicians, I would like to say, but also on the part of ministers, was under-priority, to say that the new situation in the Baltic Sea has somehow forced cooperation through. Here we then agree that there are a number of areas where there is simply a need for closer cooperation. It is the coordination of both training and exercise activities, it is the total defence, it is the cyber defence, it is one of the new major areas that is also on today's agenda and we will be debating later. Some technical agreements are also made, including: on radar data, etc. So what I see happening around Nordic co-operation is that it is in a positive development, pressed forward, one might say, of the situation in the Baltic Sea. That's not so positive. There are two points on which I would like to make a comment. One is what is also described in the statement here, namely the cooperation of the UN mission in Mali. I think there is something beautiful about the fact that the Nordic countries together are helping to secure an important UN mission. The capacity that exists in relation to having transport aircraft we can help deliver. I think that this is a very concrete example of how Nordic cooperation can also go beyond our own geographical area when we can help to fulfil a very important UN task. Other UN items have also been mentioned in the statement. I think we should focus on this in the future too. On disaster preparedness, I would just like to say that it is also important that we work together on this. I was pleased to note the events this summer, when we in Denmark were suffering from drought and thus a large number of fires around us: then we had the capacity to help the Norwegian brother people, who were even more severely affected by forest fires. This is also a concrete example of how when it burns, we can help each other. I would like to conclude by saying that the National Guard also cooperates. We just celebrated the 70th anniversary of the National Guard's establishment. That it also has a Nordic dimension, I think is fine. All in all, thank you to the Minister for the statement, and thank you to the Minister for the commendation when there is reason to do so because the Minister has actually recognised that Nordic co-operation has a certain dimension and that it is worth spending time on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161016	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161026	Here too, I would like to begin by saying that in the Danish People's Party we would like to sign up for the statement and also that we are very pleased with Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness as well. As noted in the report, Denmark has a great deal of joy and benefit from the cooperation, and we actually agree with this in the Danish People's Party. We have among other things. The Nordic Defence Ministers agreed in November on a new vision for cooperation called NORDEFCO Vision 2025. The new vision focuses more on the Nordic-Transatlantic relationship and on cooperation with the Baltic countries. These are important priorities that we in the Danish People's Party support. Another important aspect of Nordic cooperation in the field of emergency response is that formal cooperation has begun in the preparation and fight against nature and forest fires, which is unfortunately a recurring phenomenon. Sweden in particular was hit hard last summer, so it is only good if we can help each other at a Nordic level to prevent and combat such fires. It is also an issue on which my own party group in the Nordic Council, called Nordic Freedom, is composed of the Sandfins, the Swedish Democrats and the Danish People's Party. Who knows which of the Nordic countries will need the help of their neighbours next time? Therefore, the establishment of this collaboration is both good and pleasing. In those words, I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that we take note of the statement and thank you for the debate we are taking part in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161206	Thank you to the Danish People's Party. Then it's the Left, and I can see that it's Mr. Knox. Peter Juel-Jensen, on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161214	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a good and thorough statement. I very much agree with the Minister that Denmark has great pleasure in Nordic cooperation, both in the field of defence, which takes place primarily within the framework of NORDEFCO, but also in the field of emergency response. In the field of defence, significant progress was made in 2018 on which to build in 2019. With the vision towards 2025, NORDEFCO puts increased focus on relations and cooperation with the Baltic countries, areas that essentially escape very well with the thoughts of the defence settlement here in Denmark, which goes from 2018 to 2023, where the government, together with the conciliation parties, has increased the focus on security in the Baltic Sea Council. The vision also includes objectives for cooperation up to 2025, including better coordination of training and practice activities, resilience to hybrid threats and cyber, total defence, industrial cooperation, etc. I welcome the fact that the results achieved, for example. radar data sharing to contribute to an improved situational picture in the North and the Baltic Sea region and the agreement on Nordic military mobility, on easier access to each other's country, sea and air areas in peacetime, including: by simplifying and facilitating administrative procedures. Nordic co-operation in the field of emergency response focuses on the fact that the Nordic emergency authorities can help to strengthen the resilience of individual countries to natural and man-made disasters. • Just think back to the Swedish forest fires this summer. There it was clearly shown that cooperation is the longest way to go, and if you are shoulder to shoulder, we actually have the resources to take up the fight against even the greatest disasters. Like the Minister, I see great potential in continuing to develop the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation, and I am extremely pleased that this remains a priority not only for the government but, in fact, for all the rapporteurs who have been on the floor today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161429	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161440	Thank you. I also think that this Nordic co-operation is important both in terms of preparedness and defence, and that is how we in the Enhedslisten want to strengthen Nordic co-operation when it comes to peace and conflict resolution. I would like to ask a little more about the very specific emergency aspect of this: what is the debate on economic matters, in other words, how much priority should be given to preparedness? What are the levels in the various Nordic countries? After all, it is so rare that the Enhedslisten stands and in this way speaks for this area that something could be raised in the defence budget, but precisely in the field of emergency situations, I believe that we could be a little better at prioritising it precisely because it is the preparedness that needs to be put in place when we face some of the major natural disasters that are also the result of climate change right now. So I think it would be interesting to hear the Minister for Defence say a little more about both how to discuss the increased Nordic co-operation here, but also whether it is something where there is a discussion a little across the countries and whether this area can not be strengthened a little more. In any case, I believe that it can in a Danish context. Then it is clear from the statement here that we will also cooperate with our Nordic colleagues on a contribution to the UN mission in Mali with a transport aircraft. After all, we support this on the part of the Enhedslisten, but I would just like to add that I think it is a pity that we have also seen the government say recently that it will support the French Special Operations Force Barkhane, which also operates in Mali, and that it is the one that will go in to support instead of perhaps further backing the UN mission. I think that is the wrong priority. I would like to see us, as we did, continue along the path of what is also the common Nordic line here, where we are also trying to support the UN mission.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161701	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161708	Thank you for the floor. I am not my party's defence rapporteur, but the Foreign Affairs rapporteur, which is why, of course, I do not have the same deep knowledge of NORDEFCO as our defence rapporteur. However, I am delighted to see cooperation developing and on the basis of the sensible principle, which has been emphasised time and time again by the Secretary-General of NATO, which is complementary to NATO. It is good to see that the activities are complementary and work in this way. That's the best way to do it. So we welcome this part of the report and of course take note of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161755	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402161802	Thank you very much. And thank you for your statement. The alternative basically agrees with the government's overall line and priorities in the Nordic Defence and Emergency Cooperation. We are in favour of extended Nordic integration and, of course, defence and emergency cooperation is no exception. Despite the fact that the Nordic countries are members of various defence and cooperation alliances, integration continues, and we welcome this in the alternative. Everything else equal, we just have more in common with our Nordic neighbours than with most other countries in the world. And especially when we can focus on supporting each other in an increasingly complex security situation, it makes sense and added value. The Nordic countries are among the richest and most well-functioning in the world, and this, of course, is a commitment. That is why we are also pleased to see our international responsibility lifted in relation to the capacity building in East Africa and support for the UN and other organisations in the management of humanitarian interventions. In a world headed for marked increases in temperature, with incalculable consequences, it makes sense to extend emergency cooperation. The minister himself mentions forest and nature fires in Sweden this summer. We will see more and more violent events of this kind in the years to come as the climate becomes more and more unpredictable, and an extended cooperation will of course make sense here. Next time it may be Denmark that will be flooded or exposed to forest fires, and perhaps we, like Sweden, will also be forced to call for help from our neighbouring countries to deal with it. Of course, in the absence of serious climate initiatives from the government and the rest of the world, we need to prepare for more frequent natural disasters, and we do this best in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402162010	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, next in line on my list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402162029	After all, the dream of such a Nordic defence cooperation is an old dream from right after World War II, and especially the Social Democrats with Hans Hedtoft were very concerned about it. It collapsed in 1948 when, if I may say so, the Soviet Union set up the coup in Czechoslovakia, why no other option than NATO cooperation was seen. Since then, Nordic defence cooperation has been like an idea that has still thrived in some and has been developed in a number of practical areas. What is the challenge now is that Norway and Denmark are NATO members, while Sweden and Finland are not, and Sweden is a member of the European Union, but Norway is not, and that means that there are opportunities for different cooperation constellations. Denmark has the advantage of being with us everywhere, and that is why it is important, I think, that we are very proactive. I think it is very, very good that we work together pragmatically in various very specific areas, because there is actually a chance that we can find common ground and that in this context we are developing as much as possible what I think different governments, including this government, have been spokesmen for and actively worked for. So I'd like to sign for the work from here. Otherwise, we can support the report on Nordic co-operation and hope that pragmatic cooperation can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402162223	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA who is going to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402162246	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank you for your statement. The Nordic Defence Ministers agreed on the political priorities of NORDEFCO at the end of last year in relation to the coming years in what is called Vision 2025, and 16 concrete objectives have been set which aim to strengthen Nordic defence cooperation in peacetime and during possible crisis and conflict. As a Greenlandic member of parliament, I am of course also sensitive to the objectives that can draw threads to defence cooperation in relation to Greenland, and where I see a need for us to see how it is to be implemented in the defence work in Greenland in relation to these 16 objectives. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to increased monitoring, and this is the case in relation to data sharing from radars. For with a more offensive military presence in the Arctic over the past few years, among others. from Russian and Chinese submarines in Greenland's waters, and several military bases in the area around the Arctic, it is an absolute necessity that surveillance in Greenland be strengthened. Specifically, we point out from Inuit Ataqatigiits that inspection vessels should have the necessary crew and equipment, and we also believe that increased use of satellites and drones and modern equipment can help strengthen surveillance and preparedness around Greenland. This work has already been well set in motion, but we are not at all in line with the implementation of the defence settlement, among other things. A goal in the future defence efforts in the Arctic and around Greenland, which I would like to highlight, is an enhanced resilience to cyber threats, and in the Ministry of Defence's own report on the Arctic • in what is called the Arctic analysis • there will be among other things. identified a need for Arctic Command to have the capacity to address cyber threats to Greenland. Similarly, Inuit Ataqatigiit also believes that the law on Center for Cybersecurity should also apply in Greenland, so that the police and Arctic Command will have increased scope for action, and that we ensure that there is advice to Greenlandic companies in relation to the response to cyber threats. But it is not only cybersecurity that is threatened when we talk about the Arctic. For a number of years Russia has armed military forces in the Arctic, and only 1,000 km away from Greenland there is a Russian base. Here Russia can station both fighter aircraft and transport aircraft, which can operate 24 hours a day and which can also reach Greenland by refueling aircraft. This, combined with the fact that, within a few years, we are also going to negotiate on the continental shelf with Russia, has led us, among other things, to this. has called the Foreign Minister in a closed consultation on how Greenland and Denmark should act proactively in relation to Russia's increased militarisation of the Arctic. Because it is important that we jointly have a clear plan for this. Russia has been mentioned a few times here in the course of today's debate on defence and Nordic co-operation. As Parliament's representative on the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, I have just been to Russia to meet with my colleagues from the Arctic, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we cannot stress enough how important it is with dialogue and diplomatic work, but also a more activist line, which both Radical Left and SF advocated earlier in the debate, is an important part of our efforts. This is something that we must do, while, of course, we are prepared for things to change and for things to happen as unforeseen things to happen. In the Arctic we have managed to create a low-voltage area, and this is something in which we both from Denmark and Greenland have a great interest in staying that way. This also presupposes that we prepare ourselves for what is unpredictable and that we address any conflicts that may arise, but that we also allow room for dialogue and for resolving conflicts through the path of dialogue wherever possible. With these words we say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402162720	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Then it's Magni Arge from T. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402162730	Thank you. I said this in the debate about the Nordic Council last week, and I am happy to say it again: I think it is positive that the Nordic countries are developing defence cooperation, and I think that the initiatives of the Minister for Defence to establish closer cooperation between Nordic countries in defence matters have made it clear that there are important development opportunities for Nordic co-operation in general, which make good sense to all parties and strengthen the position of the Nordic countries vis-à-vis the outside world. I assume, of course, that the government also respects the spirit of the 2005 Fámjin Agreement to consult Faroese authorities on defence issues and that respect is shown for the people who live and live in areas affected by military activities. My purpose in taking the floor in this debate today is, moreover, more to address the emergency part of the statement. I suppose it was written before Viking Sky's Motorhavari last week in Norway. It was nothing short of a horror scenario that took place off the Norwegian coast. Here the danger of the great accident with large cruise ships in the North Atlantic was moved from the simulator into the real world. The challenge was enormous and a mass rescue operation was launched to salvage the almost 1,400 passengers on board the giant ship. Help was even received from Denmark to carry out the normal preparedness in Norway, while the Norwegian life-raft was used to evacuate people from the ship. It was nothing short of a gigantic operation, yet under the bad weather, it was not possible to evacuate more than 479 of 1,373 people in one day with five large helicopters, although Norway has a well-developed infrastructure and perhaps the best preparedness for such operations in our part of the world. Thank God they got the machinery on board the ship going again, and with the help of tugboats they managed to avoid a complete disaster. It does not take much imagination to imagine how wrong it could go in another and more deserted place with few people and far to the nearest neighbor. I can say that in the Faroe Islands, which have a relatively well-developed infrastructure, where we have a relatively good preparedness, we have two modern medium-size helicopters and a relatively short distance from neighbouring countries, but this incident that we witnessed in Norway really provides food for thought. If this happened in East Greenland or on the Icelandic north coast, it is very far to helping hands and also very far to the nearest infrastructure. In the light of this incident, I would like the Nordic countries, together with other Arctic states, to enter into a new assessment of what situations can actually arise, and then to put forward proposals on how to not only reduce but minimise the risk of them occurring. It may be a requirement to use pilots or certain shipping routes, or that two ships that can help each other sail in the same area at the same time as it has previously been proposed in Greenland. However, it may also be a matter of limiting the number of passengers on board in certain geographical areas, so that the emergency challenge is limited so that it is manageable. Traffic with both cruise ships and other vessels is increasing in the Arctic and North Atlantic, and this is not only for the benefit of the people living in the area. Because there can be a great difference between the willingness of the various shipping companies to contribute to the communities that they visit and use. On the other hand, it is expected that the communities in the area will open their doors to all guests and, moreover, provide all their preparedness if needed. I would like to see an analysis of the risks and preparedness of maritime shipping in the northern seas also provide an input into how private actors can contribute to better preparedness in the future. The model is already known from aviation, where airlines pay en route charges, which are then used for monitoring, weather information and accident preparedness. It could be a model to charge a fee for sailing in these waters, which was conditional on how many passengers were on board and it would then make those who make money on sailing in the area also participate in the payment of the necessary preparedness that arises in the wake of the shipping routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402163248	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. And then we've reached the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402163301	I would like to thank you for the speeches you have made here during the debate. As far as I am concerned, this confirms the great interest in the Danish Parliament in Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness. With regard to Nordic defence cooperation, the report shows that significant progress has also been made in 2018 with the new vision for NORDEFCO, Vision 2025. "Vision 2025" sets out the policy guidelines for cooperation in the coming years and raises the ambition by establishing that cooperation should also be possible during a possible crisis situation or during a conflict. It sends a strong signal of the close ties we have in the North. It is also positive that the vision also sets concrete development objectives for cooperation in the coming years. Thus, the focus is on strengthening coordination of training and exercise activities and capacity cooperation, and it is also a priority to strengthen resilience to hybrid threats and cyberattacks, cooperation in total defence, cooperation with industry, etc. In 2019 it is 10 years since NORDEFCO was established and I am pleased with the developments that have taken place, especially in recent years. It is positive that Nordic defence cooperation has been more concrete and operationally strengthened in relation to inter alia. increased military mobility, better radar data sharing and increased interoperability between the Nordic forces, while at the same time the political dialogue has become increasingly closer. The good development we intend to continue when Denmark next year takes over the presidency of NORDEFCO, and we will ensure that the implementation of Vision 2025 is given a high priority. At the same time, we are taking steps to strengthen the Danish profile in Nordic defence cooperation by adding personnel resources to the area, appointing a traveling defence attaché, strengthening the focus on the Nordic Region in practice and strengthening the Nordic Defence Academy network. In the field of defence and preparedness, it is essential for a secure and robust society. Nordic co-operation in these areas is an important contribution to this. For example, Nordic co-operation in the field of emergency response is: help to strengthen the resilience of individual countries to natural and man-made disasters. Therefore, Denmark is also fully dedicated to strong Nordic cooperation in this area, which is one of the reasons why. was underlined by the fire-fighting efforts in Sweden in the summer of 2018, where over 200 Danish fire-fighters were a tangible proof of this. And it is a cooperation that needs to be strengthened. Eva Flyvholm asked how to handle this collaboration. Some risk assessments are being prepared because the risks that exist in the Nordic countries are different. Skovbrande a la Sweden is not so relevant in Denmark etc., so in this way one can say that one has to specialise a little. But there is also a very wide-ranging cooperation in Europe in this field of emergency situations. We have seen this in the case of floods in Central Europe when the rivers cross their shores. After all, the tools in the various countries are very quick to put up with those situations. I would also like to say that there is widespread cooperation in the area of home defence. This has taken place for more than 50 years; there we have had an in-depth collaboration on the development of volunteers in the Home Guard in Denmark, Norway and Sweden. And Nordic co-operation has historically been focused on volunteers in the Scandinavian countries, but there is also a more formalised cooperation between the various Home Guards. Then Magni Arge raises the case of the Norwegian cruise ship, and it is indeed a situation that can give sweat to the forehead, when you think of the desert areas that exist, for example. in Greenland. If you have some rescue helicopters that can take 12 passengers ashore at a time, then there really needs to be a huge capacity. I have discussed this with staff in the Ministry of Defence and asked: tell me, what happens if we run into such a disaster? And these cruise ships are becoming more and more daring, because they constantly have to find new areas where no one has been before, and that is the attraction of the cruise on which they embark. So I think there's a lot of sense in us sitting down and discussing what you actually do in those situations. There are recommendations for "there are no rules" that you must have twin sailing, that is, if you are going to sail in these waters, then two cruise ships must go along etc., but these things are not being observed. So this is an area we need to work on. In connection with what happened in Norway, Norwegian helicopter preparedness came under pressure, that is, during that action, and Denmark then sent helicopters up to take care of the normal preparedness that is available in Norway. So in this way we also support these situations. But it is clear that Greenland waters in particular need to be considered. I do not really know what solutions are available, because these are huge ships we are talking about here in unwise areas. So you shouldn't stick yourself in the eye when you want to be able to solve these situations, because you won't be able to have such a huge response. Anyway, let's sit down and try to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164035	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments and the first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164039	Thank you to the Minister and also thank you for the latter. In fact, I think that the issue of cruise ships is a very important one, in which we may have to look at how to further regulate ourselves out of it, so people have to sail in a different way, because it requires so much capacity. So I very much welcome that. However, my question is a little bit about how much economy is actually set aside for preparedness and how the level is in the various Nordic countries, and the discussion about whether we have a high enough level. I am quite concerned that the level of civilian preparedness is actually not high enough in Denmark. It is in the event of floods, but it may also be in the event of an outbreak of disease, and it may also be in the case of terrorist attacks etc. that this is what needs to be done and can react fairly quickly. In fact, I am a little worried that we are not well enough equipped as things stand now. I would like to hear a little more about what the discussion is like and also about the cooperation with the others. And if the Minister is unable to respond to the level in all the countries, it may be possible to return with a written reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164156	The emergency aid is divided into two parts in Denmark. The primary preparedness is municipal preparedness, and it has been through a structural change in recent years, so we now have some and twenty tools in Denmark. What the state preparedness can do is to provide additional resources, and it is like a superstructure on the municipal tools. It was agreed in connection with the defence settlement that we should make a committee that has been adopted a mandate to look at the state of the Danish preparedness. That work has been started, and it was at the Socialist initiative that we set that work in motion. I believe that sometime in the course of this year we will have the result. We will then be better able to answer Mrs Eva Flyvholm's question about preparedness. I believe that we have a very sensible response. It's especially in the event of flooding with these floating barriers, etc., that you can move out of state emergency. But we can come back to that. I have no figures on how we are in relation to other countries, but I am quite sure that the Danish preparedness is quite good, and we are also known for being able to participate around the world and are often asked to participate around the world with specialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164345	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164346	It is precisely in line with that: I think it is very important that we can make it available, and there it is typically the state preparedness that is being sent out on these international and Nordic missions. I have to admit that what I hear around here is that we are not quite well enough equipped to be able to continue to solve so many tasks. I actually find that a little worrying. So I would like to ask the Minister: is the impression not that it might be sensible to look at strengthening it? It was not so many years ago that there was also a reduction in state preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164426	The emergency response has now been transferred to the defence settlement, so the preparedness is now included in the defence settlement we have. That gives us a very good synergy. For example, it did. in relation to the forest fires in Sweden. Here, the armed forces used Herculesfly to transport equipment almost straight up to where the Danes were to operate. So that way, I think there's been a quality boost in this work. But we must always deal with the risks involved. Should Denmark, for example: Sacrifice money on helicopters that can put out fires in drought areas? I mean, we're not even in the middle of a drought. That is why I believe that the various countries need to do something for themselves in these areas of emergency. I myself have been in discussions with the European Commission, which imagines that they should set up such back-up situations, but I do not think that it should be the case that countries can shake themselves free from their obligation to provide themselves with a response to the most frequent threats that affect those countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164547	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164551	Thank you very much, too, to the Minister for the comments. There are many of us in Greenland who have also followed the accident that happened in Norway, and in our quiet mind have also made us think about this with what would have happened if it had happened in Greenland. So I would like to thank the Minister for his comments on this at least. It can be said that in the last few years we have become more aware of where the gaps really are in relation to our preparedness in Greenland and, as the Minister himself said, this is a huge area, and that really requires a dialogue. So, first of all, I would like to ask the Minister: in what ways does the Minister envisage us being able to engage in this dialogue? Is it in the course of negotiations of a defence settlement, and if so, does it not make sense for us to participate as Greenlandic members of parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164634-2	Well, of course it must take place in dialogue with Greenland, but of course primarily in dialogue with the Greenlandic authorities, who are our partner in these matters. After all, we are also building a readiness in Greenland, which we have been talking about since the Arctic strategy, and that work is currently under way. But it is clear that we need to discuss some of these major challenges in the giant country that Greenland is, and so everything is harder and more complicated in Greenland than it is here. Because of the distance alone, we have to think and work systematically on these things. So I would very, very much like to come back to that. And I can't help but say that you got really creepy in your hands, because imagine if that one had gotten that accident on the east coast of Greenland... what then? Well, people had to be put on land, and then you had to throw down equipment so they could survive for a few days until assistance came. So what we're talking about here is super complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164804	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164805	Thank you very much. With regard to helicopter capacity, which is a small part of the preparedness, there is a contract between the government and Air Greeland, which is one of the only aircraft operators in Greenland, and I know there is at least one of the other parties in here, the Danish People's Party, which has pointed out that it would make a very good sense to give this contract to Air Greenland, because they are one of the very, very few players who are in Greenland, who, like a special knowledge of it here. Is this something that the government could imagine supporting, because one could see an advantage in perhaps making a more permanent solution to helicopter preparedness?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164843	Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164844	I have to be honest with you, I don't feel competent to say anything about who's the best supplier of those things. So we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164856	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. ; Magni Arge, T.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402164857	Thank you for the further statement and, what to say, the concerns about •Viking Sky • and what it has set in motion. I think, as I also said in my speech, that it is a very serious matter where some thought and action is really needed, but it is not enough that we are just thinking and thinking, because action should be taken. I think that a very natural way to go is not only to have dialogue between the West Nordic countries and the Nordic countries, but also to include the Arctic neighbours, for example. Canada, which is neighbouring Greenland, and Russia, which we also have, which is close to this Arctic area. Because we need all available resources to be mobilised in the event that such a situation occurs in the worst possible place, at the worst possible time, in the worst possible circumstances, and now we have seen that it can be done. It was only the location that was not so difficult in this context. So I just wanted to know if the Secretary of Defense would agree that this is a viable path.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165009-2	So when you talk to Arctic Command, you hear that some of what works really well in the Arctic regions is the cooperation between the Arctic countries around Search and Rescue, because time is, of course, crucial to how quickly you can help people, and we must of course stick to that. So it is on the plus side that there is cooperation between the Arctic countries, Russia, Canada, Denmark, Norway; it works very well in those areas, but working conditions are difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165055	Sir. Magni Arge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165057	Thank you. I would just like to comment on what the Minister mentioned, namely that it was not really clear what areas of action could then be taken. However, part of the effort that I tried to mention in my speech, and I would like to repeat it, is this: it is only this that private operators who make use of these marine areas should also be required to participate in the funding of the preparedness that they are actually the major exponents for having to use at some point in time, and that is not something that exists today. The next point is the introduction of rules on restrictions and sanctions in the event of a breach of these rules, for example. the places where you enter and take a greater risk than necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165145	Well, we have to come back to that question when we have a talk about the challenges of cruise sailing in the Arctic regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165156	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165215	We will open the debate with Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165221	I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they agree with the Social Democratic Party at least on this matter. Over recent years, we have seen with increasing strength how cybersecurity can have serious security and socio-economic consequences at home, but also around the world. We have seen hospitals crippled in Britain, with high costs, both economically and humanly. We have seen Mærsk, who has publicly indicated that it cost a billion dollars when they were subjected to hacking. We know that Danish ministries have been tried hacked. We know that there are plenty of citizens who have been robbed of their identity and money. We know that very important social institutions and social organisations dealing with water, electricity, the money system, NemID etc. are constantly subjected to hacking, both more amateur-like, but also in a way that is super professional. And then we know that our intelligence service says that there is a very, very high cyber threat in Denmark. It is not only in Denmark, it is all over the world, but it is certainly also very high in Denmark. That is why we have today what I would call a very important legislative proposal. With this bill, we are adapting the Center for Cybersecurity to the increasing cyber threat that is with the massive technological developments that we have experienced these years. So I think it's very concrete to say that when we come up with this legislation, it's not because we're nervous because we think No, we come up with this legislation, because we know at the same time we also know that Denmark and Danish companies and authorities are in a race with foreign states, hacker groups and individuals who constantly develop new ways of exploiting cyber attacks to achieve both their political but also their economic goals. And there you can't just sit back and pretend like nothing; there we have to have muscles to resist. So we are simply proposing to adapt legislation to reality so that we can also respond in the future to the threats that we face in Danish society. The bill is, in fact, an important extension of the defence settlement. It can be said here that for the first time, we took a serious approach to addressing the Cyber rush. For the Social Democratic Party, this was an important priority in the defence conciliation negotiations. I'm not going to go through the new tools that we're going to get. That would be too extensive, and neither does time allow it. I would just like to say that we in the parties that have a vote deal in this area have examined very carefully the consultation answers that have been given, and I would also like to say that some of the consultation answers are critical, and there are also some areas where there are discussions that I think we should take seriously, because we are going a step further in relation to the way we normally have freedoms, etc. In Denmark. I am pleased that, in the case of the vast majority of concerns, we have been able to take them on board and have it adapted. So I think everyone should be able to see themselves in this. One of the natural discussions is that the Cybersecurity Centre is connected to the Defense Intelligence Service. Other countries have also chosen that, and some countries have chosen a different way of doing it. I myself would like to say that I am pleased that we made the decision that the Cybersecurity Centre should be associated with the defence intelligence service. And I am because those who in Denmark have the ability and the ability to have the close contact with what is going on in the big world are precisely the Defence Intelligence Service. And then I just want to say that having the close contact I think I'm rusting the center to be much more able to accept the threats we're facing. Finally, I would just like to say that, of course, I am also pleased that the Centre for Cybersecurity is not just sailing its own lake. In addition to having the guidelines that you have when you are a state organisation, we also have the supervision of intelligence services, which carry out both extensive and intense control over the processing of personal data by the centre, and they have access to data and material and to IT systems, etc. So I think we've got this put in some decent, clear and tough frames.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165751	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165752	Now Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, that he is pleased that we in Denmark have chosen to place it under Defence Intelligence. I have to say, I certainly am not. I think it is quite clear that it is a mistake to have chosen that structure. When we look around Europe how the vast majority of other countries have done so, it is not that way either. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur if it does not make the impression that in the autumn we had a very large hearing under the auspices of the Defence Committee, where I thought it was very clear that the experts who were present were researchers, people from the IT security sector and so on. Isn't that something that makes an impression on Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, when you like to see that there are so many shouting in arms?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165856	Yes, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, it is. By the way, I thought it was a good conference. One of the things I took with me from that conference was that we should create a forum where relevant authorities and private companies and their organisations could talk about this. I think we'll get that. The Secretary of Defense has at least pretended to think it is a good idea, so I expect that it will turn into something concrete as well. May I say in more general terms that I am in favour of discussing this kind of thing. I am concerned about gaining the greatest knowledge and thus the greatest opportunity for protection in this area. Then perhaps there is a difference of degree in the mistrust that one can have or does not have of an organization, and that is fair enough. But I do care, and that is also why I think the monitoring body here is extremely important. And I would say that we must keep an eye on whether they need more resources, and if they do, we must also be open to giving it to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165957	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402165959	Thank you. Yeah, I'm definitely worried that all that information is going to be under the intelligence service here. However, in relation to the advice that is being proposed to involve organisations more, I do not see that this is quite what they were asking for. I mean, they wanted to have a panel where they had more political control over it. But here you get a piece of advice where it's still the Cybersecurity Center that sits as the key party. At least that's what I heard. The second question I would like to ask is this: Henrik Dam Kristensen, that the control of the intelligence services can completely deal with all the problems that might be involved in this? Because that's not how I see supervision working. Well, basically, it's not very good supervision there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170040	First of all, Mrs Flyvholm, the approach is that we have a state authority that meets the administrative duties and so on, and there is no suspicion whatsoever of either employees at the FE or Cybersecurity Centre. I believe that it is decent, efficient and capable officials who ensure that they comply with the legislation that Mrs Flyvholm and I adopt. Perhaps it will not be adopted unanimously, but will be adopted by a majority in this House. That's the first angle to it. Then we have also built up the control authority by independent experts and researchers who have unhindered access to check. So I kind of feel safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170123	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170125	Thank you. Where other parties have ideologies that one professes when designing one's policy, the Danish People's Party has a consideration for Denmark in all decisions we make. And it is then, whether it is the concern for our social design that we want to preserve, the concern for our language and culture that we want to preserve, or the concern for the safety of the Danes, which we value very much. So it is always the concern for Denmark that is the backbone of Danish People's Party politics. It can be said that the draft law we are discussing here today is very much one by one in relation to ensuring the Danes better. Where the defense has traditionally had to operate in relation to the ground, to the air and to the lake, an extra domain has now been created, namely cyberspace. And there, of course, it is important that we ensure that the defence can act in cyberspace and that it also has the right tools to secure the Danes in relation to this domain. There is no need for the army to have the right vehicles or the Navy to have the right ships, but here it is the case that we need to have the right legal framework for making our talented people in the Cyber Safety Centre work in the right way. After all, the bill allows the Cybersecurity Center to create better cybersecurity. They will be given new tools in the form of better opportunities to monitor the Internet in relation to society-critical businesses. They will have the opportunity to set up so-called honeypots and sinkholes, which in the past have proved to be effective tools to partly detect attacks and learn how criminals act in this, and to ensure that you can stop attacks. That's how they stopped the so-called WannaCry attack. In addition, it ensures a more flexible procedure in that people who have been subjected to an attack can be more easily informed or stored relevant information. The proposal we are debating today is, of course, a revised proposal in relation to what was submitted for consultation, and in the Danish People's Party we are pleased that we have listened to the concern expressed in particular by the trade union movement, which had a fear that employees could be shown unnecessarily in relation to their job security. All in all, it has to be said that when Defense Intelligence considers cybersecurity and cyberspace attacks to be one of the three biggest threats to the kingdom, it is relevant to ensure that we strengthen that part of our defenses considerably. We do this with this bill, which is why the Danish People's Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170506	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. Next in line, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170515	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by commending my two colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party for some excellent rapporteur speakers who have come well around the bill. Some states are constantly trying to carry out cyber-espionage against Danish authorities and Danish companies, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to discover their activities, but since the consequences of this threat can be completely incalculable, it is not a solution to sit with your hands in your lap. We're being forced to act. And that is actually the reason why a circle of parties has made an agreement for a substantial strengthening of cyber protection in Denmark. This bill amending the current Cybersecurity Centre will, with a number of initiatives, strengthen cybersecurity. We can of course see that in other countries that have been subject to cyber attacks and where critical infrastructure has been attacked, it has far-reaching consequences. We're getting a long way with this bill today, but it doesn't have to be a sleeping pillow, because we can protect ourselves along the way, but developments in this area are going so fast, so what tomorrow brings, we don't really know. So we must always ensure that we follow closely and that we are ready to act and take the necessary decisions. But basically, and I think we can all learn from that, the cybersecurity of the individual starts with the individual every time we log in and use a device that is connected to other places. So cybersecurity is not something that we can put into practice at state level; no, it goes from every user and then right up to the authority that sits and is responsible, namely the Centre for Cybersecurity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170724	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402170733	Like the other rapporteurs, I also think it is very, very important that we strengthen our defence against cyber attacks, because there is an obvious need for this. But in the Enhedslisten we feel that the protection of our vital infrastructure, for example. Our transport and our health services are therefore a matter for the whole of society, and that is why the Cybersecurity Centre should be placed as a civil authority under proper democratic control. Actually, I think it's a big problem that this center is under Defense Intelligence. It is the most closed of our intelligence services, and it is not covered by the general rules applicable to all other authorities, i.e. administrative law, personal data law, procedural law, etc., and is therefore outside them. I find it deeply problematic that this structure has been chosen. The closeness to this work, which we all think is very important, means a lot, and I think it's harmful with that closeness, and it gives us a deep uncertainty about how this information can be shared and used, i.e. what information is being transmitted to the Defense Intelligence Service from the Cybersecurity Center. It may well be that we from the left side per. definition is a little more likely to be concerned about the intelligence services' monitoring of citizens, but there are some historical reasons why we are. I would say that I think it is actually a democratic matter for all of us when we cannot be sure what is really going on and then we are worried. For example, we can see that the new data protection rules that we have recently adopted do not apply to the work of the Centre, and I think it should be expected that such a centre should meet the same standards for the protection of citizens' information as everyone else. It has been mentioned several times that there is supervision of the intelligence services, but I have to say that it has to be made clear that this oversight of the intelligence services is therefore not very thorough. In Denmark, firstly, it is not an independent authority or independent body, as it is elsewhere, and they do not have the opportunity to carry out unannounced inspections, but they actually go in and see when it is recorded that personal data has been drawn, but they do not relate to whether the data is then handled in a sensible way. And there are plenty of other things that I think you should go into. So I don't think that supervision in any way is enough to make us safe about it. In short, this is where the Cybersecurity Centre is fatally misplaced under the Defence Intelligence Service, and I think it is so important that we get this structure right and place it as a civil authority, where it belongs, and that is also how most countries have done Holland, Finland, Norway, France and so on. has brought together this work on cybersecurity in civil authorities, for example. under their Ministry of Justice or Ministry of Transport. We want the Enhedslisten to set up an IT ministry, and it could also be a unit under such a ministry. I simply think we need to have that discussion, especially because virtually all the experts and actors in this area are deeply critical of the structure chosen in Denmark. We held a major cybersecurity conference in here where these scientists and IT professionals, etc. over a comb said that there is a problem here, then, that it is the Defense Intelligence Service that is centrally located in this. It is both because of the secrecy and concern for the rules, but also basically because they didn't think that you got the best cybersecurity out of it, because there will be too much focus on • and it's probably a natural work injury in the defense intelligence service, you could say • on China and Russia and too little focus on the attacks that can also come from ordinary hackers and others. Finally, with regard to the specific proposal here, I would like to say that there have been very, very critical responses to the consultation. One of the things that has been addressed is that companies may be forced to put these boxes on where the Cybersecurity Centre can pull out the information, and I still find that problematic, just as it is problematic that we cannot get a clear answer to what some companies are concerned with. It is also problematic to go in and lure companies into making mistakes in order to test the level of safety. However, I would like to commend the Minister and the other parties for the fact that corrections have been made so that these employees will not get into such serious problems, and in this respect they risk not being fired, and I think that this is a very good thing that has been corrected. But that doesn't change the fact that these employees, for example. Still away will be exposed to an intelligence service sitting watching what your husband or child is called, and what your sexuality and various other things are, to see if information can be gathered to show where there may be security gaps. I think that is quite basically very, very problematic and unpleasant. Finally, this also calls for an extension of the erasing deadlines so that the Cybersecurity Centre can have the information much longer. So there is a great deal to discuss here, and we will have plenty of opportunity to do so, I am sure, in the coming time, but basically we cannot support this proposal on the part of Enhedslisten because the fundamental problems have not been resolved and we certainly cannot vote to give more powers to the Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171315	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171320	The Enhedslisten and Mrs Eva Flyvholm said at the outset that they, like the rest of us, are concerned about the threat that exists. It's a good thing we can agree on that. Then it is the instruments that we are talking about. I have two things. First of all, it is true that you can do those tests with employees, but I just think it is much better that you fall in with the center's employees than with a malicious hacker. The second thing that lies in it is that of supervision. I think Mrs Eva Flyvholm came to say that you could not make unannounced visits. I would just like to ask Mrs Flyvholm: is it not true that if you read the bill, the supervision has the processing of all personal data and has access to all the data and the materials and IT systems that exist? Thus, supervision is subject to stricter control than any other state authority. Is that a wrong interpretation on my part?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171423	So, to the end, as the rapporteur asks here, I would like to say that as far as I know, this inspection service does not have the status of unannounced inspections. That is how I have been informed, and that is what I am dealing with. I still think that is correct, and otherwise you can give me a written explanation that they can do it. But as far as I know, it's not that they can do it. And I think they should. For like the Labour Inspectorate, for example. I think it makes sense, for example, to get some very different results if you flunk by a day when no one had just expected it than you do on the day when you had reported you would come. to be able to do it. But to the second, as Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen asks, I would say that it is exactly the core: yes, I think it is necessary that we strengthen our cybersecurity. And it may also be reasonable to go in and test in some ways where you look at the companies that have problems, where the employees may not have been trained well enough, and where the management needs to do something more for it etc., so to accommodate these cyber threats. But I do not think it is reassuring that it is an intelligence service that will be able to store information about ordinary employees for up to three years, for example. an energy company or in the health service; it may be information about what their pets are called, what their husband does, etc. Well, that's the kind of information you actually go in and pull out, and they're three years in a secret service like that. I do not think that is reassuring, and that is why I believe it should be a civil authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171550	Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171552	I would say to Mrs Flyvholm that supervision is of course important to both of us. I also want it to be there, so I really hope that the Minister for Defence will bring this in and respond in concrete terms today, or that he will make a detailed note of what we really can do. Because that is important in order to be able to have a forward-looking debate. So I would like to ask: if we then said that we were making such a centre, but moving it outside the control of the FE, somewhere for herself, would Mrs Flyvholm vote for this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171619	Well, yes, as a starting point. If it were in a civil authority, that is, this work, which is covered by the general rules that I call them to be, yes, then we would be happy to vote in favour of this legislation. We have even made suggestions in the Folketing that the Centre for Cybersecurity should be made a civilian authority. And if sir... Henrik Dam Kristensen and others might support such a proposal, I am happy to make it again, and then we can all leave here in deep harmony and agreement that that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171647	It just gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. Eva Flyvholm Well that was great).
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171650	Thank you. I believe that the rapporteur spoke out because I thought I heard the rapporteur say that the Cybersecurity Centre is in no way subject to legislation ensuring that there is regulation of personal data. As far as I remember, and there I just want a yes or no answer... it's actually regulated in the legislation behind the Center for Cybersecurity, how to deal with personal data. There are very tough demands on it. So that is not correct when the rapporteur says that it is not regulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171724	After all, the Cybersecurity Centre is exempt from the Personal Data Act. It is also the case that it is exempted in the Administrative Act and in a number of other laws, because it lies under the Defence Intelligence Service. Then you have further written in this Cybersecurity Center Act that you want to follow the same principles as those of the other laws. In my world it is simply not good enough to say so cozyly that you want to follow the same principles. I do not see why we cannot simply ensure that this authority is subject to the same rules, because then we would not have to discuss it or be concerned about it. So I actually don't think it's an equally good security, unfortunately. However, I would like to admit that there are, of course, some rules, but I do not think that they are as good as they are for all the other authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171805	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171807	As I remember the original law behind the Center for Cybersecurity, there is actually a reasonably detailed regulation of the center's processing of personal data. So I actually think the rapporteur should be asked a written question or I will do it because I think I am actually right. Then I would like to hear it because it sounded as if the rapporteur had read the bill in a slightly different way than I had done. I do not think I have come across in the bill that there is any authority for Center for Cybersecurity employees to go in to control the nicknames of Danish energy workers for their animals. Where does the rapporteur find this in the rapporteur's free imagination?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171848	No, the last thing here is that when the center goes in and has to do tests like this in order to assess the level of safety in some of this critical infrastructure around here, you're actually gonna get an opportunity with this bill to go in to test whether the employees are obvious to fall into safety holes, can't you say? So there you actually go fishing information about all sorts of things. If it were me, you'd probably check out Eva's cute baby's name, and I wonder if that's Eva's password, or what? Well, you test things like that to find out if people have done too bad passwords. Actually, it's in the bill. I just have to say that. To that with the law: I can promise the rapporteur that I have asked a lot of questions about it, and I am happy to do it again. The fact is that there is a reason why intelligence services are not subject to the same rules as all of us, and that is exactly what concerns me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171941	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Next in line, sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402171949	Thank you. But let me start by stating that the Liberal Alliance believes it is necessary to give additional powers to the Cyber Security Centre. This requires the current security threats. After all, we have had a proposal for this now, with the bill, for a very long period of discussion, which must balance the interests of state security on the one hand with the legal certainty of citizens and companies more generally on the other. This is not an easy task. When you read through the consultation answers, there are a lot of warnings that have made us say to ourselves that we must also think very carefully. In fact, it is quite difficult to find positive statements, but now it is also a lot of special interests, and it is we in here who have the overall responsibility for the interests of the state and society. In view of the proportions of the case, we consider, after an overall assessment, that it can be argued that, despite the challenges posed by the proposal in relation to the general principles of law, there is a real argument behind it. For imagine, if we cannot call 112 one day, or if electricity supplies stop and the institutions of society stop or are put down, and at the same time we had a real opportunity to prevent it, then we would not be praised for it. And then DSB's crash yesterday will be a mosquito next to what else we're going to experience. This is mainly due to the fact that the alternatives will be worse. Of course, we believe our own people in the Center for Cybersecurity more than in Russian agents. It says just like itself. We also do so because the Danish analysts, as they are called in the bill, in the Center for Cybersecurity are enticing and can be controlled, and if there is a need to go fully into the company's desktop data, it is after agreement with the company. It's like the new thing we're gonna get with the changes. And we actually think that the Minister has listened to the most brittle criticism and thank you for that. We therefore choose to regard the proposal here as an intention to give companies additional protection, in other words protection beyond what they themselves establish. Having said that, however, we would also like to discuss in committee whether the border between state security and citizens' legal certainty is equal. Will it be possible to shorten the period during which the many data are available before they have to be deleted, as has also been the case? And are we now absolutely sure that we have fenced the possibilities of abuse and errors sufficiently inside when we think of the really large amounts of data we are dealing with? We will support the proposal, but we have no objection to acid testing the very difficult limit we have between these essential principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402172305	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402172312	Thank you. This is a good debate and a very, very important debate, and that is what most critics of the bill say, so that we simply have to have this debate at the highest level in Denmark. And that's what we have. In the alternative, we are divided, for the intention is good. I think that the Social Democrat rapporteur made an excellent statement about the need for the rapporteur of the Left too. We agree with some of the problems, most recently raised by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. That is what we are in relation to freedoms towards state security, and in relation to the location of the Centre for Cybersecurity, we fully agree with the criticism made by Mrs Eva Flyvholm. We simply cannot see the justification for the current location. But that has already been said, so I will focus on some other things. In committee we will focus on the excellent adjustments that have already been made. I think it is some fine concessions that have been made in relation to some of the consultation responses. I can't say for sure that we have a better alternative in the bag for this, but maybe we just need to have a general discussion about whether it's always legitimate that we defend ourselves more and more against this cyber threat. It is a hugely difficult discussion to have and, as is often the case in the area of justice, it is the case that when you say that you do not want to participate in this, there is also the risk that there may be an attack, or that you may experience something five months later, where you can then say as a responsible minister: we were actually advised to do this why didn't we? So where's the limit? We have to do this in committee, and I look forward to the conference which will be held on Thursday, organised by the Engineer's Association, among other things. cybersecurity. My biggest problem at the moment is that all the experts I normally listen to say that this is a skewed direction. But that is why you can have a political ambition and a political responsibility that you have to take. It is just incredibly difficult to go against the experts' assessment when it is as violent as I think it is in the consultation answers. But we are not going to take a stand today. Generally speaking, we are adversely disposed towards the draft law. We think that there has been a move in relation to due diligence in this area, and we think that it is simply too much going beyond our liberal society-building. It was said that this is only in relation to a one-digit number of organisations I think it was what was mentioned at some point that you want this forced surveillance, but then when I talk to the experts, they say: yes, that's right, but this one-digit number of organizations is spreading out and actually covering virtually the whole of Denmark and almost all households. In any case, that is my view. It is, of course, very wide-ranging organizations, so you can say that it is a few that can be imposed here, but it is very, very pervasive. Is it the right thing to impose them to secure the state? It may be, but I think that the criticism of the Centre for Cybersecurity is quite significant, also in terms of whether it is actually there, the right and the best competences in the country are. I wish I was not competent to assess it at all, but I would like that center to be simply the best thing to navigate it and to spot and warn when threats arise. But what I hear from the water pipes is that there are actually people who want to participate in this, but who can't really come in and join because you centralize it in the Cybersecurity Center. We invest massively in making the center bigger, but we may not do so, just as we have seen in Israel. At least it is not my opinion that they do so with quite a lot of success, thus creating motivation and incentives for private companies to get support to develop systems and, in our case, incentives that can help Denmark, in order to return some of the cake to the state, that is to say, with good knowledge. And in relation to the thing about getting it out into the civilian space and ensuring that we simply have the sharpest with us, including people from consulting companies who may not be able to be hired at the Center for Cybersecurity either because there is no capital for the salaries that need to be paid or because they are strange types that cannot just sit in such a security organization I need to see that you have the will to ensure that involvement. Maybe it's just me who missed it, but that's what I hear from the experts. So we are adversely disposed, but are pleased with the response that has been received in relation to the consultation answers, and we will then become wiser during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402172746	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Next in line, sir. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402172804	I agree with those colleagues who say that the cyber-threat is extremely serious, and it is also an premise for this discussion and also for defence policy in general that there is a shift from traditional threats to cyber-threats and that dealing with them also requires a completely different way of thinking. That is why it is also true that the defence committee has agreed that something more needs to be done about this problem. We agree with that as a starting point. Then the question is whether you are on the right path, as it is in this bill. After all, the Centre for Cybersecurity is given a number of new and in several ways quite extensive powers, extensive powers in relation to legal certainty, in relation to what is considered to be personal freedom, that is to say, some of what we value very much in Danish society. This is where we really are faced with a dilemma, which I think we need to discuss a little more openly: on the one hand, the cybertrustle means that we need to use new tools in relation to it, including tools that will, like, be untraditional in terms of what we are used to, and, on the other hand, how we can maintain our privacy in all areas, in the whole area of IT. On the other hand, I also think that we need to be aware of the fact that there is also a need for legal certainty, for liberal values, which are also valid for Danish society. I think it is interesting to see the consultation answers, which I recognise have been put forward before the actual legislative proposal has been presented; therefore, some of the things that are severely criticised have been taken out because they have been taken into account, and thank you for that. It is interesting, however, that I have rarely read as clearly negative a hearing answer as this one. Pretty much all the consultation answers are critical of this, and if you look at what they're critical of, then it's very much such a fear of what this can be used for. So, when the Cybersecurity Center gets all these powers, can it be used to start prying in all sorts of personal information? Mrs. Eva Flyvholm's child's name and all that? When you say that, the government says that it is not at all what is meant, it is not what you want to do. I think that is really true, or rather said: I myself have also been in discussions when we were a member of the defence committee, and I understand some of the considerations that are coming, among other things. from the Center for Cybersecurity and also from the Department of Defense. But one just has to take into account when there is one who mistrusts, when there is some fear of what it can be used for, that is to say that one can go in and pry, and take that criticism seriously if one is to have the people's confidence in this. So you actually are, because otherwise we're never gonna get on with this. Then there will always be a cloud over; it is the police state, it is the great state that comes in and has to control citizens' freedom, etc. None of us can be interested in this, and that is why the problem with it being in the FE is there because there are some public issues in it. Then it is said that if it is moved out of the FE, it causes some other difficulties. I just can't see and don't get any examples of whether in other countries where it's moved out, it's a weaker opportunity to deal with these threats, that it's like this; or if you come up with that okay, it's FE that should still get it away, that we then at least strengthen control of the FE. I know that there's been a reinforcement. I know that there's a change, but I'm not sure it's strong enough. For example: I could read in a consultation answer from the Danish Industry that this bill will weaken supervision, because it also allows the Ministry not to follow the things that come from supervision. I could not find an answer to that in relation to the consultation answer, but we can just come back to how it is with it, in committee, that is with the whole supervision and that. But, as I said, control must be better, and so I would say that we are extremely critical of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402173329	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402173337	Thank you. The threat from cyberattacks remains at the highest level. The biggest threats to Denmark are via cyber attacks, and they come from among others Russia, China, North Korea, Iran and criminal gangs. It is not only the threat of terrorism and interference by other nations that there is a threat in cyberspace, that is to say, in relation to Danish companies, which have huge costs in connection with cyberattacks. We need to recognise that the threat from cyber attacks is real. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that priority should be given to our cyber defence capabilities. It is very positive that during this reign the government has given priority to the cyber area. The Minister of Defence has presented a strategy for cyber and information security, and funds have been prioritised for the National Centre for Cybersecurity. This bill is also part of the implementation of that strategy. The proposal extends the Cybersecurity Centre's scope for action. Criminal and foreign states are very creative in their attempts to attack Danish IT systems, and such systems can be very vulnerable if we are not equally creative in our defences. However, this is a new area, and that is why we must ensure that the Centre has a sufficient legislative basis to be able to act quickly and be able to cooperate with the companies concerned. The bill integrates businesses and the cybersecurity centre much better. The proposal allows the Centre to install the necessary defence systems so that they can respond to attacks in a timely manner. At the same time, companies will be able to use the centre for preventive purposes if they so wish. And in future it will be possible for the centre to take advantage of what is called honeypots and sinkholes. A honeypot can identify malicious attacks, and sinkholes is a data device where attacks are directed to so that they do not infect the entire system. It's important. Denmark's intelligence services must have the best possible conditions to defend us against malicious attacks, including via the Internet. We regard it as a violation of sovereignty when Denmark experiences such attacks. We should not put up with that and this proposal helps prevent it from happening. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402173623	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then the trip to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402173638	I would like to thank you for your contributions during the examination of the draft law and I would like to thank you for the broad support for the draft law. After all, we all agree that the Cybert rush has increased significantly in recent years, and the Defence Intelligence Service estimates that Denmark is facing a very high cyber threat, especially from foreign states. Both in Denmark and abroad there are numerous examples of serious cyber attacks that have had major consequences for authorities and companies. The rapid development of the threat picture means that there is a need to adapt the legislation so that the Center for Cybersecurity's capabilities to counter cyberattacks respond to the increasing threats as well as technological developments. I believe that with this bill we have found an appropriate balance between the need for legal certainty and the need to protect Denmark from cyber attacks. As the debate on the legislative proposal has shown, it also contains controversial initiatives, for example. the possibility of imposing obligations on undertakings in specific cases. But it is important not to lose sight of the goal. We have a common duty to do what we can to protect our critical infrastructure from the cyberattacks that can have such devastating consequences for society, and here the failing societies must not become the weak link in the chain. When you hear parts of the debate, it can be difficult to recognize the bill at all. One gets the impression that we want to create a monitoring society in Denmark, where there is total and uncontrolled supervision of companies and citizens, and where Cybersecurity Center, at will, forces itself to read e-mails, business secrets and patient records, and what do I know? You can also get the impression that we will allow the intelligence service to re-sell corporate data on some intelligence bazaar. Honestly, I don't know where the critics get that kind of stuff. As a liberal politician, it is infinitely far from me to legislate for a single intervention against citizens or companies, without the balance between legal certainty and the need for Community security being first considered very carefully, and that is precisely what we have done with this legislative proposal. It is important not to forget what the bill is actually about, namely to ensure that the Cybersecurity Centre is given better opportunities to protect society from the cyberattacks that can have such devastating consequences for our everyday lives, and therefore we will give the Cybersecurity Centre some very thoughtful and carefully defined options to detect and slow down the hackers. At the same time, however, we ensure that there is a very restrictive framework for which the data centre can be accessed and what it can be used for, and with supervision we ensure that there is an eye on the Centre's compliance with these rules. Danish Industry has chosen to go out with a great deal of criticism that helps create a completely erroneous impression that all sorts of companies can be forced on a far-reaching monitoring by the state. In this way, the Danish Industry also contributes to a skewed debate, and I find that very regrettable. After all, the bill will strengthen our cybersecurity, not least for the benefit of companies in Denmark. We offer an extra protection to the most social failing companies, and we even do it for free. Therefore, it would suit Danish Industry to support the work for the benefit of both companies and citizens. Danish Industry also talks about how much better it is in Sweden. I am not going to go into a debate about whether you have softer legislation in Sweden, because I hardly think it can be compared, but it would be paradoxical if high IT security were to discourage companies from investing in Denmark. After all, the bill makes it safer to operate in Denmark. I am thinking that high cybersecurity will make it more attractive to invest in Denmark, and I wish the Danish Industry supported that. After all, it was a very broad political majority that supported the then S-SF-R government when the Cybersecurity Centre was established as part of the FE. In recent defence agreements, a strengthening of the Cybersecurity Centre has been agreed again and again with a very broad majority. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the location in the FE gives the centre access to FE's unique knowledge of the most advanced cyber threats that come from abroad. Knowledge of such threats is highly qualified and would not be shared with Center for Cybersecurity if it were elsewhere. Conversely, there are very strict rules for the Centre's sharing of information with the FE, and the supervision of the intelligence services is monitoring that those rules are followed. The location at FE has served us well for years, and I find it hard to see what we can win by changing it. It is important to remember that the centre and the rest of the FE are regulated by separate laws. The Cybersecurity Centre has an open and outgoing profile, and its activities are characterised by openness, guidance and information. In addition, some organisational separation between the Centre and the commercial part of the FE is provided for in the legislation and restrictive rules apply for the exchange of information from the Centre to the intelligence service. It is also provided in the CFCS Act that the Centre complies with the principles of the Public and Administrative Law as far as possible, and this means in practice that in all decisions the Centre will assess in concrete terms whether it is possible to apply the rules of the Administrative Act. The Cyber Security Centre is subject to more intensive controls than other authorities. In fact, there is hardly a more well-controlled authority than the Cybersecurity Centre. An independent monitoring system has been set up that closely monitors the CFCS and intelligence services and, if you look at the latest exposition of the supervision, the verification of the processing of personal data in the CFCS sensor system shows precisely that the CFCS has generally observed the provisions of the legislation on the processing of personal data and the deletion of data. It is even the case that supervision has people located outside the Center for Cybersecurity, who have the authority and use the practice of going in to look at people's PCs, what they work with, all information is logged etc. Monitoring therefore has direct access to the centre's IT systems and premises, they can also ask for a cabinet to be opened and they can obtain all information. Furthermore, as a citizen, you can complain to the supervisory authority if you think that the centre is illegally processing personal data about you. I would like to return to the question of whether CFCS should not be in the hands of a civil authority. It has been tried in the past and it did not provide sufficient security. A civilian authority will not be able to obtain the same access to the after-business information that is essential for us to be protected from advanced cyber attacks. Nor would it be possible to benefit from the unique competences of the FE in the cyber area, nor would it be possible to achieve the synergies that we have today, as the Defence Intelligence Service will continue to have a significant capacity to protect the defence. That is why the then S-SF-R government decided to bring together the various authorities' efforts at the Centre for Cybersecurity at the Defence Intelligence Service. I can also mention that Britain, and most recently Canada and Australia, have organised themselves in much the same way and that NATO, moreover, highlights our model as a role model. And one more thing: the predecessor of CFCS, GovCERT, was also exempted from part of the Personal Data Act as a civil authority. We must now get to work in committee and I look forward to a thorough and constructive discussion in the Defence Committee. After all, some questions have been raised today, which are probably just a few of those that will be asked during the debate and which will be natural for us to be clarified. But let me once again thank you for your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174640	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174646	Now the Secretary of Defense says it would be much worse if we placed it under a civil authority. Well, I just have to say that there are a lot of other European countries that have put the work on cybersecurity under civilian authority and have very good experience with it. I would like to hear from the Minister for Defence whether that is how we should understand that Holland, Sweden and France and Finland, for example. has much worse cybersecurity than Denmark. I would like an answer to that because they have placed it under the authority of civil authorities. Then I would also like to hear from the Minister for Defence about what kind of critical infrastructure and society failing companies can get these orders. That is something that is also being criticised, among other things. by Danish Industry and all sorts of others. For it is very unclear who may be required to have such a box fitted from the Cybersecurity Center, if you do not want it. What kind of place is it where you can actually go in to impose it on people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174744	May I first say about the location of the centre: what we are experiencing with the cyberattacks that are taking place these days is that they come from Russia, from China and from North Korea, which did this WannaCry attack that hit the English hospital, so 16,000 planned operations and consultations had to be cancelled. They're states. And it is precisely there that the force of the location of the Cybersecurity Centre in the Defence Intelligence Service is so crucial, because information is exchanged with other countries' intelligence services. In the field of intelligence, it is regrettable that an intelligence service does not share information with a civilian authority, and this is not done for a very good reason: firstly, that the golden rules are: you cannot publish or disclose who your sources are, nor can you reveal what your working methods are. So that's why there's a very natural explanation for it. We do not have in Denmark the hacker environments that come up the size of North Korea's, Russia's, China's etc., and therefore it is just the right location that it is located in the Defence Intelligence Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174916	[Sound emission]... information with the countries that do not have such a centre lying under Defence Intelligence. After all, we are also working with the French and the Swedes and so on. about attacking here now. And I would like to repeat my question... Minister of Defence We cooperate with intelligence services). I would like to repeat my question: is it the case that the Netherlands, Sweden, France and Finland then have much worse cybersecurity than Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402174942	I think that those countries may have some hacker environments internally, which must be dealt with, whereas we do not have it in Denmark. It is possible that we have some that can put down Museum Lolland-Falster's website one afternoon, but we do not have the super-large, professional, state hacker companies that can operate with unlimited resources. That is why it is absolutely crucial that the Centre should be in the intelligence service.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175011	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175014	It is important for me to emphasise that we must so much support confidence in precisely the FE and the Cyber Security Centre. So, despite all the critical issues, it is absolutely essential that we create confidence in the two players. Because that is absolutely essential for the security of the country, and that is precisely why we are asking all the critical questions. I would just like to ask the Minister at the outset whether it is typical that the hearings are so critical across some people who normally support the government as is the case here. Because I understand from the Minister that it is a pity that, for example, DI speaks so critically. There may be a relationship of interest in one way or another, but I assume that it is also atypical for the Minister that the consultation answers across a broad spectrum are so critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175101	Well, I don't know what's going on in this area, but part of the explanation is that there are some in the industry who believe that the Cybersecurity Centre in their activities takes the bread out of their mouths and that it should all lie with the private companies. I take the opposite view, namely that the great focus we have on the cyber-russe, on hacking, on raising awareness of security procedures, etc., is precisely creating a market for private companies. What we can do and what the center can do is put these probes on the outside of the systems, which then gives a warning if there's a malware attack. Then you can call the company and say: Now you need to be aware that there are some who are attacking you at the moment. Then the company will have to decide how they react. Are they gonna shut down the system or what are they gonna do with this? It's an extra security. Then all this discussion has been raised about whether or not we want to pry in relation to the individual employees. There is, after all, a huge market today for private companies that agree with companies and contract with companies to try to attack them and try to see where the weaknesses are in their systems. So there's nothing new going on here. We are interested in society-critical companies, and these are the particularly critical companies of society, which can be imposed if, for some mysterious reason, they do not want to receive a warning when they are under malware attacks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175245	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175247	I am basically also in favour of strengthening the Cybersecurity Centre's competences and resources. That is also what is happening. But some of the criticism being raised is that the alarms and the triggers with which the Center for Cybersecurity supports companies are actually late. In other words, when you get the message, it is already out, and information has been obtained elsewhere, and therefore it will be less interesting to be part of that cooperation in some areas, I would hurry to say, because it is guaranteed that it is really interesting in other areas. Has the Minister also heard the criticisms, that is to say that the messages received from the Centre for Cybersecurity are simply discovered, that they are not current and that they have been obtained from other sources, i.e. if it is large companies that are precisely critical of infrastructure? Because then it is a bit of a problem to put resources over there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175334	I don't know if I've heard this, but it's common in politics that you can be criticized for everything, right? In other words, we are being criticised for wanting to check whether they are being attacked, and the same people who criticise us for that say that when we then check it, it is old information, by the way, and it is worth nothing at all. Well, that's just political bang talk. I think that what has shocked me in itself is that the IT security industry does not support this unequivocally and says: of course it is important. What we are concentrating on are the particularly weak sectors of society. We cannot have the power turned off; we cannot have the Dankort shut down by a hacker attack; we cannot have the hospitals unable to get into their IT systems and carry out operations. That's the kind of thing we're preoccupied with. I have said before that the intelligence service does not have so many people that they can sit and take an interest in Pedersen's bowel problems and sit and study his journal up and down. Well, it's a little parodic discussion we're out in about these subjects.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175445	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175449	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, The Secretary of Defense is very disappointed Daddy is disappointed and I think he should be careful that he is not going to look like Theresa May, who believes that her proposal is the only right one, and everyone who criticises it is just some idiots. In view of the fact that many people have criticized this, I do not think it can just stand and say that they have not understood anything at all. I think that's unwise, I just want to say that. My question is about whether we have capacity in Denmark. I know that the head of FE, Lars Findsen, has on several occasions called for more young people who will go into FE as hackers they need hackers in FE. It is reasonable to call for it, but has the Minister perhaps considered that those people who would like to get a job like that may not like to get into the FE, but that they would rather be in something more civil, and in fact, in relation to the recruitment problem, it would be an advantage to move it here from the FE? I have understood the other arguments, and that is not because what is being said is completely ridiculous. There's just that control problem that's still gone and that has something to do with when people have a suspicion that this can be abused, and people have that, you just have to take it more seriously than the government does. But I would like to hear a comment from the Minister about this recruitment problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175630	There is a great deal of talk here, and I would just like to remind you of the limitation of speaking time. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175635	In general, there is a recruitment problem, both in terms of FE and Center for Cybersecurity, but also in companies. After all, we are particularly short of graduates who have been trained in this area. It can therefore be said that we are perhaps in a rather unfortunate situation where we are all fighting for the too few experts that then exist in society. Therefore, one of the major tasks in the coming years will be to strengthen training in these areas. In concrete terms, in relation to the hackers that the FE is asking for, the interest has proved immense in getting on the education that lies in FE's work. So, in concrete terms, there are no recruitment problems for the so-called hacker academy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175737	The questioner? There's nothing left. Then I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175810	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402175818	After all, the question of the conditions of children in the asylum system is regularly raised in the political debate, and the motion for a resolution tabled here today is indeed an up-to-date re-submission of an earlier proposal, namely B 142 from the 2017-18 parliamentary year. Now the proposers are trying again, and I can only welcome it, because it also gives me the opportunity to clarify once again the crucial differences between the immigration policy which at least parts of the Left want to pursue, and then the firm and strict course that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, is guaranteeing. First of all, of course, it is important for the government that children in the accommodation system are properly treated and guaranteed the rights to which they are entitled, and fortunately that is the case today too. At the same time, however, it is also the government's view that our accommodation system should reflect the situation in which asylum seekers find themselves. Foreigners who have been refused asylum must leave Denmark after the expiry of the period of leave, including families with children. Therefore, foreigners staying illegally in Denmark must stay at a home or exit centre until they leave or can be sent out by Denmark. In my view, it is quite unacceptable for rejected asylum seekers to choose not to comply with a requirement to return home and, by that decision, to take their children hostage. I believe that parents are obliged to take responsibility for the family moving forward in their lives when they have ended up in a situation where they are staying in a country in which they have no right to be in. It is not good for the children's well-being to stay in a country where they do not have a future, and the consideration that the children's future is in the home country and not in Denmark, of course the accommodation system must also support, not the opposite. As I said, this motion for a resolution is an updated re-submission of an earlier resolution and the proposal was then rejected. The proposers continue to want the government to ensure that a comprehensive plan is drawn up for improving the well-being of children in the Danish asylum system. The plan must include: ensure that the Foreigners' Board takes greater account of the child's best interests when the Board makes administrative decisions to move families into the accommodation system. Let me repeat what I said at the time, namely that frankly, I believe that the resolution represents a lack of insight into the work of our authorities and asylum operators. The Foreigners' Agency is already aware of minimising the number of movements in the accommodation system, but our accommodation system is now built up in such a way that the accommodation of asylum seekers is targeted at the asylum phase in which they are located. This means that we operate with a variety of types of centre, including a reception centre, accommodation centres, a home travel centre and two exit centres. This in itself means that asylum seekers will have to move centres during their time in the accommodation system as their asylum case is dealt with. Asylum seekers who are granted asylum in Denmark will, as a rule, only have to move once, namely from the reception centre to a living centre until they are located in a municipality. On the other hand, applicants who are refused asylum will be able to experience more movements if they do not help to leave Denmark. After all, the aim is that rejected asylum seekers actually comply with the decisions taken by the competent asylum authorities for the sake of their families, whose future is then in another country. However, in a slightly larger perspective, there is also a consideration of a stable Danish asylum system which, for a period of time, must be able to provide protection to people as long as it is needed. And that is what the government wants the housing system to support as a whole. If you take a closer look at the practice of the National Immigration Agency, you will be taken when you move asylum seekers between residence centres, for example. As a result of the closure of a centre, account shall be taken, as far as possible, of any particular circumstances of the residents, e.g.: health or social conditions. After all, the decreasing number of asylum seekers accommodated means that by the end of April 2019 there will be 14 asylum centres in operation, and this should be compared to the fact that 98 asylum centres were in operation when the pressure on the asylum system peaked at the beginning of 2016. The many closures of asylum centres have necessarily led to the relocation of residents; it simply cannot be otherwise. However, when moving families with children from an asylum centre to close, the Foreigners' Authority attaches the weight, if possible, to moving residents to a nearby centre with the same operator, where children will be able to continue in the same school and in the same leisure activities. Finally, it is possible to move from one asylum centre to another for example. to maintain order at a center or on the basis of wishes of the residents themselves. Movements are therefore a basic requirement of the Danish asylum system, which we will not escape if we want a well-functioning housing system and a system that at the same time supports the firm and consistent immigration policy. Of course, this is something the government wants and wants to be the guarantor of. Let me stress once again that when families with children are moved to an exit centre, this is because parents do not participate in the exit and refuse to go home, even if they are not allowed to stay in this country. I therefore believe that, as a starting point, it is parents' responsibility if their children do not thrive during their stay in the accommodation system, and we must therefore stick to that. Then the proposers also propose that families should be accommodated in specially established accommodations outside asylum centres. It is already the case today that asylum seekers have the opportunity to move in a private accommodation outside asylum centres if they fulfil a number of conditions. As far as the rejected asylum seekers are concerned, the government is concerned that they leave immediately or are transferred to a home or exit centre. These foreigners have no legal residence and therefore no future in Denmark. We should not give an unnecessary incentive to these foreigners to discourage their deployment, because a life in a dwelling outside the asylum centre had to be seen as a real alternative to returning home and creating a future for themselves and his family. Otherwise, we risk precisely what the proposers would otherwise want to avoid, namely that children are kept in a hopeless limbo without the future of their own parents, and, moreover, with our support. The proposers also point out that the authorities must take into account the possibilities of self-households when moving between centres. Today it is the case that asylum seekers, as a starting point, live in a self-residence centre, while their asylum case is being dealt with, which means that they themselves can handle shopping and cooking. Asylum seekers who receive a definitive refusal of asylum and who do not leave within the period of leave will be transferred to the Avnstrup Home Travel Centre, where there is a feeding system. If you are involved in your departure, you are allowed to stay at the return-travel centre until the exit. If you do not cooperate with the authorities on your departure, you will be transferred to an exit centre where there is also a feeding system. The government believes that there should be a clear indication that rejected asylum seekers are no longer welcome in Denmark and must go home, and therefore this group is not offered self-residence. The authors also point out that in the case of relocations, the authorities must take account of children's access to school. After all, it is important to emphasise that Danish legislation ensures that all asylum-seekers at the age of compulsory education, that is. from 6 to 16 years of age, like Danish children, have the right to receive education. And let me also stress that all education must be organized on the basis of the particular situation of each child and in order to care for the child's best interests. Asylum applicant children can also receive education in the ordinary primary school, regardless of the type of centre they are accommodated in. However, this requires the accommodation operator to request it or search the children for it and the municipal school authorities to approve it. It is actually the case that a great many asylum children of compulsory education attend the Danish primary school. It is important for the government that children of rejected asylum seekers can continue to go to school and participate in activities that ensure them a meaningful everyday life, but whether this teaching takes place in the municipal public school, a centre school, a private school or a special school, I do not really think that is crucial at all. The crucial thing must be that the education offered is organized in such a way that it takes into account the specific situation of asylum seekers and that it is in line with what is generally required of them. And, of course, it is important to bear in mind that asylum seekers are in all cases offered training which corresponds to primary education. Finally, the proposers mention a number of articles dealing with the general well-being of asylum seekers. It is important for me to stress once again that parents are always responsible for the well-being and well-being of their own children here in Denmark. If parents are unable to carry out that task, we obviously have a social system that supports it, and this also applies to children at exit centres who are illegally staying in Denmark. The obligation of the Foreigners' Board also includes social measures, assistance and support. In addition, the providers of accommodation must pay attention to the physical and mental health of the children and, in addition, operators must be given special increased notification obligations under the Services Act. Finally, according to the Service Act, the municipalities have a general obligation to supervise the conditions of children under 18 who are staying in the municipality. This supervisory obligation covers all children, whether or not they are legally resident. And this means that if a municipality becomes aware of children who are miserable or otherwise in an inappropriate development, then the municipality is, as a rule, obliged to take action in accordance with the principles of the Services Act, if this will not be possible within the framework of the Aliens Act. In other words, the relevant authorities will intervene if children do not thrive in Denmark, even in the case of a child at an asylum centre. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that the National Council for Foreign Affairs is already focusing on ensuring that children in the accommodation system are not subjected to unnecessary relocations. Having said that, the government still insists that there must be a difference between asylum seekers in Denmark or whether asylum seekers have been refused and illegally staying in Denmark and that the accommodation conditions offered must support this crucial difference. We simply have a duty to avoid parents choosing to keep their children in a hopeless future. With that, I can safely say that the government does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181116	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181119	Thank you. I cannot say that the Minister's reply surprised me. She has made it a trademark for herself to be tough in the felt in all these questions and the harder the better. But what we are concerned with is that the children who are there should not suffer the fact that there are these conditions at the Travel Centre Soulsmark and other asylum centres. Then you can discuss who's to blame for that. What matters to us is that it is not the children who have to suffer from this. I know the Minister disagrees very much with that. She doesn't really care if the kids get any worse. the fact that you cannot have a self-care team, which is a very important part of this and that they have made a report, as I know will be published later this week, and that the Red Cross, which has its finger on the pulse of many of these questions, is particularly critical of the children's well-being at the asylum centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181253-2	Now, sir. Holger K. Nielsen himself is in favour of the terms with which he refers to me. I will not go into that at all. Having said that, I would like to say that I actually believe that we can vouch for and be satisfied with the conditions on which children, for example, are. Travel centre Sjælsmark has. There is education, there are leisure activities and, in general, the framework is in order. What we can't do for these kids is take the yoke off their shoulders that they have parents who have put them in this situation, but we can do so much else, and I think we are doing that today. That is why I think we can be familiar with the conditions at the Travel Centre Zealand and, of course, also at the other asylum centres and exit centres that we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181359	But the studies that are being carried out show the opposite. I have to say that it is interesting, though not surprising, that the Minister does not really care about the things that, among other things, are. The Red Cross presents where you can see that the children are miserable. That such a small wish as a self-husband, that is, that they are allowed to eat their dinner together as a family like other families, cannot be fulfilled, is what is so petty in the way you do politics here in Denmark, where it turns out that being tough in the felt towards foreigners is more important than the consideration for those children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181447	So now we have a fundamental difference of opinion on these matters, and if Mr. Holger K. Nielsen wanted to read through these reports, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen therefore also encounters the fact in the reports that conditions are not critical in this way. It is true that some want to have refrigerators in the rooms and that some want to be able to cook themselves, but basically the framework is in order. What makes some of these children miserable or at least at risk is that they are put in this situation, but they are by their parents because their parents do not follow the authorities' instructions to leave Denmark. We can't take that yoke off these kids' shoulders. We can do so much else, and I think we do too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181543	There are no more questions, so I thank the Minister. The next speaker is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402181607	Today we must discuss whether it is a good idea to require the government to draw up a plan for the well-being of children in the Danish asylum system, both for children of asylum seekers and for children of rejected asylum seekers. There is no doubt that children of asylum seekers generally have and have had harsh living conditions. Some have fled war and destruction with their parents, others are children of migrants who, for understandable reasons, are trying to make a better life here in Europe. But of course, no matter what, children must be treated properly while they are in our country... I think we can all agree on that. With this motion for a resolution, the SF is proposing to instruct the government to draw up an overall plan for children's conditions across asylum phases and center types. This can, for example, be done by introducing a ceiling on how many times a child must be moved between the centres, and the plan must also ensure that self-households are introduced, and the plan must ensure access to external internship, work and primary school. I understand very well the idea behind the proposal, namely that it can never be the children's fault that they are staying in the Danish asylum system, and so I agree with the proposers that we can do more to protect children in our asylum system, as well as at the exit centres. But I think that there are some places where the chain jumps off and where the proposers may come around a little easily. We mean, for example: It is reasonable that people can travel to Denmark, seek asylum and start working without having a legal residence. Firstly, there is the risk that many more people will grow up in Danish asylum centres if this becomes reality, and secondly, we do not think it makes any sense that people who do not yet have a residence permit in Denmark are already getting a work permit. However, we agree with the proposers on an important point: the children of our exit centres can be better protected. For example, when I... read the report by the Ombudsman on Soulsmark, I noted that the children suffer from the general fact that their parents are not legally resident in Denmark that is obvious and logical. Of course, it affects children that parents do not work and that they are in an eternal conflict with the authorities. However, I also noted that the Ombudsman points out that conditions at the Travel Centre Soulsmark can be well discussed and that they can be arranged in a way that better protects children. We in the Social Democratic Party would very much like to be involved in this discussion. We dare not put our heads on the block and guarantee that the current government has found the right balance at that centre. The Ombudsman himself points out that improvements could be made in the opening hours of the canteen and the composition of the food, by providing written information on the provision of food to children, providing refrigerators, microwaves, etc. and establish additional offers of activities for children after the closing hours of leisure clubs. All this could be relevant. But we just don't have to tell each other that these changes alone will give the children the life they deserve. After all, they will still grow up with parents who live without a legal residence, and that is the basic problem. Finally, when the authors of the motion refer to wordings that must always be taken into account in the best interests of the child, we are of course entirely in agreement with that, but it is already clear from Danish legislation. Of course, we cannot just sit back as a community and say that this is the responsibility of the parents, and the children will have to sail their own lake. That is also why our social policy already applies to asylum centres. Our municipalities are already doing an extensive and fine job today. Monitoring is being carried out and notifications are being made, and support measures are being initiated in accordance with the legislation we have in Denmark. It may be relief or voluntary placement or, in the final analysis, compulsory detention, not to punish the parents, but to help the children. Of course, it cannot be different. Such is the legislation in Denmark and it applies throughout Denmark. In those words, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182011	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marie Krarup as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182029	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we fully agree with the proposers that it is bad for children to have an uncertain and unresolved situation. It is clear that it is bad for a long time to live in an exit centre. We just think it is important to remember that it is the parents who are responsible for it. Parents are free to return to the country from which they come and to start building a life there that will be more healthy for their children. There is much evidence that parents use their children as hostages. The proposers say that it is the Danish state that is responsible for the psychic suffering of children or their difficult situation and that it is a disgrace on Denmark. To that I would say that I totally disagree with the authors of the motion. This is the responsibility of the parents, and the parents have the opportunity to change the situation of the children. If the Danish state does not put its policy through in reality to pursue a strict foreign policy and to take seriously the fact that the people who cannot have a residence in Denmark are going home, then in practice we have opened the country to all those who are willing to use their children as hostages in order to extend their stay or stay in Denmark. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party, we call on the proposers to address their criticism to the parents, who should take better care of their children, and we call on the proposers not to encourage parents to go forward in their mistreatment of their children by making proposals that might give them a belief that it would be possible to change their residence permit, because that should of course not be the case. So we cannot support the SF's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182254	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Mads Fuglede as rapporteur for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182311	Thank you for the floor. We agree with the proposers that consideration of the best interests of the child should of course be given high priority when the authorities make decisions in the asylum system. That is also the case today. At the same time, however, it is also the government's view that the accommodation system should reflect the situation in which asylum seekers find themselves. This means that if you are granted asylum in Denmark, you have to move only once, from the reception centre to a living centre before you are placed in the municipality. On the other hand, if you have been definitively refused asylum and refuse to return home, you will be transferred to an exit centre. As I have said a few times before from up here, it is very sad that children must grow up in an exit centre, but we must not forget that it is parents who have chosen the situation in which they keep their children, rather than going home. That is why we also believe that there must be a difference between the accommodation conditions that we offer, depending on whether you have been granted asylum, whether you are an asylum seeker with a pending case, or whether you have been refused asylum seeker and are thus staying illegally in Denmark. This means, for example, that asylum seekers in residence centres have the opportunity to do their own shopping and cooking while rejected asylum seekers are transferred to exit centres where there is a feeding system. Of course, the best thing would be if asylum seekers refused to go home. Unfortunately, this is not always the case, and this puts children in a difficult situation. It is our responsibility that, despite their situation, children have access to schooling, leisure activities and play. But it is the responsibility of the parents alone for the children to stay in an exit centre. Instead, if we allowed refused asylum seekers to have access to cash benefits and to live outside the centres, it would not only remove their incentive to go home, but it would also make it more attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182505	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten • De Rød-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182521	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Holger K. Nielsen to resubmit his proposal from the last session to instruct the government to draw up a plan for greater consideration of the well-being of children at Danish asylum centres. In our view, this proposal is so obvious that it should be able to be adopted unanimously, because who can be against improving the well-being of children, even within the framework that now exists? We can only be against this if we want to take the children hostage in an attempt to pressure the children's parents to do something specific, for example. to sign that they voluntarily return to a country where they rightly or wrongly fear persecution, torture or, at worst, death. In other words, we understand that a majority in the Folketing wants to sanction those parents who do not follow the decisions of the authorities, even if we do not believe that the sanctions lead to the desired objective. However, we do not understand if the same majority does not want to do anything to prevent these sanctions from affecting innocent children. In the Enhedslisten we simply do not want to be involved in taking children hostage. Some of the proposals that have been made by several people and mentioned in the proposal are almost ridiculously small. It is, for example, that you... should be allowed to cook your own food, or that there for example. must be a maximum of how many times a child can be moved around between different asylum centres. Does anyone seriously believe that the right to cook their own food is what should have a refugee couple with two small children from Syria fleeing from the Islamic State to choose a hopeless stay at an asylum centre rather than to go home? That's almost ridiculous. So, you see it: they sit there at the asylum centre and then they think that we should go home now, and then a proposal is adopted that they should cook their own food, and then they say that, well, then they will sit here for 20 years instead. Of course not. The right to cook and eat with their children is not what makes people choose a hopeless existence at an asylum centre. And when you say that, it's all because you're looking for some means to take the kids hostage against the parents. In his comments on the proposal, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen states that it is the situation at the centres themselves which is the main source of dissatisfaction for the children and that the most effective solution would be to set up housing for the children's families outside the centres, which in parentheses has nothing to do with residence permits. We in the Enhedslisten are in complete agreement with this, and it is also in line with the proposals that we have made together, most recently to leave refugee families with children at the Travel Centre Soulsmark outside this centre, as it was in the past. That is precisely why we may also be somewhat sceptical about whether it is possible to significantly improve the well-being of children in Danish asylum centres with some • and I quote from the proposal • very simple tools, as the comments say. But it's gotta come down to a test. And when it comes to innocent children and babies, any very small improvement is a step forward in relation to the current situation, a situation in which we not only accept that children are being harmed for life, but also, as a society, we are undermining our own humanistic foundations. Thank you again to the authors of the motion. The Enhedslisten can support the proposal and we should welcome the alternative and say that they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182927	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402182937	Thank you for the floor. It is important to understand how to qualify for a stay at an exit centre. This is done by first refusing asylum and then refusing to take the consequence of the fact that you have no residence in Denmark and travel to a country where you have a residence permit. It could, for example, be done. be a country where you are a citizen, but I don't want to interfere in that. If you and your family have passed these steps, it's the exit center you'll be accommodated at. I think it is already unacceptable that the decisions taken by the authorities should not be complied with, and I think it is even more unacceptable that one should take one's children hostage and give them a worse and more uncertain life than they could have if their parents settled permanently in a country where they have a residence and work permit. It is not the responsibility of the Danish state or society that children thrive when the parents live well and have the skills necessary to ensure welfare. It is parents' responsibility and they abandon their children when they let them live in a limbo instead of going to a country where they are citizens. In fact, I find it strange that we should have this discussion at all. It is as if there could be doubts about where the responsibility was located. There shouldn't be. But it is clear that when our society has for so many years not emphasized the classic virtues of the citizen and has thus failed to adapt to concepts of responsibility and duty, it must go wrong. To give in to blackmail is not only wrong on the principle that blackmail should not pay; it will also be a huge failure in maintaining the last remnants of responsibility and duty in society. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402183205	Thank you to LA's rapporteur. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402183224	Thank you for the floor. As the Minister has said, this is a matter that is regularly raised. And that's really fine, because it's an important topic. This gives us the opportunity to discuss how important it is for our asylum legislation to be enforced and respected. I can understand the background of the authors of this motion for a resolution, because there are good intentions behind it. I agree that when it comes to children, we have a special responsibility for their well-being. Because, of course, we all think that the children should be well. They are irresponsible in their parents' power struggle with Danish legislation. Generally speaking, far fewer asylum seekers come to Denmark. With legislation, we have made it less attractive to look for Denmark, and although the number is relatively low compared to previous years, we have received around 3,500 asylum seekers in the last few years. That's a lot anyway. Those who come here we treat properly, both those who receive asylum and those who are denied asylum. Most recently, we have been told by the Ombudsman that children in Soulsmark live in conditions in accordance with the UN Convention on Children and the European Convention on Human Rights. But there are just some things we need to bring. These people have had their asylum applications examined by all the bodies that exist and they are not entitled to asylum. It is people who are not legally entitled to stay in Denmark. They have had the opportunity to appeal and yet they oppose the decision taken. The Danish state stands ready with help and support for all who volunteer to return. They have fine opportunities to build a home and a life up somewhere else in the world, but instead of taking responsibility for their children, parents have chosen to do exactly the opposite. The fact is that in very many cases children do not need to spend much time in asylum and exit centres. One of the main reasons why some cases are dragging on is the lack of parental cooperation. As the Minister said, the Immigration Authority is already aware of keeping the number of relocations to a minimum. When families are moved to exit centres, it is because parents refuse to go home, even if they do not have the right to stay in this country. And let us face it: if we give in to one, two or three cases, it sets a precedent for other rejected asylum seekers to oppose the law. It is clear to everyone that children do not benefit from being kept in an uncertain waiting position by their parents, and the uncertainty must be terrible. I was at my birthday this weekend and met someone who works there who told me about the conditions, and it wasn't nice to hear about it. But the answer is not to reward parents who use their children as a means of exerting pressure to stay. Of course, it makes a great impression when children are miserable. The children cannot decide for themselves whether to go home. Nor do they have any responsibility in the situation in which they find themselves. The children are here, and that is why we do not believe that the situation is sustainable if the children are seriously harmed by it. That is why we Conservatives are also in dialogue with our mayor in the area around the children's relationship. I admit that this is a difficult balance, because the idea has never been that families should live there for years. They have to go home, and they are free to do so. If you make it too attractive to be here, yes, they won't go home. The motion for a resolution tabled by the SF does not make much sense, since in practice the proposers will reward these families for their stubbornness and for opposing the decision taken in their case. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402183654	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402183711	Thank you. And thank you for those many remarks. I should like to start by saying that the Radicals have asked me to salute and say that they can support this proposal. It cannot be said that it has been a positive reception of this proposal. Much of the argument against it has gone on, as Mr. Naser Khader mentioned that you will reward some parents that you will give a reward if this is adopted. I think it is a strange term, in relation to what those people are facing at the moment, to say that they are getting a reward, for example, by allowing them to cook their own food, for example, that children are getting a little better education. The fact that it will then be a reward, which means that they will be less likely to go home, is, of course, the thinking which, in our opinion, is completely strange and completely wrong and also completely counterproductive in relation to getting something done about these problems. It is said that the families concerned can go home and then they can help build the country from which they come. I think most of us agree that this is the way it should be, so that you should go back where you come from, if you have the opportunity. But we know that not everyone has the opportunity to do so, that not all countries will accept these people. But the fact is that to the extent that the children are miserable, that they have mental problems, it will then be more difficult for the parents to go back. After all, it is not an incentive for parents to go back, that their children are miserable here in Denmark and get psychological scars after what they experience, for example. in Soulsmark. I simply think that this is an argument which is based, as it were, on the fact that now we have to punish these parents. These parents don't want to do what we want, and that's why we have to punish them, and that's what becomes the starting point. And then they say that it will be a reward to do a little better for the children, where we like to turn it around and say that the starting point here is that these are the children it is about, which several studies show distrust in the places in question. Danish Refugee Aid has conducted an inquiry into this, like the Ombudsman and on several occasions also the Red Cross. As I mentioned earlier in a brief comment to the Minister, the Red Cross has made a completely new analysis which, as far as I know, will be published here later this week, where the same depressing conclusions as have been known in the past have been reached, i.e. that there is a marked distrust among these children. We just can't be familiar with that. I do not think we can be familiar with this as a society which, as it were, gives priority, if I may say so, to humanity and to children, and as a welfare society in which we have always given priority to solidarity in relation to each other. We cannot be familiar with this, because what we are doing is that we are saying that we are completely indifferent to the way those children thrive; we are completely indifferent to it because we do not like the parents that those parents do not do as they are told. You can have different opinions about that, but should the children suffer? That is where the whole discussion comes up. And we don't think that's fair. What we are proposing here is also not something very, very radical. After all, a comprehensive plan is being drawn up on how to improve conditions for children in the various centres; a plan for what goes back to the ministry and thinks: how can we do better for the children? And we have a number of proposals on what is, moreover, very much in line with what has been proposed from among others. The Red Cross side, namely better school conditions, better day nurseries, self-households, etc., which should be taken in. We propose that the government, the Ministry, should begin to turn this around a little more and look at it a little more from, if I may say so, the height of children, also from the point of view that the best interests of children are of course important in the children's convention we have also signed. So in other words, there are, we think, quite clear arguments for tackling this. And I simply do not understand that parties here in the Folketing will be aware of the fact that children are miserable at the centres, because you can make quite a small effort to improve it perhaps not enough, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentioned, and we can take that debate, but we could still take those small steps, as many have suggested. But not even that, that is to say, allow you to cook your own food. So little one thing one will not allow, so petty we have become in this country on the basis of some notion that if we allow the families to do so, they will have a greater incentive to stay here in Denmark. I'm sorry, it's really grotesque that you think like that, and it's wrong. And that is why we would hope to get away from the way of thinking and, in other words, to take it more seriously that children should not be punished for what their parents are doing. We don't do that, and we don't have to do that either. After all, it is an inhuman way of dealing with children that they should be punished for what their parents do. That's what you do here. That is a quite obvious argument on the part of the majority here. We can't understand it, we're against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184405	Thank you to the rapporteur. No, we are just returning, for there has been a question from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184413	Now there are more who say that they think the children should be treated properly and so on. etc., and then they explain why it should not happen here and that it is the parents' fault that it should not happen here. But I would really like to ask: Holger K. Nielsen rather more ideologically behind this, in other words compared to the fact that almost whatever, the children are the parents' responsibility, and if the parents want to treat their children badly, do we have to put up with it? Does the rapporteur also see it in such a slightly broader perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184454	Yeah, well, at least you could say that it's a perspective that you use in relation to these people. I know that this is not something that is otherwise used as a starting point for treating children. As I said, it is not normal for the children, if I may say so, to be punished for the sins of their parents. But just in this case of asylum seekers, it is as if all the norms that are otherwise there are being shorted out. There is, of course, some sort of ideological approach, where the Minister and the majority of this Parliament have made it a test for their political ability that they can be as tough as possible towards asylum seekers. They don't care about the kids. They don't care about the kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184554	When everyone says that they want to do good for children, you should think that everyone would do such small things, which are of course not crucial to whether people choose to sit in an exit centre for a year more or less if it was an improvement for children. But then I thought back to the debate we had in here in Parliament and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also remembers, of course, about the right of reproof, where there was the attitude of the whole bourgeois music that the parents should only be allowed to beat up their children, and that we should not interfere with that. It is such a review of the attitude of accepting that children suffer if parents either have the right to it or are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184642	That is true; it is very good to be brought to the attention of the old debate. After all, it was the Danish People's Party and Mr. Søren Krarup and the majority who were very concerned that parents should be allowed to beat their children. Fortunately, they did not get a majority in favour of it. But it is true that this debate also gives some memories of what we are seeing today, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184710	There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184725	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to begin with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402184752	I would like to start by thanking you for the opportunity to discuss the challenges actually faced by the group of people with ethnic minority backgrounds. There should be no doubt that the government in no way tolerates anyone in Danish society being subjected to violence, threats or other degradation because of their sexual orientation. When you come to Denmark, you have to adapt, and that also applies when it comes to accepting other people's sexuality. Unfortunately, however, it is a fact that lgbtq people with immigrant backgrounds all too often meet with prejudice and violence. For example: 22 percent say. of minority ethnic men, that homosexuality should not be accepted in society and that there is 39 per cent. among minority ethnic people who regard homosexuality as a religious sin, and as much as 54 per cent. Consider homosexuality unnatural. We also know that the pressure often comes from their own families and the ethnic minority environment, and that the violence that affects this group is very often honorary. So, of course, we have to offer this minority background group, i.e. lgbtq people with minority backgrounds, a safe place to be when it's needed. They must also have relevant and qualified advice and support, and there are already a number of offers that extend to this group. In 2018, we presented in the government an action plan on security and well-being for Glbti people. It is anchored by the Minister for Gender Equality and, of course, the action plan also includes the group of people with ethnic minority backgrounds. There are also initiatives in the action plan that are specifically targeted at ethnic minorities, and we support, among other things, those. associations which work to improve conditions for immigrants in particular. The action plan also provides funds for cooperation and knowledge sharing between the various actors in the field, for example: Also RED Safehouse. Today, when we discuss the need for a special crisis centre, there are two things that I think are important. One thing is whether it is a good idea to separate minority ethniclgbtq people from other young people with similar problems about honor-related conflicts and negative social control. The second point is whether the scale of the problem is large enough to be able to bear the creation of a special housing offer, or whether the resources are better spent on addressing the challenges of this target group within the infrastructure that we already have. I know from the RED Centre against honour-related conflicts that they are already, of course, already accepting minority ethniclgbtq people both in their counselling offer and in their secured accommodation offer. It is RED's assessment that both the safehouse part and the counselling offer can accommodate the target group, and at RED the starting point is to meet the individual with openness, respect and recognition completely regardless of gender, sexuality and identity. REDs are not targeted heterosexuals. In fact, RED points out some of the benefits that will be by having both lgbtq youth together with other young people who are affected by serious honour-related conflicts. Among other things: a common stay can help to mutually reduce prejudices between these groups. It is also RED's experience that young people are strengthened by the fact that they have common challenges rather than focusing on the differences that may exist between them. But of course we must ensure that the existing offers have the necessary understanding, including the necessary professional knowledge and experience to meet the specific needs of the target group, and I also know that RED fully agrees with that. After all, we do not have specific figures for the number of people with ethnic minority backgrounds who will need to stay at the crisis centre. Since jumping out for many people will be associated with sanctions and severe reactions in both themselves and their loved ones, it is probably also a dark number in this area. But RED Safehouse has informed me that in the last four years they have had on average five residents enrolled a year withlgbtq problems. For this reason too, I do not think there is a need for a special crisis centre for this particular target group. The number is simply too small. So, to sum up, we already have a well-functioning infrastructure with shelters in relation to, for example. RED Safehouse, and they consider that they can embrace the particular challenges of this target group, and even point to the benefit of not isolating this particular group of young people at special centres. We are dealing with a target group where the number at the crisis centre today is probably very, very limited. That is why my very clear position is that we must continue to work within the framework we already have, where RED Safehouse constitutes a nationwide crisis offer that embraces all minority young people who experience honor-related conflicts or negative social control, regardless of their gender, sexuality or gender identity. In addition, we need targeted activities, for example. in the form of support for some of the associations working with these areas, also have a special focus on precisely the group to which very relevant questions are being asked here today, namely LGBTq-young people with ethnic minority backgrounds. So that is why the government cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled, but that does not change the fact that we fully agree that it is a group that must be supported in every way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185514	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first questioner is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185520	I am aware of the Minister's argument that there is too small a group to deal with here. I think that was the very precise words of the Minister. It was simply too small a group to set up a special shelter. Then I note that the Minister has approached RED Safehouse and refers to their view that their offer is sufficient. But if you ask the people that this proposal is actually about, that is, people who have both minority backgrounds and are lgbtq+ people, then they actually say that the safehouse that is with ED is not enough. For what one has to understand is that they have some problems about their minority background, but that they also have some particular issues such as lgbtq+ people, and this is not necessarily compatible with an offer that is built on addressing heterosexual people. And there are actually stories that some of the people who have approached the centres of crisis that exist there have experienced discrimination. So I am a little surprised because the Minister says that the group is too small, but the Minister is always talking about how much the government will actually do to help. Why does this not extend to a small group?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185649	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185650	It also extends to a small group. But no matter how you turn it around, it is a small group, if it is true that there have been about five enrolled on average per year. Years through the last four years. So it's a small group, no matter how you turn it and turn it. Having said that, I must simply say that I really take to heart the argument put forward by RED Safehouse about how important it is also to gain understanding among these groups, which are both pinched, having problems and are exposed to, for example, social control and honor-related conflicts, and it doesn't matter what sexuality it is based on and that if you keep these groups apart, it can actually help build prejudices or perhaps hold onto some of the ideas and prejudices that some might have. I therefore think that the argument from RED Safehouse is very, very strong when it comes to saying that some of what we want to break down in Danish society is prejudice, and therefore it is good that RED Safehouse is also involved. So you can turn it as you like, and I hear that Mrs Pernille Skipper does. Mrs Pernille Skipper could also turn it around in such a way that the government wants to do everything we possibly can to break down the prejudices that exist and help these people. But I am well aware that it is just not the agenda of the Enhedslisten. It has never been, but it could be that it was one of the times when one should actually try to take it into account a tiny bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185831	I say thank you and you, too. Firstly, the Minister refers to some figures relating to five people who have approached the specific shelters in the RED Safehouse. But this is precisely about the fact that some of the people involved have cried out loud and said that those who do not feel welcome, and it is precisely about the fact that when they say that they do not feel welcome, it does not matter what sexuality they really have. It may well be that it should not matter what sexuality or gender identity you have, but it is not. They do not experience that, which is why we need help. So the Minister can climb up on such a principle horse, but should of course come down to reality. The minister says here that we have to have those people at RED Safehouse shelters, because that is how we break down prejudices among the others. Should I understand that the Minister thinks that, despite the fact that this is not necessarily the best for them according to the people involved, they must be treated as guinea pigs in order to break down prejudices in others?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402185939	Listen, Mrs. Pernille Skipper. We fully agree that this is problematic, and I agree with Enhedslisten that this is problematic and that this is something we want to support. When I stand here and actually try to meet the Enhedslisten, I honestly think it is quite nice that you are then accepted with one: yes, yes, thank you and in the same way, and the Minister can just see and the indifference there is. That is not what we are talking about at all. What we are actually talking about is that we take this issue seriously, Mrs Pernille Skipper. What I sometimes find so awkward is that, in its eagerness to constantly try to be an opposition at all, none of the arguments that we actually put forward can be taken in at all. As far as I am concerned, it is absolutely crucial that we help to break down prejudice. You can choose to see this in two ways, and I can easily hear how Mrs Pernille Skipper sees it. By building up a centre for itself, I think that when it comes to prejudice, we are helping to maintain and build up the prejudices where we want to break down prejudices. I hope we can agree on that, and I hear Mrs Pernille Skipper say that it is important to break down prejudices. But you don't do that by saying that everything must always be separated. But this is done by working with it in a serious, proper and respectful way, and that is what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190118	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190121	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for your speech and answers to questions. In the action plan to promote security, well-being and equal opportunities for people with disabilities, it has been mentioned that one third of these people with a double minority have suicidal thoughts, but concrete options for action to ensure greater security, for example. With this initiative, I don't really read the plan. So I would just like to hear from the Minister what concrete initiatives are targeting precisely this dual minority that is in the spotlight.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190203-2	Now it is the case that much of this is in the area of the Minister for Gender Equality, and I hope you have respect for that. Having said that, I know that it is one of the things that is a big focus on, both at RED Safehouse, but that there is also a big focus on it in general. I can just say for my part that I certainly want us to do everything we possibly can to support some of the associations that are actually helping these groups, and that is what we are doing. I am well aware that this has been done in the past by means of a pool of rates, but we all know what it will look like in the future. However, there will still be other opportunities to support some of the associations working with the group here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190249	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190251	Thank you for that and thank you for mentioning the associations. What we know is that long-term operating aid for these associations makes a big difference. However, I do not hear that the Minister has been given any readiness to speak about what concrete initiatives there are. In concrete terms, it will be rejected, but I would hope that the Minister will join us for the next time we have a debate, that there will be a readiness. Having said that, is the correspondence that has been with RED Safehouse anything we can get sent? Because I cannot really find it in the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190323-2	It will certainly be the case that we can always ask questions about a resolution such as this between the first and second readings. That's one of the things you want to do. could ask for a transmission of both the concrete measures that must be taken, but of course also the requests that have been made from RED Safehouse and the comments that RED Safehouse may have in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190354	Then we can thank the Minister, and we will begin the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190410	The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution on the creation of a crisis centre targeted at double-minority-lgbtq people. In the social democracy, however, we can be concerned that this may prove to be an excessively generalising approach to residents and future residents of the country's shelters. Our view is that people with a lgbtq background are as different as everyone else and that there can be many other things that help bind us together as people. So this is not a proposal that we can support. Instead, we propose that there should basically be more seats in the crisis centres, so that no one in the future is rejected because of lack of space. We also propose that we establish free and emergency psychological assistance for all residents of the shelters. It is a project we have had in the past through a stake pool project, and we could see from that project at the time that it was something that really helped the residents with the challenges they face, and it was something that helped the victims of violence break the pattern of violence. We also believe that the proposal with free and emergency psychological assistance will be something that will help victims of violence with a lgbtq background. In order to respond to the problems presented by the motion for a resolution, the Social Democratic Party is sympathetic to the fact that some of the country's crisis centres can specialise in the challenges faced by dual minorities. It may be in relation to specialised telephone advice and guidance, or it may be transfer from one crisis centre to another where there are more specialised staff. We would therefore like to take this opportunity to call on the government to carry out a review of our crisis centres in order to determine whether there is an urgent problem with double-minority-lgbtq people in the existing crisis centres and also to identify what is actually the procedure today if and when problems arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190617	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190619	Now I pressed in before the Minister, well no, the rapporteur may at some point perhaps minister came up with the absolute last sentence that one will examine it further. In fact, I think that is the reason why I am asking a perhaps a little less awkward question. My question must be: do the Socialists recognise that there are some very special issues when it comes to people who have both minority backgrounds and lgbtq+ backgrounds? Do the Socialists recognise that the very specific issues that are being dealt with in this cross-section also often require special attention?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190701	Yes, it is my belief that this is a particular issue which requires a special effort. I do not have the full overview of whether it is a problem, i.e. whether our shelters out there today have problems dealing with it, whether they haven't got what can be said about the skills or the thesis or the experience to be able to deal with the particular issues, and that's what I call on the government to find out. I agree that there is a problem out there, but that does not necessarily mean that there are any problems. So before we come up with any very concrete solutions, I and the Social Democrats would certainly like to be sure that there is a problem that we have to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190745	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190746	I understand that, and I can assure you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff says we haven't made this up ourselves in the Enhedslisten. We haven't sat down in a corner, looked into the wall and thought, well, we're gonna have to make a shelter. In fact, we have talked to some of the people involved, among others. the Sabaah association, which is specifically concerned with advising and supporting people who have both minority backgrounds and are lgbtq+ people. And the particular cross-field, where you can meet hatred and prejudice in one place because you are lgbtq+-person, and hatred and prejudice in the other place because you have a minority background, creates a difficult damned if you do, damned if you don't-situation. And according to Sabaah, it also means that there isn't room for a lot of people in the usual places. So is it not good enough that it comes from the users themselves that this is a need?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190842-2	I would say that this obviously means paying attention and, I think, invites you to look at whether there is a real problem as a responsible politician. I believe that, as Members of Parliament, we must be careful not to rush too often with very concrete solutions before we are convinced that there are specific problems to be solved. That is why I call on the government to help us get an overview of this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190917	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402190923	Thank you. Well, as has been said, the proposal is to require the government to set up a crisis centre with special seats for double-minorities to accommodate the victims of violence, homo- and bisexual men and women, transpersonals and otherlgbtqs from minority communities. The Enhedslisten believes that violence against lgbtq people requires special attention. First of all, let me say that violence, hate crimes, harassment etc. is totally unacceptable, regardless of who is exposed to it. After all, we have taken a number of initiatives. We have among other things. granted fixed funds to Sabaah under the pool of rates. We have also provided operating grants for the Glbt area, and we have also drawn up an action plan in this area under the auspices of the rate pool. In addition, we have also allocated funds to a youth crisis centre, namely 21 million. kr., where you can get in from the street, and now they just have to be implemented according to the bet pool agreement. However, as I said earlier in my speech on equality, we have established RED Safehouse in Denmark, and unfortunately this has proved necessary, as many have still not adopted the Danish culture and values and the Danish norms, and it is important that the freedoms that we have in Denmark should be taken into account. After all, it's a safe home for young people aged 16-30 who can also take advantage of this group. I think that's really good. In addition, there are also several counselling services, including: Sabaah, and also a counselling offer, Ethnic Youth, which is in the RED counselling, which also offers advice, mediation, psychological assistance and trauma treatment. But I fully agree with Enhedslisten that it is of course disturbing that so many people are walking around with suicidal thoughts. It's never nice. That is why, of course, it is good that you have some places to turn to. But I think the most important thing is that we have and in the environment I come from, it is at least the case that when you ask people for help, you don't ask them for help because of your sexuality. Then you ask for help for what you might be exposed to. I don't think you should be so concerned about sexuality. The most important thing is that the challenges themselves are addressed, regardless of who you are. In the Danish People's Party we cannot support the proposal. In fact, I very much agree with much of what the Minister said, and I also very much agree with what the Socialist rapporteur said. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191224	A brief comment has been made by Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191228	For once! I just want to say that the rapporteur says that sexuality is not so important, and that is not so much to think about, and that is why it is fine. Young people can just be at the RED Safehouse, which is designed for young people with minority backgrounds exposed to violence or honour-related conflicts, negative social control. It is simply so easy to say when you are not in it, because what is behind this proposal is the story that when you come with lgbtq+ background and turn to it, you do not always feel welcome. You do not feel that this is an advisory service that is targeted at the particular problems you encounter, and there are even stories that you can feel discriminated against at safehouses. So it just sounds a little like the rapporteur would rather stand and talk about how people should take Danish values into account, but very much would not want to do anything concrete for the people it is about or how is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191342	This is the case with Mrs Pernille Skipper, who interprets the answer given. I say that in order to get help, it shouldn't depend on what sexuality you have. No, it doesn't. There are opportunities in Denmark for help, no matter what sexuality you have. That's what I'm talking about. Didn't we do anything? Yeah, we've done something. We have actually done something together except with Enhedslisten. We've made plans, we've made advice, and we've put funds off in the rate pool for both Sabaah, but also in relation to this action plan. So I certainly think we have done something together in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191423	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191429	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for his speech and answers to questions. I just have one question, because I think it is very good and commendable that money has been secured for Sabaah, which I believe is one of the most knowledgeable capabilities in this area that we are discussing in relation to this resolution. Sabaah himself has said several times that there is a need for a centre of this type to protect the two minorities involved. What is the rapporteur's position on Sabaah's own view that there is a need?
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191512	First of all, Sabaah has not approached me about that issue. Secondly, I believe that it should be possible to be included in the crisis centres that are already in place. Thirdly, in relation to what Mrs Pernille Skipper said about discrimination, I think you can see that everywhere. No matter who you are, you can experience discrimination. And it's something about how people are, how they've been raised, and how they meet other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191547	Then we thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl. That brings us to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191602	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by recognising the intentions of the proposal and the seriousness of the issue. There is no doubt that minority ethnic groups constitute a group which is in particular at risk of discrimination and distrust. As the authors of the motion justify today's proposal, I agree that it is very worrying that one in three people in New Danish is walking around with suicidal thoughts. Some experience verbal condemnation, while others are subjected to systematic physical violence by their loved ones. We cannot and must not accept this in Denmark. It is the clear position of the Left that everyone should have equal opportunities, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, and it cannot be subdued by religion or tradition. When we cannot support the proposal, it has two reasons: despite the fact that we fully recognise the seriousness of the problem, it is important to bear in mind that we are probably dealing with a very limited group. We therefore also believe that resources are best used within the existing framework that exists today, that is to say that it is within the framework we have that we need to look at getting better at this in so far as we can use the many inputs we can get from the actors in this area. I am thinking here, among other things. at RED Safehouse, which operates two of the country's most secure specialized locations for young people fleeing from honor-related conflicts. In addition, we support the Sabaah association financially, which works to improve conditions for lesbians, gays, bisexuals and tranned with ethnic minority backgrounds. Secondly, we do not necessarily agree with the authors of the motion that it is a good idea to separate minority ethnic groups from other young people with similar problems in relation to honour-related conflicts and negative social control. I fully agree that there may be some break lines in this area that are very culturally related, but I also believe that it is possible to deal with that out there and that it is also in everyone's interest to see a community with some outside its own cultural circle in this area. Against this background, we in the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, although we fully recognise its intentions and have every sympathy for the thinking behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191832	We thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward, and then we have reached Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191843	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for tabling this motion for a resolution. In other words, I think it is a huge declaration of failure if we are forced to set up an independent crisis centre for this particular target group. In fact, I think that a signal is sent to this target group that they are not intended to be included, that they are not intended to be accepted as they are. So I actually think that Enhedslisten, with this proposal, is sending out a completely wrong signal and that it is a huge declaration of bankruptcy for our society, if we cannot include them either at shelters with the problems that can be with violence, or not in the RED Safehouse, where there is exactly a focus on honor-related conflicts. So the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191944	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402191952	Thank you for that, President. This is a resolution which the Enhedslisten has already examined well. Very briefly: The issues and the exposure to violence experienced by lgbtqi+ persons with a minority ethnic background are issues to be understood in the cross-field of social categories. I think it's actually crucial that this group of people is specifically received by professionals, who relate to it and understand these issues, and who recognise that social conditions and dynamics have an impact on the barriers and exposure that exist in our society. In addition, Sabaah himself has pointed out on several occasions that a crisis centre is precisely missing to address the particular issues and needs of minority ethnic people in this group, and that is why we can easily support the proposal. There are some questions on this, and it is of course that I need to see what RED has said, and then I need to go into dialogue with Sabaah again to see if there has been any improvement over the last four years. And otherwise we can warmly agree that we have to take care of this target group. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192127	Thank you, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. Then we have actually reached the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192136	As I recall, I would like to start by greeting the Radical Left and the SF, who believe they can support the proposal. Then I would also like to express my particular regret to Intersex Denmark that we have forgotten one in, and I would like to emphasise that our proposal is of course about all lgbtq+ people. With these introductory spells, I would like to say that I am, in fact, a little surprised that it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is dealing with this proposal, partly because it has been put forward in the Committee on Gender Equality with a focus on gender equality, partly because the Minister himself is also saying that she is not working on the issue, because that is what the Minister for Gender Equality is doing. And then I have some doubts about what we're doing here today. I think it is really important that we recognise that the particular issues that exist for people who have both minority ethnic backgrounds and are lgbtq+ people are special. The government's action plan mentions that one third of those people have suicidal thoughts and that it calls for action, but there is actually no proposal in the action plan. Then I recognise that some things have been done later in the movement pool, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also notes. Anyway, this is an action plan without action. And this is a particular issue, because although most rapporteurs have emphasised here, the problem is that as a Belgian person you can meet prejudices in certain minority ethnic environments, the problem is also that as a person with a minority ethnic background you can face prejudices elsewhere, in the majority or in thelgbtq+ environments. This makes you stand in a huge cross-field, really difficult cross-field, where you can be put to hate or face prejudice, both when you appear in the minority and in the majority. So it's not that easy. You can't just say that it's important that we break down prejudice, so these people have to fit into this group. Or you can't just say that it shouldn't be important or anything. For the reality is that it is probably a small group, but they have some very special problems that do not just fit into the boxes that usually appear when you turn for support and help. I'm just gonna say it the way it is. When I sat down on my chair just before and heard the Minister speak and also heard some of the other rapporteurs speak, it sounded as if this was another occasion to scold the lack of room for lgbtq+ people in certain minority environments in Denmark: people with immigrant backgrounds, Muslims, all sorts of others. So, some usual song that they should also just take Danish values into account, and that everything is then solved, and that is where the problem lies. This is not one of those occasions today. This is a concrete proposal for action that is on the table, and it is not something we in the Enhedslisten have been sitting on and boiled on in the Proviant House and made up for ourselves. In fact, this is something we have talked about with the people we are talking about. They face the problems of everyday life. And now it seems to be too small a group. In other words, when we need it to tell how wrong things are in minority environments or scolding Muslims or people who do not have Danish values, or people with immigrant backgrounds, it fills everything. But when we have to do something about it, it's too small a group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192549	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192552	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would just like to say thank you because the rapporteur dares to call the implicit prejudice, which I also hear in the answers from both the Minister and several rapporteurs, for what it is. This is problematic, and if we can't have the difficult conversation here in the Folketing, I don't know when we can have the difficult conversation. So thank the rapporteur for saying it directly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192621	Thanks to the alternative for the support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192623	This brought us to the end of our thanksgivings. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190402192641	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 3 April 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
