ParlaMint-DK_20191203130038	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Bent Bøgsted (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 50 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the indexation of daily allowances). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 52 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Turkey and the European Union). Thomas Danielsen (V), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF), Mette Abildgaard (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 51 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the postponement of the phasing-in of registration fees for electric vehicles). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130118	Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) has applied for leave from 3 December 2019, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130205	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Danish People's Party in Funen's Storkredit, Pernille Bendixen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 3 December 2019 on the occasion of Alex Ahrendtsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130217	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Here you go. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 111 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130303	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 21 by Bjarne Laustsen (S), Stén Knuth (V), Anne Sophie Callesen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Nase Khader (KF), Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. In favour of 90 (S, V, RV, SF, KF, ALT, NB and LA), against 11 (DF), abstentions 8 (EL). Proposal for adoption No V 21 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 20 by Mr Søren Espersen (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 22 of Eva Flyvholm (EL) lapsed This concludes the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130452	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130507	Does anyone wish to vote on Amendment No 17? 1 and 2, adopted by the Committee, on Amendments Nos 1 and 2. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 3-6, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130547	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130555	Does anyone wish to vote on Amendment No 17? 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Here again, I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130646	This resolution has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate is open, and we will first give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203130702	Thank you for the floor. The citizens' bill has kick-started an important process of drafting a new and ambitious climate law for Denmark. This has been an important input to the negotiations on a new climate law that are currently under way. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the 11 organisations which have tabled the citizens' proposal and to the many Danes who have signed it. You have helped set in motion a very important agenda and debate. There is broad support among the population for an ambitious climate policy. 68,000 Danes have today expressed their support for the citizens' proposal, and over 3 million Danes voted in the last elections on the parties that are currently negotiating a climate law and who have agreed to the 70-percent reduction target. It is landmark, and it is with the broad popular mandate in mind that the government will conduct its climate policy and draft a new climate law. I agree with the proposers that there is a need for a new binding and ambitious climate law here in the country to ensure that we make our fair contribution to the Paris Agreement and ensure that Denmark can once again take the place of global power in the fight against climate change. The goal of 70% greenhouse gas reduction is the government's guiding star, and the work of negotiating an ambitious and binding climate law has been a priority for me since I sat in the ministerial chair. I am pleased that virtually all of the parliamentary parties are now supporting the ambitious target: 70% reduction in 2030 compared to 1990. I am even more pleased, if possible, that the goal has also been broadly embraced in Danish society, among others. of the Danish business community. I do not want to hide the fact that the negotiations on the Climate Act are both difficult and technical, but it is also my experience that if the political will is there, it is possible to reach a wise and broad agreement. This is important both to maintain strong and broad popular support and to ensure the basis for the large and long-term investments required by the transition. The Climate Act must set the framework for future climate policy, but we have not solved the challenge alone with a climate law. That is why it is also with great pleasure that yesterday evening the government, together with the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, concluded a historic green finance law. The Finance Act contains many good and green measures, both in the field of afforestation and the removal of agricultural land, but also in terms of ensuring a continued green conversion of the transport sector. However, I am particularly excited about one initiative, namely the Danish Green Future Foundation. It is a fund that must help ensure that Denmark takes responsibility and heads an ambitious climate action. The fund, which will have a total envelope of 25 billion. kr., will contribute to a national and international green transition, investing in measures that reduce the stress on climate, nature and the environment. Earlier this year, all parties of the Folketing concluded another important agreement on research. We agreed to double investment in research and development of future climate solutions. The research funds and this year's financial law bring us far from achieving the 70-percent objective. Green measures will be needed in the next many years of finance laws, but we have taken the first very important step. For the government, it has also been a priority to ensure that the political infrastructure itself supports the green transition. That is why we have set up a Green Conversion Committee and started work to strengthen the green arithmetic models in the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, we want effects to be calculated on climate, environment and nature in all relevant government proposals and legislative proposals. We also believe that the climate challenge needs to be addressed in close cooperation with the business community, which is why we have launched 13 climate partnerships to ensure that the green transition is created in cooperation with the business community, so that growth and Danish jobs go hand in hand with the transition. In the coming year, the government will also present a climate action plan to guide the road to the 70-percent target. We will need all our good efforts to achieve our ambitious national reduction targets. I welcome the support I am now experiencing, but I am also very concerned about securing the balances that it takes to maintain the broad popular support and the support of industry for climate policy. This is my starting point for the climate negotiations, and I look forward to the hope that we will soon be able to publish an agreement on a new ambitious climate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131156	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131201	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for this introductory speech to this debate. One might say that we are a little in parallel with the fact that we are dealing with this, sitting and having discussions with the Minister about a climate bill, but I also think it is worth considering the citizens' proposal that we are discussing here today. And there I would like to know whether the Minister still agrees with the six pillars described in the citizens' proposal as bearing a climate bill forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131234	Yes, it is a rather strange situation that we are in, because, in parallel with the debate in this Chamber, we are actually engaged in very deep and intense negotiations. That is why I believe that most people will understand that I am not interested, like the one sitting at the end of the table, to go into too much detail with the various parts of the proposal we are discussing here, or, incidentally, the things that are on the table in the negotiating room. However, I can say that the policy of the Social Democratic Party in this area has obviously not changed since the citizens' proposal was discussed for the first time, or since we presented our priorities in relation to the Climate Act in connection with the election campaign and, moreover, on the other side of the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131318	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131322	I fully understand the role that the Minister has here, but what I am a little curious about is particularly in relation to the sixth pillar of global engagement, because it is of course about finding a balance between both delivering at the 70-percent reduction target by 2030, i.e. at least 70%. In relation to that, I would just like to hear whether you are both saying that yes, it is a fantastic financial law we had made yesterday, but also seeing some leads in the future, that is things that have not yet been discussed and there I am thinking in particular of development aid and climate aid as two separate things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131401	Yes, but it is clear that we want to reduce by 70%. in Denmark, and we will, not only because we are responsible for part of the world's emissions, but in isolation it is about 0.1%. the world's emissions of greenhouse gases, so that alone is not what saves the climate. But what may help to save the climate is, of course, if we, as a small country, can take the lead, can inspire and can push ourselves to develop new technologies and new solutions on the climate front that others can be inspired by and can use. But, of course, we also have a global responsibility, and we will have to continue to provide development aid as well as bilateral cooperation. We have 15 of this type now, in other words working with countries in the world, which overall account for 60%. of the world's CO2 we must, of course, continue to do so, and that must of course also be reflected in a climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131453	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131455	Thank you. But if the Minister is not able to go into the negotiations as much as I do not know much about, can he tell us a little about how far we have come with this financial law here? How many percent reduction do we think the Minister has reached? This is a debate at the moment, and I would like to hear an authorised version of how far we are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131513	The problem with this kind of calculation is that it's quite difficult, for example. to figure out how much we get out of a research effort or how much we get out of a global climate fund that has to deliver solutions around the world and nationally. So the estimates that will be given will by their very nature become quite conservative by nature. And here I am not referring to party membership, but I would just like to say that they are probably a little cautious in that. But I heard the Minister for Finance this morning say that overall he considered that the reduction in CO2 2 is quite significant.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131602	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131603	That is to say, I have to settle for the one percent that colleagues in this Chamber mentioned this morning on the radio. It is a little long to work with if we are to achieve the goal, and that is why I think it is very good that the citizens are reacting, that the young people are reacting and that we actually have external pressure to speed up. This means that the grandparents and children are reacting to life, and now the middle generation, who sits and has the power of decision over these years, must also react as quickly as possible, and there I would like to appeal for it to be done as quickly as possible. I would also like to appeal to the Minister to set aside, for example. 50 million kr. We have had similar situations in history so that all the people in every town can discuss these problems and help create a movement that can bear in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131649	Now the questioner's own party is also part of the agreement that has just been made yesterday, with even very great green progress, so I would like to sign for that. Compared to the part about citizen involvement, it is certain that this is one of the things we need to look at how we can be better at in this country. This is true in a broad sense, but this is particularly true in relation to the climate issue. And I believe that the fact that we are discussing this citizens' proposal, which has undoubtedly helped to put an agenda ahead of the parliamentary elections, the fact that organisations have been active, the fact that people have gone on the streets, is extremely beneficial, and we politicians need to seize and think about this in new ways where we can exploit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131734	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131736	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. One of the things that is not part of the climate legislation negotiations is, after all, the economy in relation to strengthening the Climate Council. After all, the government presented the Finance Act last night, which will strengthen the Climate Council's economy by 10 million. kr. in 2020 and 15 million; kr. in the years to come. What I would like to ask the Minister is: if the Climate Council is to carry out the tasks of the citizens' draft, then on the basis of the six points, does the Minister think that the introduction of the economy is sufficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131815	I believe that this is a very good strengthening on the resource side of the Climate Council with the financial agreement that is now in place. Now it is precisely the role of the Climate Council that we are discussing it with Mr. Thomas Danielsen, of course, because he is sitting at the table himself and that is why I am not so much to go into too much detail about exactly what we are discussing; I think the questioner would also like to get rid of that. But let me keep on saying that it is clear that there is a need for the Climate Council to be strengthened and, of course, it also costs some money for which resources are needed, and that is what has been the result of the financial agreement that was made yesterday, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131901	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131904	Yes, that is precisely why I am asking the Minister in relation to the citizens' proposal and not in relation to the negotiations that are under way, whether the Minister believes that a strengthening of 10 million, above all. kr. and the years ahead 15 million. kr. will be sufficient. And the reason I ask is that when you ask the Climate Council itself and they look at the citizens' proposal and the training that lies in it, they will judge that it is at least a doubling of their economy that is needed to carry out the many tasks that lie in it. That is why I wonder what the Minister's assessment of the economy that has been set aside is if it is to be held up against the citizens' proposal itself. Does the Minister think that is enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203131943	Yes, I believe that we are actually giving the Climate Council what they have signaled they need. Of course, I cannot guarantee, if you ask people if they want even more money, that they will not say 'yes' to it. However, when I reply as I do, it is of course because, with all due respect for the present proposal, we are discussing here, which is important and good, and which has been inspired by what will become the legislation in force, hopefully and probably is what we will agree on in the negotiating rooms here very soon. Of course, there must be a link between what tasks we give and what resources have been set aside, and I think that will be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132018	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132022	Thank you. I am just reading a little bit of the report that the Minister's party and the other opposition parties made at the time when we dealt with this citizens' proposal in the Chamber for the first time. And there you have, among other things. in writing here the wording that climate considerations should be integrated into other policies. And it is also one of the pillars of the citizens' proposal itself that we should think about it. So I would just like to ask the Minister how he thinks he should do it. And it is not to be polemical, because I fully recognise that we have taken decisions that could have been better impacted, so that is not really my purpose in this issue. But I just want to hear from the Minister how he thinks it can be done in practice. Is it to be incorporated into a climate law, or how do you ensure it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132107	I think this is an extremely relevant issue, and I myself referred to the fact that, in the government, we have set up a Green Conversion Committee, which I myself chair, in which we screen all legislation that is made by the government and that is important for the green, not only climate, but also biodiversity and the environment. And that, of course, is because we want to avoid situations such as 'and again it is not to be polemical on my part' under the previous government, for example. created an infrastructure plan for over 100 billion. kr. without counting on CO2 Of course, that's not gonna work. I think we agree on that now. It is water under the bridge and all that, and I think most parties will agree now that it must be a thing of the past. Now we have to secure that kind of thing, so that's among other things. in the green selection. It is also clear that the Ministry of Finance must be more capable of counting on these things. I do not know whether the Minister for Finance has called himself the green cashier or whether others have called him that. But at least I think he's earned the title now. He has also said that he is going to give priority to the green, not only in relation to how much money he drops to the area, but also in relation to how to approach it in the Ministry of Finance. This means green arithmetic models, new and progressive ways of thinking green into all policy areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132217	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132219	It's really nice that you have this screening in this new green selection. I think that previous governments have also had that; a similar screening which has then been carried out in other committees. But there may well be some sense in having a genuine green committee. But the part that I am really interested in is also public access to it. Because you can say that it's going on in a closed room that this screening, these calculations, these figures, should also be available to the public, for the Folketing, so that we can have the debates on an enlightened basis. That is why I would like to try to hear again: does the Minister think that this is a matter of thinking into other policy areas, is part of a climate law, or is the Minister thinking more that it is part of a cultural change or of a practice here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132302	Well, I'm not going to go into the details of what is on the table in the climate negotiations themselves. I think the questioner also has respect for that. But, of course, I think it should be considered in the broad parliamentary work. And the concrete example that I am referring to the infrastructure plan, which the previous government, of which the author's own party was a part, did, where it could not even be presented, what CO2 and, of course, it is also clear that we must realise that, unfortunately, this is not something that we can start to shed light on in full from tomorrow. For there are also some methods and methods of calculation that need to be developed. However, we are doing this as quickly as possible, and the Minister for Finance has also said that as soon as there are tools, he will implement them. So it is not the case that you wait until you have everything ready and then only do it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132355	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and we are starting with the rapporteur's series, and the first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132411	Thank you, sir. President. As our rapporteur, Mrs Paulin, has gone and become ill, I shall give the speech on her behalf. And it can be said that the first reading of this motion for a resolution is going down on the very day after a new financial law was introduced, with so much green prints. So the prayers have been answered. What we are dealing with today is, of course, a citizens' proposal for a Danish Climate Act now, based on six principles: firstly, that Denmark should make its contribution to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement; secondly, that five-year milestones should be set at least 15 years in advance; thirdly, that climate considerations should be integrated into other policies; fourthly, that the Climate Council should be strengthened and guaranteed independence; fifthly, that Denmark should invest in the development of green solutions; and finally, sixthly, that Denmark should be a driving force in international climate policy. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is appropriate to recognise the 11 NGOs behind the citizens' proposal and the 68 000 Danes who have signed the proposal. You have moved something, even a lot, with a clear voice signaled to us here at Christiansborg that now is the time to take climate change seriously. I think it is today's Jutlandic understatement if we quietly point out that climate policy was not at the top of the agenda of the previous bourgeois government, and this citizen's proposal came quite inconvenient for the previous government, since back in January in just two weeks it received the necessary 50,000 signatures and thus headed for the Parliamentary Assembly as early as the spring. However, the Left put an end to this with a series of technical questions, which is why we did not have time to discuss the proposal in this Chamber before the parliamentary elections, but we will have the opportunity to do so now. In the meantime, however, the happiness of the citizens' proposal has already given a proper boost to political developments in this country. In fact, the proposal has helped to start the wave that swept over the election campaign, and it has now led to negotiations on an ambitious and binding climate law. Furthermore, it is also worth mentioning that several of the elements included in the citizens' proposal have in the meantime become part of the government's new green course for Denmark. With the creation of the government's Green Committee, the government sends a clear signal that climate policy must be considered across resort areas and that climate considerations must be much more comprehensive in the political decision-making process than before. In addition, there is the Financial Law Agreement, which includes, among other things: strengthens the Climate Council financially and strengthens Denmark's international commitment to climate policy, but of course much more needs to be done, and the next important step is that Denmark gets a strong climate law. We are very confident that these negotiations can provide the long-term political support for the green transition that is needed here, and on this basis we do not support the concrete motion for a resolution, relying on the current negotiations, as the Minister has just explained. I would therefore like to express my thanks for the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132719	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132724	Thank you. If the rapporteur cannot respond to what I am asking now, then I fully understand it because it stands there on behalf of the usual climate rapporteur. But I'm a little curious about this citizens' proposal and then the climate laws negotiations that are going on right now. That is especially the six pillars of it. Does the Social Democrats still believe that this is what is behind it and therefore also the essential element of a climate law that we would like to land together, despite the fact that we may be landing somewhere else because of a compromise? But does the Social Democrats continue to want the six pillars to be the cornerstone of a climate law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132804	I think that these are very good points, but what I think is always most important when making political agreements is that they become as broad as possible without watering them down. The Finance Act of last night is also a sign of this. Those parties that want to join in and take co-responsibility also have an influence on things. So the alternative can carry things to that negotiating table itself, and then you have to see how far things can go. But I certainly think it is a good thing that people are involved, that you put some money into a fund, that you get companies to take a look at it. Because there are thousands of jobs hidden here, as I see it. A lot of people say that out there, both employees' and employers' organisations. They say that there are possibilities here that we can, knowing that we have this green agenda, develop something that we can use ourselves, but that we can also export. So, as we say in Jutland, it's a win-win situation. So, in this way, I think that many of the points contained in the six pillars are actually escaping well with what I think the Minister is discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132911	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132913	Thank you, and I promise you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, that we're gonna sit at the table and help take responsibility for this climate bill. It is a burning wish for us to make it strong and binding. But I hear it as if you continue to support the six pillars, just as you did before the elections, and that promises good for the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203132935	I'm really glad the alternative has found its way home. There was such a little up to the last parliamentary election, where you didn't know where to go. However, I think it is very good that the alternative signals that they would like to join with other parties that want the green agenda to go into this. I am not going to say on behalf of the Minister what to do, but I think there is a constructive approach to it, because this is, of course, about getting the most progressive climate legislation that we have seen anywhere in the world, because that is what is needed. It's a really good signal we send in Denmark if we get to the end of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133013	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133016	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Bjarne Laustsen. I understand, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, that a number of superfluous questions were put to the citizens' proposal, the last time we discussed it, and I cannot help thinking about that, so that leads me to ask: does this mean that the rapporteur would say that the rapporteur's party has not moved an inch from this citizen's proposal and its content since we last discussed it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133050	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen for the question. I would like to say that, as I understand it in relation to the specific negotiations and what has been going on, one might have had this talk earlier, but the very question put by the Left made it only now. I believe that all parties, including the individual members of this thing, have moved in this area. This is the first time we have seen something as significant as this climate agenda coming from outside, and this is largely due to the developments in many places, with rain, drought, storms and floods etc., and this applies both at home, but also in the Arctic and elsewhere. That is what has led to such terrible pressure, and that is why this citizens' proposal also reached 50,000 votes within 14 days, I think it was. So it's just that there's symmetry between what the citizens want and what's a majority for in here in the Folketing. And I also hope that the Left will take a decision and agree to such a law on climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133154	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133157	Thank you for your answer. I was just a little surprised because I got the impression that the rapporteur said that the Social Democrats had not moved on to what was thought last time we discussed this proposal. That was actually just what puzzled me a little, so I had some questions if it were, but thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133213	Well, in Social Democracy, we always listen to grass roots. We are very much a grassroots part and it was long before it became modern to say it. So we are always in agreement with both our constituents and our members in this area. The places where you get out... and I think, too, sir. Thomas Danielsen himself experiences it himself in West Jutland, you find that they ask: Can we not get some more green energy and make some wind turbines stand there? Can't we get some solar panels up? Can't we do something with our garbage? Can't we just do one thing and the other? We didn't hear much about that 10-15 years ago. It is only good that it has come up on the political agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133245	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133300	Thank you for that, President. I must begin by regretting that I too am a little sniffed by something sniffy, but I hope that you will be able to bear it in mind. And first of all I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, which is now being retabled; since it did not reach completion before the elections, it is being retabled today. Thank you, too, for including me. has helped push on the green agenda. The citizens' proposal is now being dealt with in parallel with the climate legislation negotiations in the Ministry, but I will only deal with the content of the citizens' proposal and not with the negotiations in the Ministry. The principles of the citizens' proposal are really good. It is the case that paragraph 1 states that Denmark must make its contribution to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We in the Left welcome that. As paragraph 2, five-year milestones must be set at least 15 years in the future. We are not so enthusiastic about this in the Left, but we understand the intentions of the citizens' proposal, which is why we in the Left believe that, like the Climate Council, new climate plans should be drawn up every five years, extending ten years into the future. This means that next year we will have to draw up a climate plan on how to achieve our targets by 2030, and there we will have a common understanding in the negotiations that this means 70 per cent reduction. Paragraph 3 states that climate considerations must be integrated into other policies. Of course, we in the Left also welcome this, which is why we had already started work in the Ministry of Finance, which should take care of it, and we must, of course, continue to do so. Paragraph 4 of the citizens' proposal is that the Climate Council should be strengthened and guaranteed independence. The Left continues to believe that it should be ensured that the Climate Council can redesign itself, just as the Environmental Economic Council sees it. This is a good principle in order to avoid any discussion of political interference. The independence of the Climate Council also concerns the economic part. This is something that is being decided by the government, which makes the financial law agreement, and I am delighted that the Minister has been able to reassure us that, if it is at least the citizens' proposal's tasks to be solved, then it is an adequate economy that has been provided and, of course, I trust it. Paragraph 5 is that Denmark must focus on the development of green solutions. I fully agree with that. It is important that we have a climate law that supports the good example from Denmark. It is the case that Denmark's total CO2 Finally, paragraph 6 states that Denmark must be a driving force in international climate policy, and of course we agree entirely with that in the Left. So thank the proposers who have helped push this agenda, and I look forward to the fact that we in the Left will hopefully be able to present a final climate bill together with many of the other parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133641	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133646	Thank you. It was such a speech where you say that you support and that there are good intentions, and there are still some things that you do not entirely support. This concerns, among other things: I am curious to hear how the Left will ensure action today and not until 2029 if we do not have partial goals. The second question concerns the fact that I was able to hear that the sixth pillar was supported in terms of being a driving force in international climate policy. Does it also apply on the part of the Left to provide new and additional climate assistance on the scale described in the citizens' proposal, or how is the support for pillar 6 of the citizens' proposal to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133730	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. It is a well-known fact that the Left is not enthusiastic about legally binding five-year milestones, and the reason why the Left is not, is the same as the one, the Climate Council and the Environmental Economic Council have not to be, and that is that these short-term binding targets can lead to inappropriate investments. Because if you invest in the short term, it is not necessarily the same as that it is a good solution in the long term. It can, for example, be done. If we have a legally binding target already in 5 years' time, it may be one of the low-hanging fruits where we say that more biomass solutions must then be used, and that is also why both the Climate Council and the Environmental Economic Council say that this is inappropriate and that this is not the way we should go. So we believe that we must act long-term and look forward to 2030 and then measure every year with the policies being implemented whether it is likely that the 2030 target of the initiatives that have been taken will be reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133836	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133837	I asked how action is to be taken today. And then I just have to say that biomass is not something you can have to use. It will always be a political choice if you want to use a solution. I am also curious to get answers to the question of new and additional climate aid. There is support from the Left for pillar 6 of the citizens' proposal, which deals with the international area, but is there also support for new and additional climate aid, which is therefore in addition to the 0.7% already provided in development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203133911	Thank you. I regret that I was unable to answer the question. After all, there is a red lamp that blinks when the speaking time expires. But yes, we also believe that we should be frontrunners on the international agenda, both in terms of climate aid and trade aid. There are many challenges that can be solved with climate policy, and we can see that, as far as the vast majority of people who are displaced today are concerned, it is not actually due to war and destruction or it is good enough because of destruction, but it is therefore climate destruction. So there's a lot of potential. When the rapporteur asks how we can then ensure climate action from day one if you have a target by 2030, I would say that it is just as important that you follow it up every year if you have a 2030 target, as if you have a 2025 target, where you cannot wait until 2024 to act either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134009	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134012	Thank you. Sometimes you think it might be tricky just to be inside another party's group room to hear what's going on in there. After all, some of our colleagues take the consequences off and join another party in order to listen. This isn't the errand I'm out on here. However, with regard to the very thing about who has moved most, I would like to acknowledge that I cannot think of any party that has moved more in this area than the Left since 2001. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's government began to scrap one offshore wind farm after another, cut down on research etc., and they hired Bjørn Lomborg to tell that it could well be that there were climate change, but that they were certainly not man-made. After all, all these various things helped to delay this process, and so I would ask the rapporteur to tell us, if possible, what has happened since the Left has moved so much, for which, incidentally, I acknowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134108	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Left has moved a lot. We've moved a lot, and I see a whole Parliament that has. We have also moved further than the Social Democracy in a large number of areas. Speaking of more wind and more sun, it is a fact that the Social Democrats voted against it in the last period for the reason that it is expensive. This is gonna cost money. With regard to the agreement on the set-aside of agricultural land, which we made together, the rapporteur and I know who pulled the brake and said: 'Oh, what is going to be too much.' In relation to the energy agreement, which was the broadest energy agreement in the history of Denmark, the rapporteur knows very well that we had to negotiate with the Radical Left at some point, because the Social Democrats said: 'Oh, now we are pulling the brake again, now it is actually going to be difficult with the electoral promises we have made, about warm hands, etc. etc. So it is about political priorities, and yes, the Left has moved significantly. I welcome this because I believe that this is the right direction to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134204	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134205	I have the benefit of hearing exactly what was going on in the Left Group Room. The road is paved with many problems if one is to reach a certain goal, but perhaps that was more the ideological one I was thinking of, and it may be that it is Mr. Thomas Danielsen's fault that the Left has moved so much. After all, it was pure ideology that everything others said about climate change and so on. etc., was junk. But what is positive is not so much about the individual windmill and all the other things there, but what has happened on the ideological level in the Left Party, so you now think it is really good. It has taken some time, but the time must also be ripe for things sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134245	I find it difficult to see whether the questioner thinks that it is a problem that the Left has moved a lot and perhaps even so much that social democracy has been overtaken in a number of areas. In relation to what happens at internal meetings in the Left Group Room, it is of course not something that is revealed. At any rate, we have stopped doing so now after we have a new chairman, but I can tell you that at the last evening group meeting we had external speakers from CARE, from the Climate Council and from Danish Energy etc., and there we have moved a lot in the Left. There we have gone from buying a wine gift to buying a biodegradable barbecue that you don't even have to throw out after use, for example when you have used it on the beach. It's 100 percent. degradable. So, yes, it's in many ways that we've moved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134335	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134338	Thank you to the rapporteur for exciting information, including on biodegradable grills. There is much to be gained from being in the Parliamentary Chamber, including when it comes to this citizens' proposal for a climate bill. However, I am a little curious about the debate on partial objectives, and I understand the rapporteur's scepticism about them. I understand from the rapporteur that the Left Party is in favour of setting a reduction target of 70%. in 2030, without knowing the means, and that is why the rapporteur has to explain to me why we are opposed to setting continuous reduction targets, even after 2030, because we do not know all the means there either. So how, on the one hand, can we support a target by 2030, but, on the other hand, not be willing to set an ongoing subsequent target?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134426	I haven't mentioned anything about instruments. But it is true that we are not enthusiastic about binding sub-targets, and we are not for the same reason that the Climate Council is not enthusiastic about them, and for the same reason that the Environmental Economic Council is not enthusiastic about them. So the whole challenge of having legally binding sub-targets is, of course, that it can unfortunately lead to inappropriate short-term solutions, and that is where we in the Left believe it is important that we have the long light on, and that all the legislation we are making is pointed towards 2030, not just what we are doing in the Climate and Energy Committee, but all the legislation we are making in general, to see if it is still likely that we will reach our 70-percent reduction target by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134516	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134517	I am somewhat surprised that reference is made to the recommendations of the Climate Council. On page 17, the Climate Act says that a government should set reduction targets for 10 years in the future. However, since the rapporteur is now opposed to our continuing partial objectives, how will the rapporteur ensure that there is sufficient momentum, the sufficient level of ambition in climate policy? Because I imagine that the rapporteur agrees with what science has been putting forward all the time, that is to say that it is actually essential that we reach net zero and that we constantly have reductions. So how will you ensure the Danes without having partial goals that there will be continuous reductions and that climate policy will not just be what it has been for too many years: very much talk and really little action?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134605	Well, now you can talk about sub-targets in many ways. What we talked about before the elections was legally binding sub-targets every five years. This was one of the reasons why lawyers got hurt in the stomach and sat more in the toilet than they were in the meeting rooms, and it is because it is extremely difficult how to commit a Parliament, where no one is above the Folketing, and no one is next to the Folketing, to make legally binding targets. What will the consequences be? There has also been a public discussion about this. Is it the minister who's going to jail? I think it was sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who made a good suggestion that the Minister's government party would lose two seats if it did not achieve its objective. You can use all possible scenarios, but this with consequences is incredibly difficult for a Parliament that will be able to decide at any time what they think is right. That is why it is possible to achieve different objectives on the basis of what has been taken of initiatives and then we expect so much. What is just important is that we have the long-term aim of achieving our 2030 target in all the policy we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134709	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134710	Thank you. I think it is very good that we can have some debates here in the Chamber, where we actually recognise from the platform that we have changed our position or moved forward. However, I am sorry that the rapporteur is unable to support the whole intention of this citizens' proposal, but I note that the Left says that they agree at least in paragraph 1 that Denmark should make its fair contribution to the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and I would like to ask that question, because it means, as I see it, that we have to make some reductions in Denmark. And, of course, the Left has agreed to the proposal that we should have a 70-percent target from 2030. I mean, the 70%. We need to be reduced in Denmark and, therefore, it is not something we need to do, for example. to use quota cancellations. I would like to know whether the Left has also changed its position on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134800	I very much agree that the 70-percent target should be Denmark's target. I also very much agree that it would not be ambitious to come and propose quota cancellations. But the debate is, of course, about whether the instrument should be part of a framework law that should apply up to 2050, or whether it should be in these ten-year action plans. There I believe that, regardless of whether you have a resistance to biomass, quota cancellations or other means of action, it must be incorporated into the action plans, and the reason why we believe it in the Left is not that we believe that the 70-percent target of quota cancellations should be achieved, but that no one can predict the future. When we had quota cancellation experts on the Energy Policy Committee last week and they were asked whether they expect changes to be made to the way quota cancellations are being made within the EU, they said: yes, they will, because that is what happens all the time. Okay, can one deny that there will be some changes that make it very, very attractive as an instrument in the future? No, but we do not think it is very attractive today, the two experts said, and one expert said that he thought that there were certain quota cancellations that were attractive. That is why it cannot be denied from today until 2050 that there will be changes which make a majority of parties in this House consider it attractive. So it should not be stated in a law that it cannot be an instrument, since the action programme itself is something that is being dealt with next to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134940	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203134942	I note, of course, that the rapporteur has said in the past that the Climate Council recommends one and the other, and that is why the Left believes this and that, but obviously not in this area. Because the Climate Council actually recommends that we write in this framework law on climate change that we should not use such flexible mechanisms. They were saying that to all of us, so I simply do not understand why the Left, as a party, wants to put this door on hold and thus signal that they 70 per cent. is something where we might hang our hat on, that in 2029 we'll just do quota cancellations, because we'll just do it abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135026	If the rapporteur has read the latest report from the Climate Council, they recommend that quota cancellations are not used or that there is inappropriate use of biomass, which means that it must be certified biomass if it is to be used. That is to say, it is the same sentence. Then the rapporteur must also think that it should be stated in the law that biomass which is not certified should not be used either, and although the rapporteur agrees with the Left on this issue, we in the Left do not think that it should be written into a law that should reach 2050. Because a lot can happen in this area by 2050. None of us is sitting in the Chamber today to predict what will happen up to 2050. The President, Peter Møllgaard, directly polled, also says that whether it is in the Climate Act or in the Climate Action Plan is not what he wants to go into, but he just wants to say that he does not believe that it should be used as a means of climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135124	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135127	Thank you. After all, for the quota consultation in committee last Thursday, it was very clear that quota cancellations have no effect until 2030. In fact, all three experts agreed on this. So does the Left agree with the three experts and with the Climate Council that quota cancellations should not be used, at least until 2030, because they do not have a climate effect in this very crucial period?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135149	The Left fully agrees with the experts who were in the committee. You said that in the coming years, the model we have today will only have an effect 20 years in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135201	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135202	This is very useful, because if we could start by saying that the 70-percent target must be achieved without quota cancellations, then we are already very, very far. Then perhaps it is more a question of whether it should be in the law or whether it should be in an agreement that, in those years after, we cannot know what is happening. So it sounds like we might not be so far apart on this issue, because the important thing for us in Radicals is that we set all sails to reach the 70%. at home in Denmark by really taking the lead. Does the Left agree with that approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135232	That is exactly the approach of the Left. We should not write it into a framework law that should apply until 2050. If we are to write it in, it must be written into our climate action plan, i.e. both the cancellation of quotas, uncertified biomass and what else we can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135251	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135302	Thank you, President. It is interesting to sit and be able to follow this debate. Hopefully, as interesting outside the Chamber as it is in this Chamber where there is much talk of political change. What is really central is how society changes and how we can influence it. Something in the last month that has really ignited me in this debate was, for example, when Agriculture & Food came out with the announcement that Denmark was now close to developing a new enzyme that could significantly reduce the methane emissions of cattle farms. Funny enough, it was a technological gain that was not adopted in a motion for a resolution or a bill or other political decree, but something that was created because in Danish agriculture you want to take the lead in the green transition globally, want to be a primus engine and drive it here both for the Danish green transition, but also for it to become something that can influence and convince the rest of the world. And that is really what counts far more than if you can stand here and beat each other with quotes and things that have been said in the past. I cannot see any good argument against the green transition, but I can see a lot of things that would be deeply irresponsible not to take into account when talking about the green transition. This is basically the axis in which one line can have the ambition of green conversion and the other line can have how it affects the rest of society in terms of social balance, in terms of growth, jobs, etc. That is, of course, what really determines where the parties place themselves, whether they want to or not. When a lot of parties like me can just count it: the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservatives, the Social Democratic Party and probably several others have moved within the last six months, it is because there has been a popular desire, a popular movement, but also because it is now openly acknowledged and something you can say bramberly that the objective that you then set yourself, we have no idea at a time of speech and writing how we are going to achieve. So what we agree on is that we want to reach it and that we sit around the famous table, and with all known means and good intentions we try to achieve it. It can be said that this citizens' proposal, which we have today, has been overtaken by reality in so far as, after the election of the Danish Parliament, the six points which the proposal outlines as I see it and which we see in the Danish People's Party are included in one way or another in the process that is currently taking place in relation to creating a new climate law and so expected and hopefully on the other side of New Year to implement it. That Denmark must meet its international obligations, I think there is, if not complete consensus then at least quite, quite a broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament on; that is point No. 1. That five-year milestones should be set: we can discuss how that tool should work, but that we should keep the government up to the agreement that we have made, and not just every five years, on the basis of the mutual commitment we have made, there is a very broad consensus on. I do not recall having made the suggestion made by Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen mentions the direct punishment of government parties by depriving them of office. I think we're running into some constitutional problems. On the other hand, I am very concerned that if a government does not honour its promises, then there must be a majority of the people against it, and in the way we do in the parliamentary game normally, punish the government and then impose precisely that which, in the words of flax, is intended: that nothing is either above or beside the Folketing. So the purpose of paragraph 2 is also present. The integration of climate considerations into other policies seems quite obvious. It is part of the day-to-day political debate here in the Danish Parliament, and I understand that in addition to the Economic Committee, the coordinating committee has now also set up a green committee, so that it seems to be something that has been relatively wide-ranging. That the Climate Council should be strengthened both professionally with input from outside and in relation to the way the Council works, there seems to be a broad consensus on. The fact that Denmark has to invest in the development of green solutions is such a whole foundation for the transformation that we are talking about, and that makes quite good sense. And that we must be a driving force in international climate policy, I think there is also a very broad consensus on that. Then you can always discuss what is enough for you to call yourself a driving force, but I certainly have no memories of a government that has not been able to say that they are a driving force at least in recent times. So we are trying to achieve all these intentions because there are only good arguments for a green transition, and we share that view in the Danish People's Party too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203135834	It is, of course, a happy day today, because we have to deal with the citizens' proposal that perhaps helped to set it all in motion. I was just checking how many people signed the bill, and that's 68,499. And with such a nice number, you almost wanted to be the last to sign, so you could get up to 68,500 if someone is watching, they can do it. I didn't think it was my job as a parliamentarian to make a citizen's proposal, but perhaps rather to answer it. But it should not be a secret that you who have signed the citizens' bill, you who have demonstrated, you who have been on the streets and straits, you who have sat with your parents and over dinner convinced them why the climate is important, you who have taken the neighbor's hand and explained why it is our future that is at stake. It is all you who have created the political will that yesterday resulted in a bill of finance and hopefully soon in an ambitious climate law that our business will be involved in, in that our agriculture will gradually also want to join in that perhaps even the transport sector is beginning to move on. It's priceless, and maybe that's what makes Denmark the most of a pioneering country, that is, if we can get the people into this change. In relation to the Climate Act and the citizens' proposal, it is of course no secret that we are currently in the Ministry negotiating a climate law. And that is how I can tell those who do not necessarily know what it is like with resolutions and probably not with citizens' proposals that what the Folketing adopts often stays in a slightly different form when it gets through the ministerial mill. That is why it is possible to say in relation to the political intention and the wishes and thoughts behind the citizens' proposal and whether they are intact through this process that perhaps the important thing is not whether or not it is literally the way the proposal stands. However, in relation to the six principles contained in the citizens' proposal, I would like to say that the first principle is to set an objective which means that you live up to the Paris Agreement and that Denmark takes its share. There we have asked the Climate Council to count on it, and they have among other things. pointed out that the 70-percent target, which is gradually supported by most of the Danish Parliament's parties, is in line with the Paris Agreement. And it's certainly a really good place to start. So we would like to see it tightened in relation to when we should be in net zero and that we tried to strive towards 2045 or earlier yet. The second principle is that five-year sub-targets should be set 15 years in advance. That is one of the things we are discussing at the moment. How do we do it best? How do we set targets that both mean that we will get started quickly, but also that we can set in motion initiatives that may not deliver until after a number of years? After all, there are many of the things we would like to do that only after a number of years, for example. to take land out of service, plant forest, quiet the transport sector; that is, if you have to change the taxes and people have to go first to buy the cars, then it will only have an effect after a number of years. If we are to create new energy storage systems, it is also something that takes some time. Therefore, it is quite important that we give ourselves the opportunity to also organise it here so that it becomes in a wise way that the rest of the world can be inspired by. The third principle is that climate considerations must be integrated into other policies. It is very important for Radicals that we have clear plans for the other sectors, so that it is not the poor climate minister who has to try to deal with everything with his resort, the energy sector. Now that we know that energy accounts for only about half of the climate challenge... the other half comes from the way we use our land and the way we use materials... it is absolutely crucial that other ministries are at the forefront of the green transition and have sectoral strategies in their fields, in transport, in agriculture, in construction, and in fact, very much has a Ministry of Finance working with and not against one in this area. The fourth principle is to strengthen the Climate Council and ensure its independence. This is a very, very important thing, because the Climate Council becomes a crucial player in holding the Folketing and the government responsible. I am delighted that yesterday we found new funds for the Climate Council in the Finance Act, because that makes it easier to create a framework and give them more tasks when you have also found the money for it. Principle No 5 is about developing green solutions in Denmark, and that's what has to move the world.That's what we do, just as compared to wind we have made wind cheaper than coal and oil and gas, so we actually make the other things into the bad investments. This is one of the things that can really move out in the world because it inspires other countries to say: okay, we can do this; we get cleaner air, we get cleaner energy, so we want that, and it's even cheaper. So it is very, very important that we go that way, and we have also taken on board a large number of important initiatives with the Finance Act yesterday, just as we did when we implemented the research funds. The sixth principle is that Denmark must be a driving force in international climate policy. And it's a little easier when you keep your own path clean, go out and inspire other countries, put pressure on them, and go out and make sure with climate aid that you can support it. And again, I welcome the fact that, in the last minute, we in the Finance Act have also received money for climate aid for hard, persistent work. It pays off to fight, and although you can be a pain in the ass when you do, I am delighted and hope that it will help to respond to this citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203140412	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203140427	Thank you. Violent storms, droughts, monster rains: Climate change we already feel, also here in Denmark. At the same time, science repeatedly stresses that climate change is getting worse as the planet warms up. It's serious, but in the middle of earnest, I find hope in action. It is also climate action that we must address today, because that is what the citizens' proposal is about: a Danish climate law now. There are 60,000 Danes and more who have asked us to act on the climate crisis, take responsibility and low climate action, not just climate talk. We agree with this in the SF, and we have put on the work gloves in the negotiations that are currently taking place on a new Danish climate law. There are a number of principles in the citizens' proposal with which, overall, we are very much in agreement. First of all, the first two points in the citizens' proposal refer to the need to have a climate target and to have continuous sub-targets every five years. We must have a climate target that is consistent with the responsibility we have towards the Paris Agreement, with the fair contribution we have to make to resolving the climate crisis, and therefore it is absolutely essential that the objective of a CO2 by 2030 be written into a climate law. At the same time, it is important that we do not lower the level, but raise it, and that every five years we have partial targets and that we already have a partial target in 2025. It is important that we can constantly follow up on whether we deliver climate action and not just climate talk. Paragraph 3 of the citizens' proposal provides for climate considerations to cross policy areas. Climate policy is not just energy policy, it is also transport, it is construction, it is agriculture, and that is why we are also working for a climate law that can secure climate action across sectors, both with sectoral strategies and with targets for some sectors. Paragraph 4 of the citizens' proposal underlines the important focus of having a climate council that is strong and independent. Several rapporteurs up here have already outlined that the Finance Act provides an economic boost to the Climate Council, and that matters because if there is more power in the Climate Council, they can also make better recommendations to us politicians, make instruments and look into climate policy. Points 5 and 6 of the citizens' proposal focus on Denmark investing in the development of green solutions and being a driving force in international climate policy. It is again a focus that is important, because one thing is that we have an ambitious climate target here in Denmark, we take responsibility for delivering greenhouse gas reductions, which are of course real and not bought via quotas, another is that we also have a global look at everything that goes beyond our national reduction commitment, whether it is flight, shipping, when we buy clothes and various goods produced abroad, but also how we use our voice in the world to promote the green transition, and how we also promote the fantastic energy-efficient technologies developed by Danish companies. Furthermore, it is also important that we remember that there are countries in the world that are hit harder by climate change than Denmark, but which have less money to cope with it, and therefore we must also focus on helping the vulnerable and vulnerable countries. The citizens' proposal is a good guide in the negotiations on a new climate law. The current negotiations on the Climate Act are, of course, taking seriously, and we are expecting, and we are determined to have a climate bill which, in a good way, makes this citizens' proposal and the motion for a resolution superfluous. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203140922	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203140940	Climate change is no longer a question of for or against, but of sufficient political action while time is at hand. The world's leading climate experts agree: the next 5-10 years are crucial if we are to prevent the worst consequences for people and for nature. In Denmark, we have a special responsibility to look after the climate and our planet. We are, in fact, one of the countries that, with our consumption, is the greatest burden on the climate. A strong Danish priority of the climate will inspire other countries and create Danish jobs and exports within green transition and climate adaptation. Therefore, Denmark needs a new Climate Act, which sets a clear framework for the Danish action. Denmark must set national targets that meet the Paris Agreement in the short, medium and long term. These are strong words, and although I stand here and say them, they are not mine, because that is the start of the citizens' proposal that we are discussing today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you. Thanks to all of you out there who have been school strike for the climate. Thank you to all of you who have gone on a climate march right here in front of and in other Danish cities; to those who have sent e-mails to enough of the members of parliament; to those of you who, Thursday after Thursday, have stood out in front of the entrance to the Danish Parliament and reminded us all why this is so important right now. A special thanks, of course, to those of you who have written the citizen's proposal, which helped to make the climate become a case number. 1 at the parliamentary elections. That is why we are here today, and that is also why we have now brought together a majority in the Danish Parliament on the objective of reducing our emissions by 70%. Over the next decade. I can hardly understand why we are standing here today. I am so happy about that. Thank you. Because it is not a secret that we are debating it is obvious today and in the Enhedslisten we want the agreement we are negotiating on a Climate Act to be as much as possible like this citizens' proposal. We want a binding law that means that Denmark meets the 1.5-degree objective of the Paris Agreement, a law with clear sub-targets that ensures that we get started now and not just shoot the responsibility for future generations. We want a stop to the desk exercises that do not ensure that we do reductions in Denmark, and we want climate policy to guide all policy, because all policy is climate policy. Therefore, we work in the Enhedslisten for as strong a climate law as possible. Finally, as several others have done today, I would like to mention the Finance Act which landed yesterday, because it is actually very much connected with this. Because in the Finance Act, the first steps are the first steps towards the political action that we need to see much more of in the future. It ensures a stronger climate council, it secures more money for climate assistance not enough, but it is a step; it ensures the set-up of agricultural land, green foundations and much more. These are small steps in relation to how much we have to achieve, but this will be a decisive start anyway. That is why it is also clear that we must bring up the very high level of ambition when, after New Year, we have to negotiate the action plans that will form the basis for the green transition in Denmark. That is why I would like to conclude by calling on all those who have made this citizens' proposal and made the law and the 70%. possible: You have done great, but we still need you, so please don't go home yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203141404	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203141414	Thank you. I am always particularly happy when we are dealing with citizens' proposals in this Chamber, and I am, because my party was one of the parties that helped to make the system of citizens' proposals. I think this citizen's proposal is a very good example of how it can move something and how it can help to kick-start a debate and put something really on the agenda. This citizen's proposal has really made a difference. It has made a difference for Danish politics and for the election campaign we have been through, but also for the negotiations we are sitting and are in full swing right now in the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply. So a huge thank you to those who have committed themselves to this matter, who have formulated this citizens' proposal, and who have helped influence Danish politics without even having a seat here among the 179 members, yet have been given strong impressions. So thank you so much for your efforts. With conservative glasses, there are plenty of common points in relation to the citizens' proposal, and what we conservatives might dream of seeing in a new climate law. I also have respect for the fact that we are negotiating in the Ministry these days and weeks. So I will not be superconcrete about that, but I can say something about what is important to us Conservatives. It is important for us that we have some overall, long-term objectives. We have an objective of climate neutrality, which must be in line with the Paris Agreement's maximum target. 1.5-degree temperature increase; we have a 70-percent reduction target by 2030, which is ambitious, but which could not be lower either, compared to assuming our share in relation to the Paris Agreement. That is how long-term objectives are to be achieved, but we do not believe that the long-term objectives will be achieved if we do not set ourselves some partial targets. Nor do we believe that they say that tomorrow you run a marathon. We believe that you have to start running 5 km in order to get started and get shape on course. That is why we would also like to have partial objectives. We are in favour of what the Climate Council has proposed, namely to set a new ten-year milestone every five years. We would very much like to see the first sub-target already in 2025 to ensure that we get started as soon as possible, but with respect for the fact that this may be a target zone to be indicated, with the short time horizon. We would very much like the sub-objectives that are being set to be adopted here in the Parliamentary Chamber and that there should be a majority pressing the green button in order to put it as much as possible on our legislative assembly here, so that it is not just a government decision. We want a strengthened and independent Climate Council and praise the Finance Law Parties for having found the means to strengthen the Climate Council. We want there to be some fundamental principles that must guide the green transition we are going through. In fact, it is important for us to maintain the cohesion of our society. Nor is it because I am so nervous that it is lost, but as a conservative, I have no wish that the way in which we change our society gives rise to great riots and unrest. That would be very little conservative. We have a wish that we make a green transition in an intelligent way where we are a model for the rest of the world. So we will only do so if we do it as cost-effectively as possible, but also without it costing competitive power and pushing a lot of Danish jobs out of the country. We are not a source of inspiration to the rest of the world if that is the way we do it. So it is also a crucial principle for us. It is important for us that we focus on leakage, i.e. that we not only push pollution out of the country; but it is also important for us that there is a focus on real CO2 That is how overall the things that are important to us in a climate law. We look very much forward to continuing the negotiations in the Ministry. I am sure that we will be able to reach a good compromise in which, I hope, a very, very broad majority in this Chamber can see itself. Thank you very much, however, for the efforts of the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203141826	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203141834	Thank you to the 68,500 who have lifted a climate bill into the Folketing. I really want to run around to all of you and give you a huge hug for the effort that you have made to ensure that the climate is taken seriously in a completely different way today than it did just a year ago. We can stand with a lot of reservations and say: oh, it is good that we are now negotiating. In fact, I think it is worth saying that the basis of the citizens' climate legislation is what we have to answer. The intentions for all of us who are negotiating, I think, should be that we are responding to exactly the six pillars that you have described as precisely as it can be done in this citizens' proposal. I also think it is very, very precise that a citizens' proposal has been made, which is based on the fact that it is therefore a matter of climate policy and not everything else. The starting point is that we must create the necessary reductions, that we must take part in international work in order to live up to the Paris Agreement, and not everything else. I also think that we should go with us to the negotiating table, that climate policy should be about climate policy. On the other hand, we can at the same time say that all other policies are also climate policy. But let us now focus on it in the Climate Act: it is about climate and not about everything else. Yeah, we're gonna do social redistribution. Yes, we must create jobs. Yes, we need a lot of things, but first of all we need to act on the climate crisis that is galloping out there and is already well on the way to becoming a climate disaster. I think that what is needed has been framed very well in these six pillars. Of course we have to make our goal, assuming we have a Paris agreement with a 1.5-degree target. So it's been calculated that it could be at least this 70%. in 2030. But at the same time we are also pointing out here as the second pillar to these sub-objectives, which is because we need to be kept up to act now and not always push the bill and work on to the next and the next ones again. So I also think that this is something we should take with us into the negotiating room. This is about action today and tomorrow and also in 5 years, 6 years and 7 years, and that is what the milestones are supposed to help us with. Something that I also think is worth addressing here, and which is something that is being discussed very much, is the whole sixth pillar of the proposal for a climate change law here, which is, of course, about our international commitment. For it is clear that we must act at home so that we can show people that it is possible and because we owe it to future generations and the planet, but we also owe it to us to take our historical and moral responsibility towards the rest of the world. I am thinking in particular of the developing countries, which are so much the ones who live first with the consequences and, unfortunately, also have a very large bill. So we still have an outstanding one there. Although we took a small, beautiful step with the Finance Act last night, we have an outstanding one there which needs to be answered. This citizens' proposal for a Climate Act, I really think, is the symbol of "and Mrs. Mette Abildgaard did a little bit about it" - why there is a need for us to talk democracy in new ways. Because we would not have been able to discuss this today if there had not been 68,500 signatories to the proposal. We wouldn't have been able to discuss this in the same way, including the rather strict requirements that lie in it if you hadn't signed it and pushed it on. That is why I think we should also take this as an opportunity to continue pushing our democracy so that we can respond to the climate crisis we are facing. That is why I would like to see a seventh pillar if we were to add to this citizens' climate legislation, and that is that we should set up a climate-citizen thing so that citizens can also help to develop all the action plans that we are going to do in the spring. I think it is important that we actually learn from what has happened in the last year in the area of climate policy and take that knowledge with us, and there will be a climate-citizen thing that will be absolutely, absolutely crucial. Finally, I would like to say again that it is a tremendous amount of work that you have done to all the organisations and all you citizens who have been out to get others to sign and get it pushed in here. Now we have made a Finance Act yesterday, the next step will be the Climate Act, and then there will be a piece of work where you will be as awake as you have been the last year, where you have stood on Thursday after Thursday in front of Christiansborg, where you have been on the street and have been on strike in the schools, where you have written speeches and where you have pressed, and this is about these climate action plans. Because we must have taken this very serious step in the spring. There we must take the great, great step, and unfortunately we will not do so without your help. We need the support, and we need you to hit the table and look at us seriously and say: that is not good enough, go on! 'Cause we gotta move on now. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203142357	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203142410	Thank you. New citizens do not support a climate law. New citizens do not support the forthcoming Climate Act, which is being drafted by the government. And new citizens do not support this citizens' proposal. There is already a majority of parties that have agreed to an objective of 70%, so it can be said that the aim of the citizens' proposal has already been overtaken by reality. The objective will undoubtedly be 70%. What the Climate Act is going to look like, we'll see. This citizens' proposal proposes a number of restrictions, which hopefully will not become part of the law: sub-targets for individual sectors, that for all new legislative proposals calculations should be made of consequences for CO2 The law must establish that reduction of greenhouse gases is a cross-cutting consideration which should be included in all relevant policies. That sounds incredibly rich. It sounds like every bureaucrat's dream, every socialist's dream to be controlled, regulated, planned, influenced, etc. Denmark should not lead with much greater reduction targets than other countries. For example, in the Paris Agreement, the goal for China, which is the world's largest emitter, is simply to stop increasing their emissions by 2030. There is no link at all when China's emissions have quadrupled since 1990. Besides making us poorer, it will also lead to what is called leakage. For example, if we reduce our agricultural production in Denmark, either because it is decided politically, or because it becomes too difficult for Danish farmers to compete, it does not mean that production disappears. The demand is still there, so the goods will only be produced somewhere else, and since Danish farmers are among the most efficient in the world, it will very likely lead to the production of larger CO2 The result is that the total CO2 that makes no sense. New citizens do not support the type of law being proposed here. We cannot support a law that sets an objective but does not specify how the objective is to be achieved or what it will cost. Then it is just hot air, and that applies, regardless of what the objective is. We can't sign a blank cheque. New citizens will be constructive when it comes to concrete measures. If measures make sense, we will agree with them, but we will assess them individually. New citizens' climate policy is based on reason, on scientificism and on realism. The problems must be dealt with rationally, based on scientific knowledge and documented effects. Preventing economic growth is the wrong way to deal with the problem. Only a prosperous country in economic prosperity will be able to afford new and cleaner technologies. To try to solve the problem by lowering growth is not the way forward. By bringing forward continued economic growth, there will be means to develop new and better technologies that can solve the problem in a profitable way. As a high technology country, Denmark has developed green technologies that are used all over the world. This is how we contribute best. Because there is only one way to achieve a global reduction in CO2 It is possible that Denmark and other parts of the EU will agree to lower their standard of living, but we will never talk that into, for example, the Chinese or Indians. The poor of this world want a higher standard of living, and that is a perfectly reasonable desire. CO2 Therefore, it is no use that Denmark shoots itself in the foot with unrealistic goals that no effect will have. The best thing Denmark can do is to help lower global emissions through the development of technology. Denmark has already been involved in developing technology that has displaced a discharge that is many times larger than Denmark's discharge. Therefore, it does not make sense to look at Denmark's emissions in isolation. It is a figure on a piece of paper that looks nice, but that is not what makes the most of the overall greenhouse gas emissions. New citizens cannot therefore support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203142837	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203142848	I would like to thank the many authors of the citizens' proposal whom the Liberal Alliance is very much in favour of. That is also why we are in the climate negotiations currently under way on a 70-percent reduction in climate gases emitted from Denmark by 2030. We do not know exactly what the climate change world will lead to. We do not know exactly how humanity affects the climate, but we know that humanity affects the climate. We know that emissions of climate gases all other things being equal lead to a warmer climate, and we therefore know that humanity is making its contribution to heating the planet. Next to it runs natural bikes where the climate swings and all days have done so. And how the two things relate to each other is hard to say. Therefore, from the precautionary point of view, we should do our part so that we, as people, do not lead the planet in a direction that makes it difficult for us to live here. A country like Denmark will in all likelihood not be significantly affected by a warmer climate, but in other countries it looks different and we have whole ecosystems that can suffer damage. Animals can die out and plants can die out if certain areas of the world have a significantly different climate. We therefore support the objective and believe that as politicians we should choose the most effective policies to implement a 70-percent reduction in emissions from Denmark by 2030. But climate policy cannot stand alone and there are other things that are important. If Denmark is to be a pioneering country for the whole world, it is no use making ourselves poor in the process. We in the Liberal Alliance are quite open to the fact that, in isolation, climate policy can probably lead to Denmark not achieving the growth and employment we would like to see. However, in other areas of fiscal policy, employment policy, enterprise policy, we must be all the more ambitious in order to offset the negative effects that it can have on us if we put things at a standstill with our climate policy. We thus agree with the government and with the parties with which the government has made understanding paper when they write in their understanding paper that initiatives that may reduce employment must be matched by other measures that at least increase employment accordingly. If the parties negotiating climate policy at the moment are willing to apply this principle to climate policy as well and allow us in the Liberal Alliance and other bourgeois parties to be included in an agreement containing this principle, then we are very keen to see the possibility of a climate agreement later on. If, on the other hand, the Red parties want to have that principle for themselves, so that they can decide to put it out of effect if they agree on it at some point in the future, and therefore will not write it into the Climate Act, then we look at it differently. We want a good and sensible climate policy that reduces emissions by 70%. in 2030, goes hand in hand with the fact that we still have a growing society, and that is why we want this principle also to be introduced into the Climate Act. Thank you for the citizens' proposal, which we can largely support. Now we will see how the climate negotiations are going over in the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203143310	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203143456	I would like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 5 December 2019. The first thing that needs to happen now is that the rapporteur for the questioners is given the opportunity to justify the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203143526	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, we have chosen to call the Minister for this inquiry debate with the wording: "How will the Minister ensure that citizens who have been exposed to an accident at work do not have to wait for years to get the final decision in their case of occupational injury?" ▪ Too many people get caught up in the work injury system. It is absolutely crucial that we have a work injury system that works, and here we in the Danish People's Party can see that the way it works today is both inadequate and unacceptable for the many victims. For far too long, they are in an unhappy situation where their cause of occupational injury has not been resolved, including their loss of earning capacity. In addition, the ill-treated early-retired flexible job scheme also plays a role, as a citizen today can be granted temporary flexible jobs for 5 years, and this has the consequence of AES dragging the case of loss of professional capacity into a long period, and often the citizen gets the message: We have made a temporary decision in your case regarding loss of professional capacity; your compensation will be reduced, and we will start processing your case again in 1 year's time. And so it can continue for many years for people who have gone wrong at work and have a cause of occupational injury running. The National Audit Office's report, published in November 2019 with the comments of the National Auditors, finds it unsatisfactory that the Ministry of Employment and the AES have not ensured that the employees' injuries are treated in accordance with the statutory deadlines. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that the work injury system that exists today should be corrected. This is not a new issue, and unfortunately no action has been taken which has benefited the victims. We look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203143726	Thank you for that, and the next person to be given the opportunity is the Minister for Employment, who then answers the question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203143738	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party for calling it here, in my opinion at least, very important question debate on the processing times of the occupational injury system. The processing times are an important issue, which is why I have also invited the Parliamentary Employment Committee to a technical review at the end of December. No injured person should wait unnecessarily long for a decision in their case of occupational injury. A work injury can be a great strain in itself, and long processing time creates even greater insecurity and uncertainty that can make it difficult for injured persons to move forward in life. It is therefore crucial that we politicians work together on a system of occupational injury that supports quicker clarification in industrial injury cases. At the same time, however, it is important that there is high quality in the procedure. Decisions must not be quick at all costs. I would like to start by stating that it is not an easy task to reduce the processing times significantly, but it is a job that I would very much like to address. And that presupposes that you, as rapporteurs, are involved in the work. I am convinced that we will have the longest time to work together towards a common goal, namely a better system of occupational injury. A unanimous Parliament has already taken the first steps towards simpler procedures in the field of occupational injury, which include: is intended to reduce processing time. From New Year more accidents at work can again be recognised as occupational injuries. This happens after a Supreme Court ruling, which tightened the criteria for recognition in 2013, so that accidents at work can only be recognised when injured persons have been following the injury or where treatment is necessary to recover from New Year. Because if you are injured in your work, it must of course be recognised as an occupational injury. But it is clear that it remains a requirement, of course, that there is a link between the damage that has been done and the incident that has led to the accident. The amendment applies to all new accidents occurring from 1 January. The social security system will also be able to take a decision on recognition without a decision on the possible consequences of the damage. This means that, as an injured person in the future, it will be possible to know more quickly whether your injury is due to work so that the individual no longer has to wait for the compensation and compensation issues to be resolved. At the same time, the Danish Parliament has given the social security system the opportunity to amend all parts of the decision itself when they receive a complaint. Today it is the case that decisions decided by an estimate must be submitted to the Ankestyrelsen for consideration, regardless of the fact that this is clearly a miscalculation. This is unfortunate for the injured person because it often means extended processing time and a more incalculable process, and it is also becoming more expensive for the insurance company or the labour market insurance. At the same time, the amendment ensures that the Ankestyrelsen can deal with uncomplicated complaints a little more quickly, because these cases can in future be decided administratively instead of at a meeting. As I mentioned earlier, this is an area that I want to address. However, the area of occupational injury is a complex area and I am convinced that there is a need for broad cooperation among the rapporteurs in order to get the best solutions. I also find that there is a wide demand for it. For me, it is absolutely crucial that we have a system of occupational injury that will help the citizens if they are so unlucky to be injured as a result of their work. Long processing time can put the individual injured in an economically and workly vulnerable situation which can make it difficult to move forward. It is therefore, of course, not at all satisfactory that the Reichsaudit concludes in their recently published report that compliance with the time limits for the proceedings has not been sufficiently ensured. I have also noted that productivity has been decreasing in labour market security. On the basis of the National Audit Office's report, the National Auditors point out that the Ministry of Employment should improve the framework and labour market security should work to strengthen cooperation with external actors with a view to receiving information more quickly. I agree that there is a need to look at how processing times can be further reduced. I would therefore like to discuss the conclusions of the National Audit Office with the Board of Directors of Labour Market Insurance. In my statement to the National Auditors, I would like to explain the measures and considerations which the Reichsaudit report has given rise to. When the statement is available, I will send it to the Folketing. At the same time, I think it is worth noting that the survey also shows that processing times have decreased in the labour market's occupational security. This is a positive development that must continue. There are some cases that take longer to clarify than others. It's about cases where there's a loss of professional capacity. Unfortunately, this means that the most vulnerable and injured are often waiting the longest for a decision. This is because a case of occupational injury, as the rules are today, can only be concluded once the health and occupational situation of the citizen has been clarified. The social security system must not take a final decision in unsolved cases, therefore it is often injured with serious damage that has to wait longer for a decision. Temporary decisions will be reviewed on a regular basis until the situation of the citizen has been clarified and a final decision can be taken. These cases are also characterised by the fact that social security must obtain a great deal of information from external actors, for example: health authorities and municipalities. The National Audit Review examines this in their report and concludes that two thirds of the processing times in a work injury case are due to await information from external actors. This is thought-provoking and I would ask the Labour Market Insurance Board to look into possible solutions to reduce this part of the processing time. Many temporary decisions and lay-out time in the labour market's occupational security are major reasons why some injured people experience long cases. It can be a great psychological strain on the injured and can become an obstacle to the individual's well-being and ability to return to a working community. We cannot be familiar with that. Having said that, the quality of the procedure must of course also be in order, so that the decisions taken by the social security system are correct and on an adequate basis. Our task is therefore to find a balance where quality and efficiency can go hand in hand, so that the strain of having a work injury does not get worse by experiencing unnecessarily long-term proceedings. This is why modernising the occupational injury system is at the heart of this government. Modernisation of the occupational injury system has long been on the political agenda. It is a complex task and there are many ends to meet. But it is an important task and action is needed. That is why it is the Government's ambition that we initiate and implement initiatives for a simplified system and faster procedures. I will discuss this work with the parties of the Folketing, and I will therefore invite you to a meeting by June 2020. For the area of occupational injury, there must also in future be an area marked by solutions achieved in agreement, where parties pull out and join forces to implement necessary and good solutions in the field of occupational injury. This must also be done jointly with the social partners and the occupational injury authorities. I am confident that it will succeed, but it requires the will and action of all parties. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that I will speed up the further work on modernising the occupational injury system, and I look forward to our lifting in flock. This is an important condition for the victims to move forward with their lives and to maintain their links with the labour market, with the constraints that the occupational injury has unhappily caused. We have a joint responsibility to ensure the best framework for occupational injury treatment in Denmark. Thank you for the floor, and thank you again for taking the initiative in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203144606	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203144610	Thank you for the Minister's speech, and thank you for the Minister's courtesy, for the fact that this is an important task to be resolved, because there are a great many citizens who are in a hurry and who cannot get their insurance paid out. They're in this void. But I would like to ask the Minister about the early retirement and flexible job reform. Because it is the case today, as I also mentioned in my explanatory statement to the question, that you can draw it for up to five years. While the 5 years are running, citizens often get the message again and again: we wait because you are not clear. And then you can drive back and forth like that. What does the Minister think about that? Has the Minister thought that it is also necessary to look at the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs in connection with temporary flex jobs, namely that this is also a factor affecting the cause of occupational injury?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203144702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203144704	In any case, I would like to say so much that it has certainly not ever been the idea behind the early retirement and flexible job reform that it could be used as a pretext for dragging the process into delay. This is one of the areas that I clearly believe should be looked at, i.e. whether there is a link between long processing times and that it takes a long time to be clarified for flex jobs. At the same time, I would say that if in the flex-job reform, when it was made, some inappropriate things had to be hidden there, then it is escaping that I have indicated that we must have a meeting between the parties, at least by the summer of next year, when the collective bargaining negotiations are also over, and we must therefore expect the parties to have plenty of time to take part in those discussions as well. But before that, we in the government have started a critical review, and hopefully we are also in the process of negotiating with the parties on a critical review of the early retirement and flexible job reform. I think that those things should also be considered in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203144825	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. In the next round, there are the usual two questions. The minister will return later. Then we start the negotiations and the first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203144858	Thank you. In the last session I sat on the Employment Committee, and I received a great many requests from people regarding their occupational injury • all unhappy and in a tragic situation with concerns for their future. I thought we should do better as a society. And I thought that this is why we in the Danish People's Party should press for a better system. I actually thought that work had been started, but I just have to say that it is and has been a slow process which has not been of benefit to those who are trapped in this slow system. The other day, I got a message from Susanne. She had complained about her case to the Ankestyrelsen. It took a year. It was then referred back to AES, Labour Market Insurance, and then she was told that it could take another year. This is how it goes back and forth for people who have suffered an occupational injury. I would just like to say that what the rapporteur says here from the platform is quite important, so the Minister can keep up. It is unreasonable and inhumane. I have experienced cases that have taken more than 10 years and every year the compensation is reduced. That is why I also asked the Minister about this: how many cases are being postponed time and time again, including how many cases are being reduced time and time again, and how many cases have been postponed due to temporary flex jobs. I would like to read a quote from the answer given by the Minister: AES has indicated that it is not separately recorded whether the injured person has a temporary flex job. It is therefore not possible to determine how many cases the final decision in the case of occupational injury has been postponed on the basis of a temporary flex job. Moreover, it is not possible to determine how many cases AES has downgraded the loss of professional capacity of the injured person in accordance with § 17a in relation to a temporary decision on temporary flexible jobs. That is what the Minister said. It would have been interesting to follow, but unfortunately it is not possible at this stage. In July, I put this question to the Minister for Employment: will the Minister change the system of occupational injury so that the cause of occupational injury for citizens is not delayed and ensure that it does not affect the length of the occupational injury case that a citizen has been granted a temporary flexible job? The minister replied: we have a responsibility to help the people who are injured in their work. This means, first and foremost, that we must make an effort to ensure that there is a good working environment in the workplace which prevents and minimises the risk of damage. This also means, however, that we need to set up the occupational injury system in such a way as to take account of the needs of the individual in the best possible way. We must avoid people who can and will work being stuck in the system while waiting for a decision in their case of occupational injury. It is therefore important that the system is designed so that you can get as quick a clarification of your occupational injury case as possible. In general, the processing times in recent years have been decreasing, but I believe that this is an area that still deserves focus. A quick and correct procedure will be able to get some people back into jobs more quickly. This will contribute to the common welfare, but also be crucial to the well-being of the individual. As the rules now stand, the occupational security of the labour market, AES, can only make a final decision on compensation for loss of occupational capacity once the occupational situation of the injured person is stable and clarified, and this means that there may sometimes be a long period of time when the AES must take temporary decisions, such as: is the case if the injured person receives unemployment benefit or is employed in a temporary flex job. I understand that is a difficult situation to be in. That was the Minister's answer. So here too I did not make any progress in my questions to the Minister, which is why my patience is now exhausted. That is why I want action from the Minister, and that is why we have called this question debate. For how long is it reasonable to wait? The other day it was the Minister's colleague from Funen. Jan Johansen, who was out commenting on one of these cases where someone had to leave the house and home and the family had to move. That is simply not fair to the people who are exposed to an occupational injury. That is why I want a better system. We in the Danish People's Party want that, and now the Minister has said that he will convene a meeting by June 2020. We look forward to it. We would like it to be a little earlier. But I also think that there must already be work in the Ministry, because it was done before the Minister for Employment came to that post. But I look forward to having a good debate and I hope that we can do even better together for those who have suffered an accident at work or have suffered an occupational injury. Because what is happening today is not satisfactory for them. Thank you for the floor. That fg. President. - Thank you very much, Mrs Adsbøl. I have a proposal for adoption. Why don't I read it? May I? That fg. President Definitely, that's clear. ) That's good. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government by June 2020 to invite a meeting to modernise the legislation on occupational injury, including work on significantly shortening the processing time. People who have been injured at work should not wait unnecessarily long for a decision on their industrial injury. Long processing time may put the individual injured in an economically and workly vulnerable situation. It is therefore essential that the occupational injury system supports rapid clarification in occupational injury cases and, at the same time, there is a high quality in the processing process. The National Audit Office has just examined the processing times in the area of occupational injury. The National Audit Office points out that the processing times have fallen but remain long. The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister for Employment will follow up on the Reichsaudit's report and continue the work in the forthcoming negotiations. V 23.)
ParlaMint-DK_20191203145527	Thank you. Will the rapporteur tell me who put forward this proposal for adoption? Karina Adsbøl Yes, it is a joint proposal for adoption and, as far as I understand it, all the parties are behind the adoption. ) All parties? Karina Adsbøl Yes. ) Thank you for that. I would like to thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl and warmly welcome the next rapporteur, Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203145556	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this very important question and for highlighting an area that is important for a great many people. I would also like to thank the other rapporteurs and the other parties for supporting the proposal for adoption which has just been read out. It must be safe and healthy to go to work. That may sound a little overwhelmed, because we have said it before, and we say it a lot of times, but we do, because it is both important and right, because no one should be harmed by their work. We together make great efforts to ensure that jobs in Denmark can be as secure as possible, but nevertheless thousands of employees in Danish companies, public and private, are worn out or affected by an occupational injury every year. For social democracy, therefore, it is essential that we have a good and fast system for dealing with the causes of industrial injury. It is important for me to stress that long processing times in industrial injury cases are a major problem, both for the individual affected by an accident at work and for our society in greater perspective. When you are affected by an accident at work, you need rapid clarification, and long waiting times, sometimes years, create both great uncertainty, but too many people are also prevented from moving on with their lives while waiting for the decision. There is no doubt that we are in a very difficult situation, both in terms of work and in terms of economics, waiting for our decision, and we must do everything we can, from a political point of view, to help the victims to the best possible extent. It is basically about trust in our welfare societies. Everyone who goes to work every day and gives theirs to society should know that they can be confident that the safety net will catch them if the accident is out and they get hurt. You can rightly expect that in a society like ours. That means, among other things, that... It is a matter of urgency that we receive the compensation to which we are entitled, so that we can get back to work as soon as possible, as far as is possible. Unfortunately, that is not the case today with the long waiting times, and we must have done something about that. However, it is important to make it clear that it is not just a matter of speed in the procedure, because it does not help very much to get a quick decision if it is not the correct one, and we must not fall into the trap of looking only at waiting times and contenting ourselves if they come down far enough, because it is important to have a case settled quickly, but quality must keep up. It cannot be emphasised enough that the decision must be correct. No one is served by going into lengthy appeals and prolonging the already uncertain situation. It's self-evident. In the Social Democratic Party we look forward to getting the work started to review the whole area of occupational injury, both because the processing times for a number of years under changing governments have not been satisfactory, but also because the big focus on compensations has removed the focus from getting those who are injured back on track in life and, if possible, back to work again. Quite frankly, I am a little embarrassed that we have not been able to do anything about it a long time ago, because it is in everyone's interest not least the many thousands who are unfortunately affected every year by an accident at work that we find a solution. But it is, after all, better to get off late than never to get off the ground. The Social Democratic Party supports requiring the government, before the end of this session, to start work on modernising the legislation on occupational injury, including work to reduce the length of proceedings considerably, and it is my hope that with the work now under way, we will be able to ensure that people who have suffered an accident at work will, in future, deal with their claims more quickly and, of course, properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150004	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150011	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for his speech. I note that the rapporteur said that the rapporteur was ashamed of it. I understand that, because what is happening at the moment is simply not worthy, and it is of course also my hope that we can do this even better together. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur also believes that the early-flex reform has a role to play in ensuring that it can always be postponed when a temporary flexible job has been created. I think that the rapporteur has been sitting in this area for quite some time and has a good knowledge of what the citizens are addressing the rapporteur. So perhaps the rapporteur could comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150055-2	When I say I'm embarrassed, it's actually because it's just been a long time and we've been talking about this for many, many years, and we haven't been able to move on. Years ago we were hit by the fact that the Danish Labour Injuries Board actually completely destroyed the case and that it was necessary to remove the case from the Danish Labour Injuries Board. That has given us a big bump in relation to the processing times. With regard to whether the early and flexible job reform should have an impact on this, I will almost lean on what the Minister said, namely that nobody has thought of it. But I also hear that the Minister says that there is a possibility of temporary decisions. Then I know that, as an occupational injurer, you may not be able to use a temporary decision for anything other than that you have at least some kind of economy. But I do not think that anyone has been sitting and thinking or having woke up in the morning and said: Now we are making an agreement on early retirement and flexible work, and then we have to damn well excuse, President, for bothering as many people who have a job injury case as possible. I simply do not believe that. At least this has not been the case for the Social Democrats. I think that when we begin a review of the entire occupational injury system, we will also look at that part and get it right and see if there are any connections. There may be other contexts than the one mentioned here by the rapporteur, which we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150224	Yeah, I get that. There may be a lot of things involved and many factors involved, but what I would like to hear from the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur will now also keep the minister in his ears so that something happens in this area. I know that we have together made a proposal for adoption that says that it should be by 2020, and it was also to do so as widely as possible, but it is certainly important that the work is already under way now and that it is also the case with the early and flexible job reform that is being examined. Because it is the case that when you say it is temporary, it can continue, and the Minister himself has acknowledged this in an answer to you. So will the rapporteur keep his minister in his ears?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150306	I think that the questioner should take note of what I said in my speech, namely that the Social Democrats support the idea of requiring the government to proceed. And when I say this from the platform, it means we expect the government to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150324	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. And a warm welcome to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150345	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this question. This creates an important debate in which we are happy to take part. For us in the Left, it is important that we continue to work to improve the safety of our jobs, and we are fortunately doing so. But it is also important that those who are so unlucky to get hurt or seriously injured at work can get clarification that does not drag on. That is why we are here today. Unfortunately, we are regularly confronted with sad stories about people where the processing times go much further than they should. This can have major consequences for the individual, both in relation to the individual's economic situation, quality of life and in relation to the labour market. We certainly can't be familiar with that. That's not good enough. Having said that, however, we still see some positive trends in this area. Since 2016, when Labour Market Occupational Insurance took over the task of handling occupational injuries from the Danish Labour Protection Agency, overall there has been a positive development in the proportion of cases that comply with the time limits set by law. That's a good thing. However, we still have major and obvious problems in this area. Productivity in the injury treatment process is remarkably low, and it rubs off on the individual who is waiting for the decision in his injury case. There are still far too few cases of occupational injury which remain within the deadlines laid down, and too much of the time goes on waiting for information from different actors. That's not good enough. There is therefore still much work to be done. In the Left we are ready to contribute to the work, and we would very much like to enter into a dialogue on how the government, with the support of the Danish Parliament, best tackles the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150537	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. This means that the rapporteur can go down from the platform. Christian Juhl sits in the chair, but is also the rapporteur. That's why we've made a little rocade, so it's now Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, as rapporteur, because of the kindness of the rapporteurs he is now skipping. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203150601	And because of the kindness of Mr. Bent Bøgsted, now acting as chairman. Thank you so much. The problems raised by the National Audit Office and the State Auditors in their report are quite serious. In fact, we should not discuss such problems in a modern society like ours at all. It should be the case that any company could plan its production so that no work injury occurs. That is, of course, the objective objective objective for any business operator, or at least it should be. I would say that prevention is the alpha and the omega, and if it does not succeed, we must try to make it as easy and simple as possible for the people who suffer, to get back on their feet or to get to the right place if it is a replacement and a pension or a flexible job that is necessary. We must also thank the trade unions in this situation. They carry out a very, very large task which, objectively speaking, should lie with the public authorities. A system of occupational injury should be so easy to understand and simple that every citizen should be able to report his or her occupational injury with his or her employer and have it resolved relatively quickly without being in doubt over and over again. It is so complicated a piece of legislation and so complicated texts that you have to have either a lawyer or a union at your side when you have to run a job injury case. It is almost one hundred percent certain that one loses one's cause of occupational injury in whole or in part if one tries to run it on one's own. We then have a situation where there are indecently long processing times and too poor quality in the system. This means that many people actually get sick from walking and waiting and living in unsolvedness. Why has this situation arisen? Yes, there are several reasons for this. We left this assignment to ATP. At that time, the government at that time claimed that ATP had many years of experience in large numbers of cases and therefore they would be really, really good at it. Then they set up an independent institution under the ATP, AES. For the time being, no significant improvement has been achieved. It is not only the transfer to ATP that is the reason. The relocation, which was the less clever decision of the previous government, and I would almost say foolish decision, was an attempt without cause to move jobs out of the capital. There may be factual reasons for this, but in this case there was only one reason, namely that the Left believed that it would be possible to optimize voting by moving jobs to, for example. Vordingborg and Haderslev and Hillerød. It was a foolish decision, and it meant that very, very many of the most talented people resigned from their position in the Labour Damage Board and AES, as it is now called. This means that we had a huge loss of experienced employees, who could have done a top-trimmed casework, and a need arose to teach new people. It is clear that it results in a loss of pace and it results in worse service. At that time, we warned the Left Government against this and said that this will have consequences. But would they listen? No. I can't see the bell here. There's something ahead. President There are 11⁄2 minutes left). Thank you. Every year there are 33,000 cases that need to be dealt with and, as I said before, these long processing times can have negative consequences for the individual injured. Often we see psychic stress on an enormous scale. We see people who have to go from house to home along the way in such a process. We're seeing divorces. And we see people who get a lot, much more sick than they were when the case started. I would say that the Minister for Employment is trying to explain that there has been a strengthening of quality. I question that. What is it based on? At least that cannot be read immediately, because then there would be fewer appeals. I am well aware that we have put in place a supplementary legislation to correct this. There has been a change in the case law. Yeah, that's absolutely right. We employed 100 extra people, but I guess it shouldn't affect the day-to-day work when we've hired the 100 extra people. Then it takes time to obtain papers from external actors. It's nothing new. It certainly cannot be used as an excuse. It's been like that all day. And then there's the relocation. I believe that we are in fact finding one of the main reasons why we have ended up here. In short, we must therefore have found some qualified people who will work within this system. We need to get the system to man up and ensure that everyone gets a high quality and fast and effective processing. That's the job, sir. Minister, and the other explanations seem to me to be irrelevant. And that's where we have to say it's not gonna work! I'm sorry, I can't do this!
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151112	We thank the rapporteur. We're trying to reboot the clock here so it can work again. However, there are no questions for the rapporteur, so we move on to the next rapporteur. It is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151134	Thank you, President, for the floor, and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for raising this debate. I do not want to go into any further details about the November report by the National Audit Office, but it stresses the need for us to look at the long waiting period in industrial injury cases. We must, of course, strive to ensure that people who are injured at work get a quick and correct decision so that they can be compensated as they are entitled to. It is a vulnerable situation for a person to find himself in when one's income base changes, and a prolonged processing time merely creates more uncertainty. And that is why we also agree with the desire to examine the possibility of reducing waiting times in industrial injury cases. This should be done in accordance with the AES' focus on strengthening the quality of the case management, which is also an important criterion to keep in mind. However, I hope that with the modernisation of the legislation on occupational injuries, we can make quality and speedy processing go hand in hand. The Reichsaudit report emphasises that, although the waiting time in industrial injury cases is still higher than is reasonable, AES has actually succeeded in reducing the waiting time, while the Ministry of Employment and AES have expressed a strong desire to strengthen quality. So it seems that a balance can be struck between the two. With this in mind, the Radical Left will look forward to the Minister calling for discussions on how we can ensure that people affected by occupational injury are clarified more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151322	Thank you very much to Mrs Samira Nawa and warmly welcome to Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151331	Thank you, sir. President. First of all, I would like to thank DF's Karina Adsbøl for raising this important request. For SF, it is essential that people who are injured in their work should not suffer further at extremely long processing times. You don't need to be double-punished. It is simply not fair, and we cannot be familiar with this in the Danish welfare society. We recognise that processing times have decreased in the labour market's occupational security, but they are still very long, especially in cases where an appeal is lodged. SF has e.g. recently asked questions to the Minister because we have seen a case with a sosu assistant from Kerteminde, who almost had to leave home because of the lack of income, because her case is now dragging on in the fifth year. Here we must strengthen the legal certainty of our citizens. We therefore welcome it when the Minister initiates a future debate on the area of occupational injury. Because there is clearly a need to rectify this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151444	Thank you very much, Mrs Halime Oguz. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151500	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the question debate, a relevant and important debate. Indeed, it is important that citizens who have been exposed to an accident at work should be able to find out quickly about their cause of occupational injury, and we, as politicians, must not be satisfied that citizens who have been exposed to an accident at work have to go for as long as they have not known whether they have been bought or sold, as is the case today. According to a figure from Labour Market Occupational Insurance, the average length of proceedings for recognised occupational injuries and occupational losses was 23 months in the third quarter of 2019. Nevertheless, TV 2/Fyn was able to report back in October about Jette, who has been waiting for five years for clarification as to whether or not she can be compensated for her shoulder injury. An example such as this, where we have a citizen who has been waiting for five years to settle an occupational injury case, I hope that we can all agree that is unacceptable. That is why I think the question debate is important. I also think it is important that we have a proposal for adoption whereby the Minister is obliged to convene a meeting on the subject so that we can see if we can reduce the processing times much more than today. Otherwise, I think it has been a fine debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151637	You're welcome, sir. Naser Khader, and warm welcome to Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151649	Thank you, President, and thank you to DF and myrtle Karina Adsbøl for having arranged this relevant query. There are 33,000 occupational injuries cases a year in Denmark, as far as I can read the figures, and on average you wait 8 months to settle them, and you can wait as much as 23 months, and if you are not satisfied with your case, you can complain to the Ankestyrelsen and wait another 13 months. So it is a marathon journey when it is the case that you have been injured, and of course it should not be, and it is totally untenable. It's obvious that some of these cases are relatively simple. Well, we're talking about what doesn't work today, we're not talking about everything that works, so we shouldn't just say it doesn't work. It works relatively simply if you are an expert in interpreting rules and laws and have extremely good patience, and not many have and are. After all, many people find it extremely difficult to understand and interpret the rules relating to the treatment of occupational injuries, and the same people may not always have the greatest patience, since they are just injured, which can have all kinds of consequences and consequences for their health and their health, for example. Long-term pain, which should further mean that this should be resolved more quickly so that those people can move forward in their lives. So I think it is a good thing that the DF is putting this matter properly on the agenda of the Minister for Employment, and that a specific meeting has even been set in place in order to move it forward here in the proposal for adoption, for which there is full political support in this Chamber, and I am very pleased that the Minister from this platform has just said that modernisation of the work injury system has a high priority and early, as far as I understood, during this period of government. The Minister knows very well that the table in this Chamber is holding the chair, or whatever it is called, so we look forward very much to getting started on the negotiations here in the Alternative. There's enough to do, both to reduce these waiting times and to try to write these rules in a way so that people are actually able to understand what's going on. Then I also noticed one thing which probably surprised many people or it surprised me at least, namely that, as far as I understand it, there are two thirds of the waiting time due to waiting for information from external actors. That's ridiculous. So that tells me that there is at least something to do here. At least there's something we can do about it. Of course, we support the proposal for adoption in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151923	Thank you for that and warmly welcome to Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203151934	Thank you. One of the things that actually made me enter politics was that I experienced a system that was put in place before the citizen. My intention to stand here today is not to point the finger at different governments who have done what they have done, but it was, after all, a subjective experience that I had as a citizen, that things that should be possible could not be done, and that people who had experienced misfortune and such things in life and tried to guard themselves against it, even though it is not possible to guard against it, experienced a system that became a opponent, instead of a system that became a co-player. And it's wrong. I have no other word for it; it's just wrong. I think you can measure a society by how to help people who need it. We are a people who are proud to be on their own, and many Danes want to be on their own, and they do not really want to be dependent on the public and dependent on help, but when it falls, and it does, it can fall for all of us at any time. When we look at the processing times in this particular case and when we look at how it has worked, it hasn't been good enough, and I think it's still not good enough, and I'm glad that there seems to be a broad understanding that we have to do better. I also welcome the fact that the Minister is calling for talks and discussions on this. Now I'm new to politics, but I'm just thinking that summer 2020's gonna be a long time. And I know a minister is busy, but I hope that when you look at the calendar, you can see that this is some of the things we might be able to move forward. I can at least say from here that I will clear my calendar to come and participate in these things, because if we do not start until the summer of 2020, there are, before it starts, a lot of people who are still going to be in a squeeze out there. I think they want us in here to react a little more quickly to such cases... these are cases that really hurt the individual out there... because it's, after all, our biggest commitment in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152210	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. And I don't see any representatives from the Liberal Alliance. Does anyone wish to speak for the Liberal Alliance? There isn't. Then we go to the Minister for Employment, and after him there are usually two questions not only per person. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). each of those present in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152237	Thank you for that and thank you for a good and constructive debate which shows me that we are very much in agreement. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the Danish People's Party, as others have rightly said, for raising this debate today and, above all, thank you to an entirely unanimous Parliament which is behind the proposal for adoption, which is, like, the end of the discussion here. I hope that it can give us the necessary and common ground to pull the work clothes and find the good solutions that can create a good and new foundation for the work injury system. I do not want to hide it, and I also said in my opening speech that it is a difficult task and that there is no quick solution, but where there is a will, there is also a way. In the short run, I look forward to a dialogue with the Labour Market Insurance Board on the conclusions of the Danish National Audit Office, and I look forward to the technical review of processing times in the field of occupational injury at the end of December, to which I invited the Employment Committee in the Danish Parliament. In the slightly longer run, the work on modernising the occupational injury system must be started and, as has already been said, and as the proposal for adoption also makes clear, I would like to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to a meeting by June 2020 and that also has been said to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and others who have mentioned it in the course of the debate: this is neither because of calendar challenges nor because of unwillingness, it is true, among other things. It should be borne in mind that the meeting must also be held by agreement and in agreement with a number of parties before the summer, but be after the collective bargaining process, since much of the material is complex, but the input of the parties must also be taken into account in these discussions. That is why, at least on the part of the government, we have said that, in order to get the process started as well as possible, we have to put it after collective bargaining. So it is definitely not because we cannot find a time before, but it is to find that space before summer, after collective bargaining. I believe that with that meeting we can start discussions on starting up and getting to grips with the difficult work, which we must also be honest to say, without pointing our finger at any government, either one or the other, because it actually applies across the board, and this goes back a long way back to being tried through several rounds and which many people have broken their necks on. But I believe and hope that, with the common will and the spirit of cooperation that has at least been expressed in this debate, we will be able to achieve it jointly, and that will take time, and that will require us to commit ourselves to solving it together. When it becomes difficult, we must remember that the good solutions are rarely the easy solutions, but I am absolutely convinced that precisely on this point, fortunately, as on other points too, there is a common will in the Folketing to make it significantly better so that we can reduce the processing times so that people who are in the unhappy situation to get hurt at their work can also get a proper and prompt clarification of their situation. So I would just like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for having called this debate and thank all the parties of the Danish Parliament for the statements that have been made today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152603	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152607	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. In the Danish People's Party we have plenty of will, but not always plenty of patience. We would like to see, as has already been said in the debate, a system that puts the citizen first, that is to say, that puts the citizen ahead of the system; that is the way it can be said. But I'd like to hear something. When we talk about the average processing time, we know that this is the average time, but how do we actually calculate the processing time? So, when is it to be counted off, and when is it to be considered closed? Because it may be a little difficult to see through when you get a temporary decision that you complain about, and then there will be a year in the Ankestyrelsen; then it will be returned to AES, and then it will take a year before they answer, and then it may be that you have reduced your ability to work again. And that's how you can commute back and forth into the system. So when we talk about the processing time, what is it measured from?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152712	In other words, without wishing to put my head entirely on the block, I think I must promise Mrs Adsbøl just to give a written answer on the precise nature of the matter, my immediate memory is that it is measured from the request for compensation made until the matter is closed. But it is with all possible reservations and I promise to send a written answer and promise to return to it if it is okay with Mrs Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152752	Well, of course. I would ask for the reply in writing, or maybe the Minister's officials have noted it down. Then I would like to hear about the intervening period. It is true that we have a date now, and it is always good to have a date and to get something started as rapporteur, because then we know that something is happening, because then the Minister is obliged to act. But what about the intermediate period in relation to the processed? As the Minister said, it has been tried several times and its neck has been broken. So there's work to be done. Is the Minister doing this now and what does the Minister think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152835	I would like to assure Mrs Karina Adsbøl that we are doing so. In fact, I think that there are a great many elements on which we can already start to consider them in depth, among others. I mentioned this myself in my speech, and Mr. Torsten Gejl also referred to it in his remarks: 'In the terrible situation of two thirds of the waiting period obtaining information from other authorities, it is quite paradoxical. After all, there is a lot of work that can seem like low-hanging fruits to pick, in other words, in order to get authorities to talk better and work better together. That's one of them. Some of the things I think we can use the waiting period, also under the auspices of the Ministry, to give us thorough consideration. And as I said, there's part of this work that also involves the parties. That is why we have said, at least on the part of the Ministry of Employment, that it is best to start work officially only after collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152939	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203152942	Thank you. Well, that's a little something compared to this intermediate period. For some of what really hurts is the economy of some of these people. And now we saw an earlier proposal that, in relation to benefits, a temporary benefit has been granted until there is a committee of inquiry which comes out on how the level of benefits should be. So I would like to ask whether the Minister thinks that something similar could be necessary. Or if you've been thinking about whether you could extend some kind of safety net to some of these people who are the victims of this incredibly long processing time so maybe they shouldn't leave house and home, as we've heard about cases of • who have had fatal consequences and sometimes whole break-up in families, i.e. due to a long processing time. Is there any economic way to solve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153037	I understand, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's thought. The challenge is, of course, that in many of these cases there are many cases and that is what is so dreadfully waiting for too long and their cause of occupational injury has not yet been clarified. There are several people who have referred to the story that TV 2/Fyn also had. It is difficult to pay some form of temporary compensation at a time when the loss of earning capacity has not yet been resolved, but I understand perfectly well the thinking. On the other hand, I would like to say that a number of decisions have already been taken. I also referred to this in my introductory speech, which will take effect from 1 January, and which will hopefully also have the effect that the processing times will have another close down, while as Minister for Employment I will make an even greater effort to ask AES to tighten the bar dunes on all possible points.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153138	Nor do I believe that benefits should be provided in advance which are not known whether they should be provided. But it could be that some kind of loan was secured. There may be some who say that they cannot get a loan from their bank. It might well be a scheme in which it was said that it could be an offer to some that they could get a low-interest loan of a certain amount just to be able to get through these two to three months until a decision was made. Sometimes it may be that they can actually look out for the problems of everyday life in a difficult course of illness, because they are still a little secure. It may be money they are going to pay back, but if the bank says no, then it is such a thing that can worsen the disease when they are in a difficult situation. So it could also be another bid, and perhaps that is something we can bring into the negotiations when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153225	In the second question, speaking time is only 1⁄2 minutes and the second answer is also only 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153245	I will certainly not stand by and reject ideas that could come into play when we start discussing this. I would just like to say that today it is only in limited areas that the state grants loans to citizens, but I understand perfectly well the thinking, and I would say that I think there can be every possible reason to discuss it when we sit at a table together. Now we have to have that review in the Employment Committee here later, and we can try to look at the figures, because how many families are exactly in this situation, where you end up getting the compensation that you have asked for and then in the intervening period lack money? There may be some factual things that may just be good reason to be informed before we have the debate. But that is something we can at least be asked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153344	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153347	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and also to the opening speech, which shows that something is happening after all, and that is also why the Danish People's Party has raised this question debate. What remains, of course, is that the Minister says that sometime next year there will be negotiations in relation to making some improvements, so that we will have a shorter processing time. I would like to ask: what is the Minister's aim in the negotiations? In other words, do you have any figures as to how far down time is supposed to come? I also mention this because the Minister is well aware of it; we also mentioned it in the past; often in some of these cases, the Compensation Board can only take this seriously when the case of the occupational injury has been settled. That's why I'm thinking, couldn't we do it a little better? Couldn't we do it a little faster? Does the Minister have any more concrete ambitions in relation to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153449	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup in that we should not just, but must Already in the last period there was a lot of criticism about AES and for good reason, even then of the long processing times. I know that the government at that time has tried to get to grips with the problem by various means. We and I have indicated to the AES that more needs to be done. Fortunately, the processing times are falling, but still have not gone far enough. So I clearly believe that there is a basis for more work to be done, and that must be the ambition of this reform. It's also the hard part, that is, since you haven't done it in nearly three periods when the Folketing has been together. This should be a common ambition, but I find it difficult to set a target figure for how long the processing time should be, but that it should be shorter, I think, quite obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153558	Before we go any further, the President must always make a positive contribution to the information. After all, there are statutory deadlines, and it must surely be the aim of every minister to pursue compliance with the law. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153617	Thank you. What I would like to ask the government here is whether you have any money with you, because it is also about money if it is the case that the processing time has to be reduced. It is, of course, the decisive factor in getting a little done at the time of proceedings in the Compensation Board, that is to say, that some lawyers have been sent there. Now there's just been a Finance Act where I haven't really been able to see the very large funds set aside for this. So the question to the government here is really: will there be some money when it comes to negotiating, so that the processing times can be shorter, so that they will also be shorter at the end of the day with the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153659	We very much hope that we will also be able to discuss this jointly among the parties of the Folketing. If, on the basis of this question debate, the consensus is just as great when we arrive at how to reform the system and, if necessary, how to finance increased funds, then we can go a long way. In other words, some of the things that have unfortunately been stranded at other times have been discussions about whether employers should contribute more and pay a greater proportion of the compensation for occupational injury, etc. And it's still a big thing, what you call a gordian knot to loosen up, but I have a hope that together we can also take the financing discussion when we get that far. However, I believe that, in the first place, it is a question of looking at how, technically speaking, we can, which is complicated, help to shorten the processing times.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153758	Thank you very much to the honourable Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. And we give the rapporteur for the questioners the opportunity to make a final comment. This is formally the second round we are embarking on, and that means that everyone has the right to speak again. At least we usually do it this way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153817	Thank you. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for a constructive debate. Everyone agrees that we have a common task, precisely in terms of improving this system of occupational injury and putting the citizen at the centre. So I'm really glad about that. I look forward to us being summoned to the Minister, and we will be ready for him, both Bent Bøgsted and I. So thank you for the debate and thank you for your support for the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153849	Thank you very much to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. The vote on the proposal for adoption will take place only on Thursday 5 December 2019. We'll be right back. People have the right to sit in their usual seats to the next point, namely point 9.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203153924	There is no minister in this area, and it is Parliament's own responsibility. I will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal to be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The negotiations have been opened, and the first one to speak is Mr Seligman. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party. No, it isn't. We'll take a new Social Democrat, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154023	With this motion for a resolution, we shall be discussing the costs of Members of Parliament, reimbursement, sick leave and maternity leave. I want to make it clear straight away that we in the Social Democratic Party share the view that there is a need to have a look at the rules in relation to the remuneration of members of parliament. So what we in society normally call pay, but that is not what you get as a member of parliament, who gets paid, but also pension and leave rules; that is to say, really get it looked at in the seams. We believe that there is a great need for the regulatory framework, the framework to be made more up-to-date, making it more modern, making it more transparent, so that there can be greater consistency between the conditions and framework for parliamentary politicians and the conditions of the surrounding labour market in general. We are also of the opinion that there are several places where you can rightly argue that the conditions for members of parliament look attractive or look in a way that does not really allow you to get hold of why they are knitted together in this way. This must change, otherwise it will end up with incomprehension, wonder being too great, in relation to the conditions of politicians, and we who are politicians also know that it has very frequently been discussed and discussed, and there is really a wonder and an incomprehension about it, and I think that even as a politician and group chairman of Denmark's largest party we have an obligation to have a look at, so that things become more orderly and there will be greater transparency. What we need to do is to ensure that a better balance is found than there is today a better balance, whereby, on the one hand, conditions do not discourage people from getting involved and trying to run for political office and be elected, but, on the other hand, they are not out of step with what may be a popular and broad view of what is reasonable conditions for politicians. But we do not think that this is the best way to have these matters discussed, decided by a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here in the Assembly. We think that we should ensure that there is a broad discussion of things first, that we have a look at things, and that is one of them. also because we from the Social Democratic side have been instrumental in ensuring that Parliament's administration looks at the update of the many good both figures, but also recommendations made by the Pay Commission back in 2016. There a broad mandate was worked on to look at terms and conditions for politicians. That is why we in the Socialist Group do not support the motion for a resolution as it has been tabled here, but we fully agree that there is a need for a better balance to be struck, and that is why we also hope that it will be possible to work hard on this, so that, in 2020, we can hopefully have a broad view of things and a broad political agreement that will ensure modern, more transparent and more up-to-date conditions for politicians in a form in which they can be regulated on an ongoing basis. Because there is a need for it to be looked at, and there are many reasons, for example: I also said that greater calm must be created in relation to the conditions and framework of politicians. So that is the Socialist position on the motion for a resolution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154423	You're welcome, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154435	Thank you for the contribution of the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen. I think it is a good thing that the Socialists may now seem to have realised that something has to happen. Whatever it is, it's a little uncertain from what Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen said here. But it's a good thing something can happen. I would like to ask Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, if this motion for a resolution does not in fact contain a number of things which could be carried out immediately. For example, this could mean that, as a member of parliament, you are entitled to two years after you are out of the Folketing, even if you are paid from another job. Wasn't that something that we could immediately change without us spending a long time on it? Now there have been parliamentary elections this summer, which means that politicians are in a good way in the work clothes; we do a lot in here. The question is whether it was not a question for a Socialist rapporteur to exercise due diligence, so do some of what we can
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154554	First of all, I would like to make it clear that it is not a question of what appears to be the policy of social democracy. In fact, we have been very clear in saying that this is what we are supposed to be doing here. We have also said from the Social Democrats that exactly the recommendations of the Pay Commission from 2016 are a good starting point for looking at the overall conditions of politicians, and that is what we have wanted. And it is true, as the rapporteur says here, that there are also cost supplements, reimbursements and sick leave. On the other hand, maternity leave is not included, but other matters such as pension conditions are included. We want from the Social Democrats, and that is our ambition, to be ready and in place during 2020 to have the very broad political debate on what we should be doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154651	I should now like to understand what the Socialist rapporteur is saying correctly. We would like to talk about various things and matters that need to be changed, in the light of the discussion that has taken place in the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, but when it comes to maternity leave and the rules that are there, we do not want to touch it. Point 1: Is that correct? And point 2: Is it reasonable that, when you have maternity leave, you should also receive a cost supplement, that is to say a tax-free cost supplement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154725	No, it wasn't understood right. At least I wanted to express something else. I say that the recommendations of the Salaries Commission do not concern maternity, but we actually want the socialist side, as the Danish People's Party also says here, to look at the rules on maternity. We just want a thorough assessment of whether the remuneration commission has got everything in it. That is what we want. And they obviously haven't got everything, because they haven't gotten the rules on maternity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154754	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, and warm welcome to Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203154803	Thank you and also thank the President for saying the full name of my party. It is always pleasing that not all the presidents of the Folketing remember it, so I appreciate it very much. We are dealing with B 10, and if anyone should sit out there and think about whether we have discussed this before, then it is true, because we have it in an earlier collection, and it was B 152, which was also put forward by the Danish People's Party. I would say on behalf of my party that we think it is extremely reasonable and fair to discuss what conditions apply to people who are in politics, and here, after the elections, we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left have also had a discussion of our views so far and are now taking the view that we also had in the past, but that we did not have, but now have, that the remuneration committee did a sensible job, and that we politically owe it to us to see to what extent and how we can translate their recommendations into reality. I have been given a mandate in the Confederal Group of the European United Left to see if this is possible, and some of the things we take into account are also mentioned in the resolution. I have to say that when I read the examples, I fully agree with Mr. Peter Skaarup in that it is very, very difficult to explain and very, very difficult to defend the income rules we have. I have to say that as far as what is concerned is that Member of the Left, who is no longer a member of the Confederal Group of the European United Left, I certainly do not think that that is right, but the MP in question followed the rules that were there, so I do not think that we should shoot at him, but at the rules that apply, and we would like to help to see whether we should not make them more up to date and change them. We would also like to be involved in discussing maternity leave. Well, that's what Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen explained that it was actually not part of the remuneration commission's recommendations. Why wasn't that? Yes, what is stated in the remuneration committee's recommendations on maternity leave is that you want people with children to come to parliament, and that has simply been said, and I am not sure that this is true. We have to have some more lucrative maternity rules in parliament than in the rest of society, because we want people with children to be part of parliament. One might say that when a financial law has just been made, where much is about minimum standards and other things, perhaps it is also very wise that some of those who are affected in everyday life out there in the families of children also have the opportunity to be members of the Folketing and that it is attractive to them. However, we would also like to look at whether we should now take a different view from the remuneration commission, and we would like to take part in this discussion. So we are prepared to put an end to some of these obsolete, old special rules and put it in a different way, but to be perfectly honest, as I have said in other resolutions, I do not think that we should do this in the Parliamentary Chamber element by element, and I am sure that we will have ample opportunity to do that during this parliamentary term and hopefully also during this parliamentary session. So we would like to take part in discussing the content of the resolution together with the recommendations of the Pay Commission, but the proposal, as it stands, will not be voted in favour of by the Confederal Group of the European United Left, although we are in agreement that some of the points that are being pointed out need to be changed because they do not make much sense anymore. Then there is one final argument, and that is that being a member of parliament is not like being an employee. The Constitution sets out a framework for what applies to members of parliament, and then we in the parties can make some rules that there is something that we cannot accept and that we should obtain a medical certificate, but I do not think we should close our eyes to the fact that the constitution imposes some limitations on what we can actually demand. Then we can say that if you do not comply with these rules, you cannot be a member of the political party in question, but the constitution also sets up some restrictions, and I think you should have examined the limitations of the constitution, and I think you will find that some of what is being proposed here is conflicting with the constitution. It can then be said that the basic law should not be that way, but it is, and we are not going to have it changed that way, so I do not think that it can be translated into a purely legal way of converting what the motion for a resolution wants into a political reality. It speaks for us to meet and talk about what we can agree on and what can be done, and then we get done with some of these old rules that apply in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155300	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155302	Well, thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, who like Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen also wants to discuss maternity rules. I really think it is commendable that there is an open path to discussing this, because most people may agree with the Danish People's Party that this cost-benefit analysis, while on maternity leave, is not really connected. I mean, you're not available, so why do you have to cover some costs that you don't have? It seems quite strange. But when Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says that we should not discuss it in here, I would like to ask: why not? In other words, the remuneration and conditions of the members of parliament are extremely controversial and it is very well-founded among Danes, because one can well ask: Why should the members of parliament have significantly better conditions than those we know in the normal labour market? So why not discuss it in here? Why not also discuss it, for example? is on the Danish Parliament's website, what is the relationship of the members of parliament, because one is just open about it and has to be open about it? Why, then, can we not discuss openly what they are like and how to change them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155416	Well, that's what we're gonna do. I hope that there will be agreement on the recommendations of the Pay Commission in some form or other, and that will end up with us discussing it down here and in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. But it is not the case that the Finance Act, which has just landed, is only being discussed in the Parliamentary Chamber; it is in fact also being discussed in the Ministry of Finance. When we sat in government, we did the same, and I think we had some good discussions with Mr. Peter Skaarup's party. Of course, we could have taken all the discussions we had during our reign down in the Parliamentary Chamber, but somewhere I think it might be very sensible for us to discuss things down here but also to do so elsewhere. We in the Left also have a group meeting, and it would of course be exciting to be able to follow, and somewhere in the newspapers we have been able to follow what has happened at our group meetings for much of the last four years, but frankly I think it is good to be able to discuss some things at a closed group meeting and have some debates. And yes, things will have to be negotiated and adopted in the Chamber, and there will be room for that in this matter too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155518	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155520	When I ask, it is not so much because I want to interfere with what the Confederal Group of the European United Left is discussing. After all, we have listed a number of elements in which members of parliament are treated better than the rest of the population. That is actually what I wanted to discuss here today, on the Left, on the Social Democrats, whether other parties will support us in that it is exactly where we should at least change things. And we could do that immediately without discussing pension conditions, pay conditions, etc., which must then also be discussed. Actually, that's what I was a little after about sir. Karsten Lauritzen could say something about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155600	I will have the opportunity to do that now, because you have to save the best for the end. We in my party have the view that we want to get rid of some of the old obsolete rules, but we do not want to reduce the overall conditions for being active in politics, and that is how we want more people to go in and run for office in the Folketing. It's not a regular job, it's not a 37-hour job, it's not an 8-16 job. It is something very special to sit in the Folketing, and when you get a lot of pay, it is also because you actually have a huge responsibility. Therefore, there is a difference between a job, whether it is as director of a company or as a craftsman, and being a member of the parliament. And the responsibility we have must also be reflected in the conditions that apply. The current conditions are obsolete and therefore they need to be changed, but we do not want the overall conditions to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155652	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. On another occasion, I would like to say that there is a slight difference between the name of my full party and the full name of my party. I bet it's good to be in the Left. But welcome to the next rapporteur, sir. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155721	Thank you. I stand here for Jens Rohde, who is unfortunately prevented because of family illness. So I have actually promised to read out Jens Rohde's speech. Jens Rohde says that the Radical Left is in favour of a reform of the conditions of members of parliament. That is why the Radical Left also agreed to implement the remuneration commission's proposal one by one when the Commission's work was set in motion. So did the other parties of the Folketing. Jens Rohde points out that when the proposal was finally on the table, the parties ran away all they could, and the Danish People's Party was the leader dog in that pack. Therefore, there is only one thing to say on this issue: if the parties want to reform and implement views in this context, then there is an opportunity to do so through this Commission. Radical Left does not contribute to populist botanization of the work of the Pay Commission, I shall report from Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155832	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203155844	Thank you. In the SF, we have long been working to change and abolish some of the politicians' lucrative terms of remuneration, leave and pension. We have worked for it in the last parliamentary period without much progress. Then we actually made it a voter, so it was going to fill in the election campaign. We lifted it in the negotiations on the understanding paper. And then we raised it again against the financial law negotiations. And when we think it is important to take this debate and change the conditions, it is because I see that it can contribute to politicians. In SF we believe that it can create a lack of understanding of what is going on inside Christiansborg. Why do they have to sit and have special opportunities for leave? Why should they have particularly good post-marketing conditions? Why do they have to have civil servants' pensions on speed, as I have called them? That's why we've been preoccupied with changing it. The motion for a resolution before us contains points which the SF can support. We believe that it should be done to ensure that you can have two years' follow-up, as the remuneration commission said. We think it is good to look at the rules for sick leave. We believe that the cost supplement should be removed because it is hopelessly obsolete that a cost supplement should be received to cover postage and everything else that many parties already cover or that we do not have the cost of. So that's where we stand. Then we've got a really good offer in SF. Indeed, we have been offered an offer to enter into real negotiations to change this. I was actually out earlier this autumn saying that we were going to table these motions for resolutions, not even together. We would take them individually to discuss the unfairness of each condition, because we think they are unfair. We did this a little out of control because we didn't think it was moving in here. But in the last few months, there's actually been a move. I actually find that the parties across the Folketing recognise that there is a need to change the lucrative conditions that exist and that the recommendations made by the remuneration commission should be based on. There's actually been some people working through these terms. I think that is interesting, because when there are real negotiations, when there has been the hurry that has been waiting for it, there is a possibility that it will actually come true. That is why we do not support the proposal that is before us. If the reality negotiations end up running into the sand, then it is clear that we will return. We could easily have chosen a model in which we said that we would not discuss at all what the remuneration commission has come up with in relation to wage increases. And then we could just have gone determined to have only abolished lucrative conditions. Then everyone in here knows that it would never have happened. Then it would end with us never making a deal. Therefore, the SF has openly said that if that is what it takes, then that is the way we are going. And there is also reason to believe that it is not politicians themselves who should define what we should earn in remuneration and what our pensions should look like, but that we should listen to some experts. So I am actually quite optimistic today, because I see that now we are moving and that there is actually a desire to change the conditions. We will not put that at risk by making the easy choice, namely to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. We're gonna have some negotiations. We want these terms changed. And if it goes into the sand, we must return to this Chamber and have another debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160235	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160243	Well, I agree that the conditions that Members of Parliament have can be difficult to explain. However, I also agree with the starting point of the Michael Christiansen Commission that there is nothing wrong with the overall wage pressure exerted by the Folketing, but that it is more the distribution between remuneration and various other arrangements. The reason I am taking the floor is that Mr. Jacob Mark is also doing something about saying that these are particularly lucrative conditions. I mean, every industry has different conditions. In the public sector, for example, there is a lack of information. Paid lunch. Is it lucrative because you don't have it in private? No, that is something that has been negotiated in an agreement negotiation. There is also full pay during maternity leave in the public sector. There aren't many private jobs. Is that lucrative? Is it unreasonable because private people don't? No, that is something that has been negotiated. It is to make it clear that just because people's wages differ from each other and are distributed in other ways does not necessarily mean that there is something wrong with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160350	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160352	But what is the crucial difference is that we ourselves negotiate on it. Then it has to be with each other that we negotiate. We decide for ourselves what our pension terms, our terms of pay, our terms of leave look like. And I cannot understand how the politicians who negotiated it at the time could come up with the idea of earning compensation while on voluntary leave. I can't understand why you need a cost supplement while you're on maternity leave. I mean, there are some obvious crazies in the way the system has been set up. We must put an end to this and change it. I am not going to be in such a hetz where you just say that it has to be worse and worse for politicians. I will not contribute to that. But in return, I would like to contribute to the conclusion of an agreement where we will have all the crazy things abolished and find a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160444	I fully agree with that and I would like to work for it. I am also pleased that there are real negotiations on this. You can end up with a different distribution of remuneration plus the schemes that are next but cost the same to taxpayers. Yeah, let's do it, but it's not like we're getting less out of it. It's not that taxpayers don't have to pay anything for our salary. In other words, it has suffered from populism if you are at the level where you want to pay out the same money, but that they just have to be paid out in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160522	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160524	But there is now a crucial difference. In other words, even if you end up with the overall economic framework being the same, but if you get rid of all the crazy, opaque conditions, namely the abolition of pensions which make no sense and where you earn a great deal of money very quickly, then I believe that we have at least succeeded in creating some conditions of remuneration and pensions which are transparent and which I think people can understand and respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160552	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160557	I agree with Mr. Jacob Mark in that it's good that some have moved. But you can get such a sense of déjà vu, and I would like to ask Mr. Jacob Mark, if you couldn't imagine. In the past, the remuneration commission was asked to come up with a proposal which would then have to be bought as it was. In particular, the Social Democrats and the Left did not. They dropped it in a late night hour and said it wasn't supposed to be like that. That could be the risk again, because I haven't heard of any openings. I haven't attended any meetings with anyone about this yet. So we have to see how it develops. But at least I see a risk that developments may be the same. Then I would like to ask Mr. Jacob Mark, isn't it really some relatively lucrative salaries that pay, if you would call it the members of parliament already have? Why should you introduce more salaries for the members of parliament somewhere else, because you only have employee-like conditions in connection with resignation from the Folketing, i.e. some months' resignation, you can say, and thus pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160710	First of all, I want to say whether I think we can succeed with it this time and what is different. I just believe that the people and the group chairmen who are in the parties right now will actually make changes. I have great confidence in that, and I think that is the simple answer. In fact, I believe we can achieve that. In relation to what SF is fighting for, I would say that it is not necessary for SF that it should go to zero. We could accept a package where we lose a little. We have also played a bit with the idea that you can lose a little, but that you improve in-service training opportunities for members of parliament while they are in here. So we're kind of open to looking at different models, but even if you go to zero, I think it would be an improvement if you made it transparent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160754	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160756	I think that is also the sensible view. It seems a little strange that an equation has been drawn up from the point of view of some parties, which must end in zero. If it is unreasonable, and if it is unreasonable, that the members of parliament are significantly better off in some areas than the rest of the community... and we are some who think that it is one of the problems in terms of creating more confidence in the politicians. Does it give more confidence to abolish such schemes, but does it increase wages? I'm not even convinced it does. I'm just gonna ask sir. Jacob Mark, about sir. Jacob Mark doesn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160834	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160837	I think that it is easy to abolish these schemes, but I think that it is realistic to have one single package made, where we are changing all these crazy conditions that politicians in the past have created for themselves, and that you are also looking at pensions. They are not here in the motion for a resolution, so that you make a single package that makes it more transparent and wise, but without removing the balance where you have proper relationships as a member of parliament. I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160909	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the SF rapporteur and welcome Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203160919	Thank you. I regret that I was late; it went just a little faster down here than I expected. I can start by saying that we in the Enhedslist fully agree with the proposers that the terms of the Members of Parliament are far too far from those of ordinary Danes, and we, like the proposers, believe that this should be changed. This is something we have been working for in Enhedslisten for a very, very many years, so that some of these schemes that we have in here, which are special and very different from those that are outside Christiansborg, are being changed. First of all, I would like to say something about the part of the proposal which deals with post-rejection. I think it is completely out of the question that the post-regulation rules, as they are today, mean that you can earn compensation while contesting another job on your leave. It makes no sense to me, and I think that we can change those rules immediately without waiting for all kinds of negotiations and without waiting for all kinds of possible Commission cuts. It makes no sense to me, just as it doesn't make any sense to me either, that when you are on probation as a member of parliament, i.e. if you have not been re-elected, there is no requirement for training or activation. In fact, there is no requirement for any of the demands that we make on ordinary employees who are without a job. I think there is a huge imbalance in that, and that is why I very much agree with the proposal that the post-regulation should be reduced from two years. I am not arguing that we should introduce into our system the same whip that exists in the employment system, rather the opposite. Let us give ourselves a shorter follow-up system and then remove some of the rules in the benefit system that force unemployed workers into all sorts of strange activation. In relation to the part dealing with maternity, we in the Enhedslist believe that normalisation of maternity conditions would make sense. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen also mentioned that there is a slight difference between what kind of conditions you have, depending on where you are employed, and there is just the fact that the conditions we have in here are not really found anywhere else. That is why we believe in the Enhedslisten that normalisation should be achieved. We do not entirely agree with what the proposers are proposing. We believe that what we should do is look at the public contracts and then make the same maternity rules as there are, but I hope that we in the Enhedslist can discuss this with both the proposers and the rest of you in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We support it immediately, I can say that you do not get the cost supplement while you are on maternity leave, because it makes no sense that you get an allowance for going to work when you go home with your little baby. So let's just change it right away. In relation to sick leave, I think that this is a rather interesting proposal. There we also have to look at the rules. But where it is a little different from the labour market that exists outside Christiansborg is, among other things, know that we don't really have any boss in here, so who would you hand in this medical certificate to; who would administer it? There are some answers to that, but I think that is quite obvious. In any case, something needs to be done about these sick leave rules in here, and we would very much like to help look at how we can get a system of medical certificates properly up and running. There is just something about who should administer it: Should you have a conversation with the Speaker of the Danish Parliament, or is it with the Director of the Danish Parliament, or is it with your group chairman? Well, it's kind of a question of who's really your boss, when you're sitting in here, it's really the voters. Having said that, we can support the motion for a resolution immediately, but as you can hear, there are also some things that we would like to discuss in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure exactly what exactly to look like, but at least thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161340	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161347	Yes, this is a little special, because I agree with everything that is being said, but I cannot ignore it when the things that are being said are factually wrong; but I agree with the attitude. Mrs Rosa Lund said that the fact that we have two years of post-employment without going into activation or being available to the labour market is something that no one else has. Can Mrs Lund confirm that if you are a civil servant and are dismissed without the possibility of obtaining a similar post, you have three years' salary?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161422	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161424	Yes, I can confirm that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There's a point. So there are some places, I admit, outside Christiansborg, where these rules exist. It just doesn't change the fact that we in the Enhedslist think that these post-regulation rules we have today I know, sir. Ole Birk Olesen does not like the word lucrative in fact is too good. We believe that it should be six months, and we also believe that there should be a set-off from the first crown earned. There isn't today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161455	Thank you for that, and we shall now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161501	Thank you and also thank Mrs Rosa Lund for the reflection on this medical statement, because there are some challenges. Sitting in the Folketing is not the same as any other job at a workplace, and one must respect that, but it may well be that one can find a solution to what is practical and makes sense. What I would like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is about the leave arrangements that exist today, where you are paid while on leave from municipal councils and other things. It has been in the daily press, and I just want to find out if it is true what the newspapers say, which is not always true. Here Enhedslisten has some rules that you have to pay something to the party as I understand it. I just need to understand whether it is not with the rules that apply today, in other words, an advantage for the Enhedslisten, because both the Member who is inside and the Member who is on leave pay to the Enhedslisten Party Box. Can Mrs. Rosa Lund confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161557	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161559	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen is absolutely right that we in the Enhedslisten have what is called party tax, and there is the difference between Mr. Karsten Lauritzen's party, the Left, and us, that in his party it is the case that the money goes straight into the pocket of the individual, while in the Enhedslisten we have decided that when these schemes are as they are, we would like to share the money and spend it on the party instead of going into the pocket of the individual. I have noticed that it is something that you think is really fun to tease Enhedslisten about, but I actually think that the situation is a little the opposite, because in all other parties it just goes to the individual. But it is absolutely correct that we in the Enhedslisten pay party taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161636	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161639	We also have a group quota in the Left, but it is somewhat smaller than in the Enhedslisten, and that is the way things are arranged differently. What I really want to see is that when Enhedslisten's position on this issue and the general conditions that apply to politicians is so principled, why is it that Enhedslisten chooses to foam the cream in the situation that arises when a member is both on leave but also inside the Folketing or in a municipal council? Well, then it's good for the party box. Why don't Enhedslisten say you don't want that money, or why don't you give it to charity?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161711	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161713	Unfortunately, this motion for a resolution does not include members of the municipal council, but I am pleased to hear that. Karsten Lauritzen, with whom I and my colleagues in the Enhedslist have tabled a motion for a resolution which we will be discussing down here about a month's time, which is that it should be possible for the members of the municipal council to renounce the money they receive when they are on leave, because that is not possible today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161736	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur, Mai Mercado, of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203161747	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. It is a fine debate to take where you can express your party's views. I think that is certainly justified in the Assembly. When it comes to what arrangements should be made and what changes, if any, may be made, I share the views of a number of the other rapporteurs that it is not certain that it is necessarily in the Chamber that it is wise to have such a debate. This is primarily because there may well be a number of additional questions that relate to the individual elements. When we talk about the situation of members of parliament, there is already a very good and solid work done by the remuneration commission, which can also be read with benefit. It is, of course, a work that we in the Conservative People's Party are leaning on. I should just like to say openly that we are, of course, prepared to decide on a number of amendments, and very much so with the recommendations of the Pay Commission in mind. After all, the remuneration commission said that the cost premium had to be completely abolished because it was not modern. We should have more transparency, and that should be more transparent. Therefore, you should not have a cost supplement, but really just ensure that you had a remuneration. The remuneration commission also said that the pension should be normalized, at least the rate at which pensions are earned, and that the system which exists there today is too lucrative. We agree with both of these. In addition, we would actually like to look at the rules on maternity leave, because we can see that there is something there too. I just want to sign off on the fact that the Danish People's Party actually has it in its motion for a resolution. That is why we declare ourselves quite ready to actually take those discussions. I'm just gonna go along with it, sir. Jacob Mark said about reality negotiations, on behalf of the Conservatives, announce me ready. If future real negotiations had to end without reality and thus run into the sand, then we are prepared to discuss the situation of the Members of Parliament again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203162015	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome Mr. Alternate. Sikandar Siddique. I just need to learn how to put it right. Welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203162030	Thank you for the floor. Our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Uffe Elbæk, unfortunately, could not be here, but I have to say that it is important for the alternative that there should be transparency and openness about our pay and pay relations. We are pleased that the Socialists and the Left have now given these very clear signals that we will look at the work and conclusions of the Pay Commission. That is why we believe that once and for all we must talk about our pay relationship, and we must do so together. Now we are waiting for the Socialists to come up with a proposal and then we are ready to debate and possibly make our relationship less, what can be said, crazy, as the SF's rapporteur said. In the first place, therefore, we will not support this proposal, because we believe that we should now take it as a whole when the Socialists come up with a proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203162201	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the representative of the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203162210	I always get a little worried when the alternative says they're gonna help make something less crazy. Then I'm thinking this could go the wrong way. But now we'll see. I can say to the rapporteur of the Left that, in relation to the fact that there are more people in the Folketing who have children and young children, I simply live up to the criteria. I have two daughters, one of 3 and one of 5 years old, and we make it work anyway • even though we live in Aarhus. But now for DF's motion for a resolution, which we welcome in New Citizens. We ourselves have raised questions about group support in the past, and we would also like to see us look at these areas. I made such an inventory when I was going down here, about how many hours I have actually spent on my parliamentary work in here, and I land such a place between 75 and 80 hours a week. And then for fun, when you talk about the amount of remuneration, I went in and looked at what the average salary in Denmark is, and it is 327,992 DKK. in 2018 figures, i.e. approx. 330,000 kroner. What I am working is really equivalent to two full-time jobs plus two overtime hours each week, and if you add it together, you will be up to about DKK 700,000 if someone who had an average salary would work the same number of hours as I work. A salary for a member of parliament is DKK 750,000, so there you will be better paid with these approx. 50,000 kroner. more a year in relation to an average salary gross, we should remember to say here. Now before I joined the Folketing, I worked as a primary school teacher. We just got a little over $400,000. a year, and if I do the same calculation that I worked as many hours as a primary school teacher as I now work as a parliamentarian, then that would actually mean that as a teacher I would have a gross profit of DKK 90,000. a year, that is, if I had to work the same number of hours as I do now. Then we can have a long debate on whether we MEPs should work less. I have such a personal hope that once we could just be part-time politicians and then we could have a job next door. I know that it is probably a little out of the way in the future. There are some elements about the concrete, which I hope the rapporteur for the DF will also be able to go into a little more detail. Because when we talk about repercussions, we kind of agree that a two-year period can definitely be too long. But we should also bear in mind that as a member of parliament you cannot earn an allowance, so I was in a situation where I had to resign from my fund, which I was part of as a teacher. This means that if there were choices, and there could be quick • I don't think so now, but it can come pretty quickly • then I could lose my job, my job in here, but I would stand without any financial cover at all. And if you want family fathers like me to enter a job here, maybe there's a problem I have a house, and I have financial obligations, including about my children, to whom I have to live up to, payment for their day care facilities, etc. So if I am not financially secure in any way whatsoever, at least in some kind of period afterwards, because I cannot get a daily allowance, then there is a problem where there might well be some who could consider: Whoa, is it right for me to step into? Then it is clear that if you have been inside for a longer period and have been here for perhaps 4 or 8 years, you have earned perhaps 2 years. But if there is a choice quite quickly, I may only have six months, and then I am completely without financial basis. For some, it might well be possible for them to be a little dismissive. These are the things I hope we can discuss. However, we are generally in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203162609	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We welcome the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203162618	Thank you for that and also thank the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution, which I think raises an important debate. We in the Liberal Alliance fully agree that we should have a more streamlined remuneration than we do today. In short, our monthly payment, our remuneration, is slightly below what people in possibly comparable positions have. On the other hand, we have a very lucrative pension scheme and some other schemes, which are also more lucrative than those others have. It is like part of our pay package; we get less pay every month, but we get a better pension when we eventually round the retirement age. We are not going to vote in favour of this resolution because we believe that such a reform here should address both. We are in favour of the proposal that came from Michael Christiansen and the Pay Commission, which looked at what the position and duties of a member of parliament would correspond to if you were employed in the state. And that commission said it's probably about like being head of department in the state, so I don't suppose the salaries of the members of parliament should look like what a head of department gets. And I think that's a good starting point for a future reform of our remuneration in here. The best thing would actually be if our remuneration and pensions, etc. just automatically followed the updates that happen by e.g. salaries of department heads. This, however, raises the problem that at any time the Minister for Finance sitting will suddenly have an interest in increasing the salaries of the heads of department, because the members of parliament will then also receive more pay. And it is not so fortunate that in this way incentives are given to pay the state's bosses with higher salaries than you can get away with. However, the principle that our salary should be similar to that of employees in the state at about the same level is supported by us in the Liberal Alliance. Then I would also like to say another thing. The salaries of members of parliament suffer from the same hardship as the salaries of many other groups of public servants, namely that we receive the same salary, no matter how skillful and industrious we are. And I think it is quite reasonable that Enhedslisten says that their efforts here in the Folketing are worth something less than what others get and that they therefore have to pay it more in tax. I fully agree with the Enhedslisten's efforts here in the Danish Parliament are not worth as much as for example. The efforts of the Social Democracy or the Left or the Liberal Alliance for that matter. So I understand that they have regulated themselves in this way. A lot would be destroyed in this community if Enhedslisten could decide more. So I agree. The best thing would actually be if you could pay Members of Parliament differently, depending on how much they did, but that may not be possible. I find it difficult to see how to put it, although one could say that if growth in society were very high below a certain majority, then that majority would also have earned a higher salary than the others who drive growth downwards. That would be one way to do it, but it can't. I'm fabulous up here. Basically, I would just like to say that I support the concrete content of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, but I want it to be linked to a major general wage reform and remuneration reform in here, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance will have to vote against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203163013	Thank you to the rapporteur. There was a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203163020	I do not even think Mrs Rosa Lund heard the rapporteur's provocations. No, she didn't. But back to the point. Thank you for a relatively frank talk from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, where some things were said about where the Liberal Alliance stands. I think it is good that we can have the debate here in Parliament and not put it in another forum where no one can really hear and see what is going on. What I'd like to hear, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen says whether the Liberal Alliance agrees or disagrees with the view of the Social Democrats and the Left in particular, namely that conditions must not deteriorate. I am asking because some of the things we are listing here could easily be changed now and here, even if it would require a majority in favour of it, that is clear. And some of the things seem so completely good night, I think, for ordinary people who follow this, that you could easily change it now and here without having to raise the salary for the members of parliament. I would like to hear the Liberal Alliance's view on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203163130	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203163133	I don't think we should be striving for millimeter justice. I think we should find out which pay group in the state our work can best be compared to. Whether it causes a deterioration or an increase or about the same thing, we should not be concerned about it. We should be concerned about whether we think that our work is comparable to, for example, our work. a head of department or whether it should be compared instead with that of a head of department or whatever. And then we must take the deterioration in our overall relationship, remain where we are, in relation to our overall relationship, or get the increase compared to our overall relationship, which it must give. I'm not sure if department heads make more money together than we members of parliament serve. But let's just figure out which group we think we can be compared to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203163219	There were no further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we shall hear the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203163234	Thank you, and thank you for one, I think it is not because I am surprised because, of course, proposals in this Chamber are being dealt with in a factual way by the Members of Parliament in such a general way, and that has been received and thanked to the rapporteurs for the comments that have fallen. There have been some rapporteurs who have dealt with it very methodically, while others have said that they do not take a position on the individual elements, but that they wait until you sit and negotiate in a circle. I do not quite know who will negotiate it and what circle it is, but we must see and find out. I understand that the group that was going to discuss this was the group chairmen of the parties, but I understand that there are two groups of group chairmen where some think they should talk about it, and then there are some who are left out a little. We shall see if it is still so, but if it is still so, there is the risk that it will be, just as it was the last time, when these conditions were discussed, when it was also said that there are a number of things that need to be changed, that there is a need for some to look at it, and then you completely buy the proposal that comes from those who are looking at it, that is to say the remuneration commission, and where it ended up being nothing, because the majority did not buy what the remuneration commission brought in anyway. So there is a risk, and that is what I think we would like to draw attention to from the Danish People's Party. Perhaps the risk is not so much for the parties involved in it, the risk is first and foremost, and that is what is at stake, in terms of confidence in politicians, the confidence that one can agree that some schemes that immediately seem foolish, pissed off or changed. That is what is at stake here, that is to say, confidence in the politicians. Then I would say that the resolution we are debating today from the Danish People's Party was, of course, a re-submission of our motion for a resolution on the same subject that lapsed when the parliamentary elections were held here six months ago. It is precisely the case that the Danish People's Party has consistently argued over the years that the salaries and pension conditions of the members of parliament and other conditions were changed, so that they correspond more closely to what is known from the normal labour market, that is, the conditions that ordinary Danes experience when they are sent to work in the public sector or in the private sector, and what we then address is, as several people have mentioned, some imbalances, some very obvious imbalances, in the current system of the members of parliament. Then one can of course discuss back and forth whether to make one change or another, but the bottom line, the interest on the part of the Danish People's Party, is that we get as far as we possibly can, in terms of creating conditions that are more transparent and more understandable to ordinary Danes. Then we think it is a good thing that we have also heard from today's platform that both the Socialists and the Liberals have recently changed their attitude, changed their signals, and now we want to discuss the salaries and working conditions of politicians, pensions. It is in itself very good for democracy that we can have an open discussion on these things, and we look forward to that discussion in one way or another being conducted here in the Folketing from now on. It is generally difficult for the Danes to understand why members of parliament must have completely lucrative conditions and some better conditions when it comes to such basic things as illness at a workplace, maternity at a workplace, covering costs at a workplace, and also the aftermath is, of course, a subject of great debate. Because the fact that there are significantly better conditions than are known from the normal labour market, perhaps apart from some individual top managers we hear about in the media, is difficult to understand. So the Danish People's Party's call to the Danish Parliament and to ourselves in here we have no minister, so no one is sitting down here that we have to discuss and fight with, and where we are going in a ministry and try to get it tangled in place, no, no, we can figure it out ourselves is that we really don't have to wait for one or the other discussion about different matters when it comes to, for example. remuneration. We can reasonably say now and here that we are abolishing this absurdity, for example. the fact that we in the Folketing, against all currents, have this cost supplement, i.e. a tax-free cost supplement, as was known on the labour market many, many years ago, and where it is virtually only the Folketing that has one left. We could do away with that, so that we could say to the Danes at least now and here: OK, we have done something about a thing that has been quite good night and incomprehensible to most people. Because it is also wrong with some of the other schemes when we look at what has been caused by the cost supplement, because after all, you get cost supplements today when you are on maternity leave. Well, it seems like a good night. If you are on maternity leave, because we have made some good rules in Denmark that we have a relatively long maternity leave, and the point of the long maternity leave is to take care of the child you have been given. After all, it is not going to meetings or events or anything else that has to do with politics, because you are on leave and you have sent a replacement into the Danish Parliament to carry out the tasks that lie there, and then you should not have cost supplements. It seems perfectly logical, but unfortunately it is just the case today that this strange arrangement has been preserved. In the same way, what we have also discussed here today is that we can have it for as long as two years when we leave the Folketing instead of for a few months, as is normally the case in the labour market, for example. Civil Service Act. It is strange, then, that, unlike all other citizens, you as a member of parliament have such an arrangement. It is also strange that you do not need to produce a medical certificate for long periods of illness. That's weird. It is not something you know from the normal labour market that you can just say that now you are ill, and then you stay away without giving a proof or at least what looks like a proof that you are ill. It is also a problem in the municipal world in town councils and regional councils, and that is why the Danish People's Party wants what I want, for example. Enhedslisten also hears saying that at this point we are being told to municipalities and regions: see to it that it is changed. After all, it also helps to lower confidence in the members of the council, the members of the regional council, that such strange arrangements are being made. After all, the press has focused on some of these examples and also other examples of the unfairness of the schemes, and we are all familiar with the headlines. I've just brought a few of them here: milking the Treasury with leave fin, Barselsbonus at the Castle, and you're being hunted, but no demands for sick-listed politicians. These are the headlines that help make it somewhat more difficult for members of parliament to work, because there will be some who question and justify the fact that these schemes are simply too lucrative. That is the kind of thing that helps to spread a politician in the population, and that is not what we need. At a time when all sorts of other things are going on in society that may not be so trusted, there is a need for support, confidence in politicians. We simply need politicians who act credible and who set a good example, among other things. by showing a good degree of moderation and, in a similar way, following the same rules as apply to the rest of the population. In fact, that is basically what is good governance, and in some way we are a little leaders and should be leaders of the people, and that is what creates respect for good governance, and in this case it is the country's top that makes legislation at the same time. So let us start by once and for all normalising the situation by abolishing these inexplicable unfair lucrative special arrangements for members of parliament, and let us finally also discuss and debate the level of salaries and pensions of the members of parliament so that they too can correspond to the general development of the labour market. Once we have done so, I think we really have an opportunity to move forward in building confidence in the politicians at Christiansborg. Before we have done so, I think it is difficult, and therefore it is clear that if the Danish People's Party had been right as we have been watching, we would have hoped that there would have been a majority in the Danish Parliament here today who had said: Yes, we are now implementing this resolution. Because, as many have actually said, common sense is common sense all the way through, and it could easily be done without at the same time raising the salaries of Members of Parliament further. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164313	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech by the proposers. There are a few brief comments, so I would just like to ask you to stay on the platform for a moment. The first brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164323	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. I have one question for Mr. Peter Skaarup, who himself mentioned this, that there are many inexplicable and unreasonable rules on post-rejection. And one of the things that I think is a little inexplicable and perhaps a little strange use of money is that the President of the Danish Parliament gets a copy when he stops as President, even if he should be elected to the Folketing once again. The same is true of ministers, who also receive a ministerial decree, even if they were to come to parliament. So I really just want to hear what the Danish People's Party's position is on this and whether one agrees with Enhedslisten that it should change.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164410	Yeah, we're 100%. In other words, when we are advocating a change in this post-regulation system, which is probably only known to top managers in the business world, who can negotiate a system of one or two years' pay when they say good-bye, we are arguing that it is also for ministers and the Speaker of Parliament and everyone else who has to be the same rules for everyone. That is what the Danish People's Party wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164437	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164442	Unfortunately, I can say that this does not just happen in the private sector. This is also happening in many areas of the public sector. Now I come from the municipality of Aarhus, where people have been hired for years and where they have been given 11⁄2-2 years' detention just because they have changed office buildings. So there are also common examples in the public sector. But I would like to ask the rapporteur a question, because it says that we should be treated in the same way as people, for example. is employed in the public sector and, as I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, that is not quite what we are doing here. Because we do not have the opportunity to be a member of an unemployment fund in here, and if we are only to be able to obtain a six-month reimbursement, and it may be reasonable to say that this is the period set for the post-recruitment fund, does the Danish People's Party feel that there should be an opportunity for us as MPs to be a member of an unemployment fund? Could that be a way to change this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164533	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164535	I would say that it is entirely up to the individual to insure himself against unemployment. I hope that when you're done sitting in Parliament, you can get yourself a job. It gives you a very good ballast to be able to get a job afterwards. However, if you need to insure yourself in one way or another against unemployment, I believe that the remuneration given to members of parliament, the remuneration given to members of parliament, provides an opportunity for you to make sure, on your own initiative, that you do not get into a situation where you cannot manage financially. There are different arrangements for members of parliament, which, overall, means that members of parliament are significantly better than normal employees of a public or private company, because the total wage package is very, very lucrative, as I have mentioned in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164628	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164630	Yes, and it's very well if you've been sitting in here for many years and had the opportunity to have a high salary for many years. But now I've been sitting in here for five months, and I can go out in a month. And I haven't been on a high salary, but I can soon stand without having any financial basis at all, because it's not possible for me today to take out a private pension insurance fund. I can't do that as a member of the parliament. I can't be a member of an unemployment fund either. So I have no other option but to get a copycat. I fully agree that we should look at whether that is true, for example. We must be two years old, but at the same time we must also look at the fact that there are reasonable conditions, so that if you come in here and only sit for a short time, you actually have the opportunity to have an economic basis, so that you do not have to leave house and home because you choose to run for the people's service.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164713	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164715	I mean, I have the basic idea that Members of Parliament should not, under any circumstances, complain. If there are some members of parliament complaining about the pay or the conditions being offered to members of parliament with all the opportunities associated with it today, I would say that one should not be in the situation of complaining about something, because one is really incredibly privileged. And when there is talk of the average wage in the labour market today, which is perhaps just over DKK 300,000, then there are a lot of Danes who do not approach the amount of money that many are actually significantly lower. That is why I think it is wrong for us to improve the conditions of Members of Parliament in any way. On the contrary, I think we should cut away the things that are too lucrative today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164806	Thank you. One brief comment has been made, and it is from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164810	I think, for the sake of clarity, that we could ask for an answer to what the Danish People's Party really means when the Danish People's Party says that we should not have better conditions in here than we have in the labour market. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party believes that we as MPs should be paid in the same way as a shop assistant or a school teacher or a director? Which group of employees outside these walls does Dansk Folkeparti really think we should have the same conditions as?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164845	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164847	I think that the salary that Members of Parliament are receiving today is very, very good, and then we have a number of schemes which are added: we have a cost-free surcharge. We have very favourable pension conditions. We have very favourable terms of resignation, i.e. the two years we have talked about in the past, and a number of aids of different kinds. We can transport ourselves free of charge. This means, in all possible ways, that the members of parliament are very privileged. So I would not say that we should compare ourselves with another group. I would say that if you cut the lucrative arrangements away, the Members of Parliament are still standing away really, really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164928	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164930	It's just too much to get on the table in concrete terms. Peter Skaarup, that members of parliament should serve more than schoolteachers?
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164940	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203164943	No, actually, I don't think so. There are school teachers who have a very good salary because of different allowances. So where Members of Parliament are just going to be in relation to different groups within the school system, yes, I cannot answer that very precisely, but I can just say that Members of Parliament should not complain, and I think it is a little in Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's question here is that members of parliament should receive a higher salary, a significantly higher salary, than school teachers, police officers, nurses. I do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203165017	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Skaarup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191203165036	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 4 December 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
