ParlaMint-DK_20190115130044	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 140 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners, the law on integration, the law on repatriation and various other laws. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution adding the words gender, gender identity and gender expressions to the criminal code in connection with hate crimes). Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a Danish education programme to support the democratic and human rights struggle of foreign student activists). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130133	Today we are embarking on the trial system of party leader debates in the Chamber, as decided by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in November. I have to say that this may not be necessary but I would nevertheless say that it was a unanimous committee, and that is always good. As I said, this is the first time we have held this kind of debate, which differs in many ways from the debates we normally have on matters in this Chamber. I would therefore like to start by saying a few words about how this is going to happen. The aim of the experimental scheme is to allow party leaders to debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly a few times a year without a specific subject being set in advance and without government participation in its capacity as government. The party circle is party leaders, as we understand in the same way as when we have a question time with the Prime Minister, but including the party leaders of the government parties. Even though they are ministers, they are now taking part as party leaders. Each party leader has three minutes' speaking time for a speech from the platform. The speeches are held in the general order of parties, and all party leaders sit in the first row of the Chamber according to party size. For each speech, the other party leaders have access to 2 short comments of 1⁄2 minutes, each time with the same time to reply. Since the debate is for the party leaders, we are not going to use the usual forms of indictment, minister or rapporteur, but either Mr/fr. and name or party leader. First, it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130312	Thank you. I can already be pleased that we have laughed more together and smiled more at each other than we have done for a few years, so even now on the first day of school that is almost how it feels for us party leaders. I can thank you for a new form of debate, which I think we will all try to help raise the current debate here in Parliament. You can see that we are beginning to approach a parliamentary election. I also think you can start to hear it in the dialects. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has never been as much jyde as now, and I think I can hear from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that it is in Copenhagen that you have to make choices, and I wonder if the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate will soon get to grips with what a real Funen Brunsviger is; I think so. Speaking of the part of the country which, of course, fills here in the Assembly Hall when we approach a choice, I was some time ago visiting Thisted Gymnasium. It was a really nice debate with a lot of young people, and at one point he asks who is leading the debate: How many of you young people in this Chamber are planning to leave Thisted, Thy and Mors? A lot of hands went up. Then he asks the youths: How many of you expect to come back? Hardly anyone raised their hand. But then the third question comes to young people: If there is a good job to get back to, how many of you could imagine returning to Thisted? In fact, a lot of the young people raised their hands. I find this thought-provoking, because I think that what we need most to discuss with each other here in Parliament is the increasing centralisation of our country. Many educational institutions are closed, and there are many hospitals and hospitals, for example. Kalundborg, Nakskov, Haderslev, Fredericia and Grenaa, and many police stations are gone. I think that we are faced with a crucial choice this year, namely whether that development should just be allowed to continue or whether we want to go the other way. I said earlier that the Prime Minister's municipal reform was the greatest centralisation of Denmark ever. Sir. Kaare Dybvad has corrected me and pointed out to me that this is the greatest centralisation since absolute monarchy, but it still says something. That is why our position on the forthcoming negotiations on health policy is also quite clear: we will not be involved in further centralisation of Denmark, which the government is proposing. We need time and closeness and not the opposite. Let this be the start of a good debate with colleagues, I hope, now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130618	Thank you. If speaking time is respected, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen did here, everything will be fine. It was exactly on the minute. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130628	Thank you. In the finance agreement that the Danish People's Party made with the government, we also made an agreement that the island of Lindholm should in future house criminal foreigners whom we cannot have sent home. The Social Democratic Party voted yellow, in other words abstained from voting on it when we were going to vote on it in the Parliamentary Chamber back in December. Has the Social Democratic Party come closer to clarifying whether we support our idea here or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130659	We support the idea of 'complete' and the yellow position has nothing to do with the basic good idea of bringing together those who have committed crime in Denmark, serious crime and who are sentenced to expulsion. They must leave Denmark, and many of them should have left Denmark already now. So that thought is completely firm. So we also have a consideration to take into account in a community. I know the area down there very well and can understand a huge local concern about what it will mean for a community, and that so many men without any perspective and with such serious crime behind them can come to destroy a community. And that is the balance we want to be sure of being fully satisfied with the Lindholm proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130741	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130743	It's a concern I can easily understand. Today they are somewhere else, and there it is also causing great concern to these people. They should not be in Denmark at all, and if they were in Denmark, perhaps they should be in a prison instead of being able to wander freely. But it is better to have them on an island than to have them wandering freely around an area where they can just go in and out all the time. After all, there must be some ferry departures and so on, so that they can get back and forth. That is why we think it is the best solution in the situation. The Social Democratic Party has not bought in on that, as I think it is called in the present Danish language, but what then? In other words, a little time has passed from December to today's debate, so the Social Democrats have come closer to clarifying what they want, if what we have come up with is not good?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130824	Well, I think the best solution to this situation is to stop the spontaneous asylum application in Denmark. And I actually believe that the whole problem of Lindholm reveals an asylum system that does not actually work, because many of these men should not have been here at all. If we could deal with asylum in the neighbourhood, we would be able to deal with it there as regards those who have a need for protection; some of them do not. We should not have this type of citizen in our country who is committing serious crime. So I would very much like to discuss further whether Lindholm is the right solution, but I would also like to make a call for a future government to put a lot more fuel into sending these home. Because our problem is that they shouldn't be here at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130908	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130911	Thank you. I read that the Ombudsman has spoken about the children at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark, and he says that the conditions for children at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark are suitable for significantly hampering children's upbringing and limiting their possibilities for natural development and manifestation of life. He says that unrest, loneliness and incalculability seem to characterise the everyday life of children to a considerable extent. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen says she wants to be Prime Minister of the children. Aren't those kids going out of Soul Field?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115130947-2	No, they don't. Because we need to have an exit centre where rejected asylum seekers are until the time when we can ensure that they return to the country from which they come. But I have read the Ombudsman's report with a great deal of interest and followed all the depictions I have ever been able to get to, and they make as much impression on me as they do on Mrs Pernille Skip. And we have a special responsibility when it comes to children. We have to stick to the fact that rejected asylum seekers have to leave Denmark, but whether we can find a better way to protect the children while they are on Soulsmark, I would very, very much like to be a part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131027	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131028	Basically, I think it is about whether the Social Democratic Party agrees with what a rapporteur from the Danish People's Party also said or probably thinks that children's well-being should not stand in the way of strict immigration policy. I just want to hear, and I actually think there are a lot of other people who want to, from Mrs. Mette Frederiksen own mouth when you want to be the prime minister of the children that that is not the case. It is the well-being of children that is most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131100-2	I believe that both are important and, of course, I would insist that we can find a solution that is better than the one we know today to meet both needs. I also think it is important when we discuss Soulsmark, to keep reminding each other of who we are dealing with. We are not dealing with refugees or asylum families; we are dealing with people who have come to Denmark, who have applied for asylum, and who the authorities, an independent Refugee Board, have assessed are not refugees and therefore have to leave Denmark, so we have room, so to speak, for those who are. Then there are some children who get into trouble. We always have a special responsibility for them, and I would very much like to discuss how we can protect the childhood that is lived for months, for example, when you are in Soulsmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131144	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131149	Thank you. Mrs Mette Frederiksen spoke of the possibility of moving back to an area if there was a good job to do. The prerequisite for getting a job is, of course, that there are some companies left. The prerequisite for companies to remain is that we do not destroy them, among other things. by paying for a generational change. I need to understand why it is important for Mrs Mette Frederiksen that a family that has built up a company and created hundreds of jobs should withdraw money from the company when it is to be inherited, in order to give more money to the state and thus risk jobs. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131228	I think it is important that we have a fair inheritance tax, and I think it is important that we always support that companies remain in Danish hands and that production is maintained, not least for the sake of many of the outermost regions where the production companies are precisely. As far as inheritance taxation is concerned, I think there are a few things that concern me. First of all, it is our clear position that we should be able to avoid paying inheritance tax if, for example, we do not pay inheritance tax. allow its business to operate as a fund. Secondly, we now have a grace regime when you pay the inheritance tax that applies to a change of generation. Perhaps we should spend some time discussing whether we could arrange it in a way so that we ensure that the company stays in Denmark and the production continues, but so, of course, there is still a contribution to the community with an inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131316	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131317	So should I understand that what we are promised today is that it should not, of course, cost jobs to make a generational change in our company? In other words, there are many, many thousands of companies in the coming years facing a change of generation. After all, there is a political majority who has reduced the inheritance tax from 15 to 5%. It could also be nice that it was 0. I just have to say that this isn't about some people putting something in their pockets. This is about getting real jobs and not losing jobs because the state needs some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131353-2	But if it is not for the Conservatives that people should be able to put money in their pockets, but that they can reinvest and continue to run a good Danish company, then we could make sure that the inheritance tax went off the profits that had to be generated in the years after. I'm not so concerned about when the inheritance tax will fall. What I am concerned about is that everyone answers theirs and that, of course, in the case of inheritance, you contribute what you have to do. However, if we can reach a political agreement on how an inheritance tax takes place and where we take it of an ongoing profit from companies, then I would very much like to be involved in discussing it with the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131428	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131432	Inequality is rising under this government, and unfortunately more people are living in poverty. Over 60,000 children now live in poverty in Denmark. I would like to hear from Mrs Mette Frederiksen what she will do about child poverty if she becomes Prime Minister after the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131448-2	I do not think that real child poverty is linked to being a modern welfare society, and I have no doubt that growing up with it can cost children a great deal. That is why we will take action against child poverty, and I hope, of course, that we will have a new political majority to support it. We have to do this wisely, and we have to do it purposefully, and not least we have to base it on the right numbers. That is why it will be my proposal and our proposal that, following a parliamentary election, we should set up a Services Commission, which should have a maximum. One year to work so that we find the right balance between, on the one hand, helping some children who today suffer deprivation because of their parents' situation and, on the other hand, getting more people to work. And until then, we can make such a determined effort for the children. It can, for example, be done. be by ensuring that everyone can go to the leisure activities that we know are an important part of growing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131536	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131537	It is not only children who are experiencing that inequality is increasing that there are actually more and more people in this country who are becoming worn out and therefore find it difficult to cope with the labour market until they actually reach retirement age. They are particularly marked by the fact that a government made a pre-retirement reform before 2011. What will social democracy do for the many people who are worn out but who cannot retire? Is it also an area that will be high on the Social Democratic agenda after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131607	Yes, that is it, and I think that we are now really beginning to see the consequences of the de facto abolition of early retirement, and I have no illusion whatsoever that all those who are now being asked to work longer can honour it. There is a very, very big difference between when we start on the labour market and there is a very big difference between the wear and tear in the different job functions, and there is a group that we need to take better care of. Yes, it would be a major priority for a social democratic government if there were to be one after the election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131637	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131641	Thank you. I would like to start from what Mrs Mette Frederiksen started out with, namely how we ensure that people also stay in the outskirts, out in the province or whatever words we now need to use, because I think it is a really relevant question to raise. One of the things that the government has done is to give people a greater opportunity, if the local primary school is centralised and put together with a school in one of the major cities, to be able to choose a free school. We think that is a very good move. I have heard from the Social Democrats that they have an ambition that fewer people should go to free schools and that more people should go to public schools. It sounds like an approach that is moving in the opposite direction to precisely what Mrs Mette Frederiksen's ambition was. So can we get a little more information about how this is going to happen? For example, is it... by increasing user charges so that we come back in the direction that perhaps it was before, where only the rich and the resourceful etc. could choose to place their children in free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131741	I think it is a strange symptom treatment that the government first conducts a policy which means in many places that the primary school does not have the resources to run a proper school, and then you set up the grant to the private schools you could also do the opposite. We could, of course, use those resources to ensure that there is a better primary school, but that is an economic and a political priority. And I fully understand that when you are really busy giving tax relief, it can be difficult to prioritize primary school as well. But, of course, the attitude of the Social Democratic Party is quite clear: we have free school elections in Denmark, that is in many ways good, but we do not need a government that favours private schools, by the way, unfortunately in some places at the expense of primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131821	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131823	There was a very little concrete answer to how to push children out of free schools. What are some parents who should fear that it is their children who will not be able to participate in the free choice that lies in choosing the free school, the private school? It is therefore a municipal matter, whether you centralize schools, it is not something we decide in this Parliament, but a consequence of doing so can make it more difficult to settle out locally. That's why it's a really good move to give this one the opportunity that you shouldn't have as high a user fee as you had to in the past, in relation to choosing the private free school. I hear that this is some of the things that will be brought to light by the Social Democratic Party can be confirmed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131903	Yes, sir. Anders Samuelsen! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131904	But the Folketing will have to take responsibility because when hospitals are closed, when train routes are closed, when police stations are closed, when schools are closed, this is because the local economy is not good enough to raise the level of welfare that we want. That is the consequence of the policy pursued. I am against centralisation, I want to go the opposite way. On the specific question, I would like to say that our proposal is quite simple: the increased subsidy, that is, the exceptionally high subsidy which this government chooses to grant to private schools, we would rather spend in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131939	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115131943	When we last had a question time with the Prime Minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen called the paradigm shift we did not know at the time, or the integration stop for common sense. It later turned out to contain pruning, among other things. the benefits to those who already have the least in Danish society. That's what you might be wondering. Today, it is Lindholm where Mrs Mette Frederiksen says: we fully support the idea. I guess it's just not Lindholm. What is unclear is: What about the children in Soulsmark? There are 35 children who have now lived there longer than a year, I think it is. When we sat in government together last time, we said that children should not live in an exit centre until the exit was imminent. Does Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democratic Party also agree that children can live indefinitely in the Soulsmark Kaser, even though we have the Ombudsman's word that it damages their life development opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132034-2	No, but we agree with legal certainty and respect for the law, and that applies to everyone. And it is quite untenable that very many families who have their asylum applications rejected actually leave Denmark as they should, and that then there is a group that does not and which then has to have some special privileges. That's not gonna work. It has to be so that when you come as a refugee to Denmark and seek asylum and the authorities consider that you are not a refugee, then you have to leave our country again or the entire refugee system will fall apart. The refugees who must be in Denmark are those who need our protection. Then there are some children who get stuck because of their parents' decision, and of course we have to shield them as well as we possibly can, and I think we can do better than what is happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132114	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132116	But history is repeating itself a little, because it is not new that we have rejected asylum seekers, families who do not leave and who cannot be sent out. We also had that when we were in government last time, and we agreed that children's families should not be put into an exit centre until their departure was under planning and imminent. The question that remains, because it gets a little fuzzy, what Mrs Mette Frederiksen says is: what are you going to do? How will the Social Democratic Chairman of the Children's Committee in Hørsholm be accommodated, who says that 40%. of the reports of displeasure among children in Hørsholm Municipality comes from the Travel Centre Sjælsmark? How long are the kids gonna stay? What improvements are planned by Mrs Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132157-2	Well, actually, I think we can find a solution where we help those children who are having a hard time in Soulsmark, but sir... Morten Østergaard has yet to answer the central question: how will the Radical Left ensure that rejected asylum seekers leave Denmark? In order to claim that the previous government solved the problem, it is simply not correct. Even then, asylum seekers and criminal asylum seekers were rejected, who violated Community rules and did not leave Denmark. And I would like to focus on what is crucial, namely that the refugees who are to enjoy protection in Denmark should actually be refugees. Those who are not must leave our country, so we have room to protect some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132234	Thank you. And then it's sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132237	Thank you for this new form of debate. It will be interesting how it develops. Of course, I feel like my good colleague, sir. Morten Østergaard, to ask what it really is the Social Democracy has of proposals to solve the problem with the children in Soulsmark. Should those proposed by the Social Democratic Party be forcibly removed or, at least, proposed by a leading member of the Social Democratic Party? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132301	There are no Social Democrats who have proposed the forced removal of children. There is a Social Democrat who has quite rightly found that it can be done. That's different. Surely we could not dream of putting forward a proposal that children should be forced to be removed if there is no basis for this. Moreover, when we look beyond Danish society and exposed children, we have the attitude that there are children who should be placed outside the home who are not today. But of course we should not have a situation where that is what will be the answer to Soulsmark's challenges. But everyone, including those who do not support Soulsmark, has an obligation to use their speaking time to tell the Danes: How will you ensure that rejected asylum seekers leave Denmark? Therefore we hold fast in Soulsmark, but again, I want to be a part of discussing how we can help the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132344	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132346	It was actually something quite different that I really would have asked Mrs Mette Frederiksen about, but I have to keep it here, because one thing is what we do with the adults who live in Soulsmark and are there for quite certain reasons, but another thing is what we do with the children on whom we know there are reports? The Ombudsman has commented on this and assessed it and concluded, so what is the Social Democratic solution to the totally unhappy situation in which these children find themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132420	First of all, it is an unfortunate situation. And then we have to ensure that their families leave Denmark, because it is not least the waiting time that is a burden. It is for the parents, and of course it is for the children. What is the question is how we can arrange the waiting time that may be so that we can protect the children in the best way possible. I have said that I would like to take part in the discussion. There have been no negotiations on this. I think we should have that, because everyone in the Parliament should have an interest in protecting the children who are there in the best way possible, regardless of what we think of Soulsmark. It may be that we need to look at whether the leisure facilities are good enough, whether the educational facilities are good enough, whether there is the help needed when the children are at risk. That is one of the things I think we should address.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132509	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132512	Thank you. There are many things you might want to ask, but I didn't think it was quite clear where the Lindholm Center should lie when it shouldn't be on Lindholm. But I'm going to ask you something else. It is based on the fact that when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was last in government, my party voted for the ambition to turn DONG into an international leading green company. That is why, on a socialist proposal, we allowed foreign capital in. And that is also why we have agreed in the conciliation circle that DONG, now Ørsted, should have the opportunity to sell off non-core business in order to focus on what Ørsted needs to be, namely to be a globally leading green company that makes green energy. There has been a very long process in the conciliation circle in confidence. There's been stock-exchange-sensitive information. And very, very unusual, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party then chooses to send a letter this weekend, pulling the curtain away during the whole process that puts our joint business in a new situation. You had the prospect of getting a two-digit billion-dollar capital injection to promote this green transition, and now you have lost values, a price that has fallen, and without this capital injection. I just want to ask what thoughts have been made about ensuring that Ørsted can get the free funds that are needed to make this green transition, which I assume we both ideally want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132637	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132638	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says that Radius is no longer a core task for Ørsted. That may be true, but it is, of course, a key task for us as a parliament and for myself, as chairman of the Social Democrats, to ensure that what is critical infrastructure remains critical infrastructure in such a way that there is democratic control and influence and that, of course, the Community has a decisive voice in what is vital for all of us. Therefore, it has always been the basis for negotiations on the sale of Radius that the final sale should return to the conciliation circle. And when it has always been a well-known premise, it is, of course, because both the government and we have known that we could get into a situation where we would not be able to approve the final owner. That's what's happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132718	Thank you. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132720	That is, in fact, a very easy way to answer. Now it is the case that what was there is a little difficult, because you cannot really refer to the fact that the community's interests were just taken into account, among other things. by ensuring that a buyer could not re-sell to someone we could not dream of letting into Denmark, i.e. a clause on it until we are in the process of what I also assume we agree to make a Danish legislation that screens foreign investment. But that's not really what I was asking. I asked more about what thought has been given to ensuring that Ørsted can continue this green transformation, now that a capital injection of perhaps +20 billion has been made. kr. that was in this, isn't there. So where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132807	First of all, it is a pity that we do not have any more time, because this is a rather important discussion, and I simply do not agree with the Prime Minister that the government has taken care of the Community's interests. If you had done that, you'd have found another buyer, and we'd have been in a different situation. After all, we are reacting because, when it comes to critical infrastructure, we are of the very, very clear view that one of two things must be met: either it must be consumer driven and based, or it must be in a construction in which the public always has the decisive voice, by the way, as it originally was when it sold DONG. That is not what is happening in connection with the sale of Radius, and that is why I am not sure that the interests of the Community at the time we are in the process are being taken care of well enough, and that is why I am responding. So this is ultimately a political choice of how we want to manage some of the values that are in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132856	Thank you. And then there is no further comment on Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115132910	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the innovation. It will be exciting to follow this new form of debate, where the parties are competing against each other, and not as it used to be an opposition to a government. This requires a little adaptation for all of us and, above all, for the ministers who are taking part in such a debate as this one. It's gonna be exciting. I would first like to say that we are very pleased that we got the country a financial agreement at the end of last year. In particular, I would like to draw attention to two areas. We have had a number of adjustments made to the immigration policy aimed at ensuring the paradigm shift that we have talked about, how much more return rather than stay here in Denmark than we have seen historically. It needs to be introduced in legislative terms now, so that we can ensure that this happens. And we're looking to get legislation in place before the Prime Minister presses the button and issues parliamentary elections. In any case, it is important for us to get this right. The second point I would like to mention about the financial law agreement is the conditions of pensioners. It was important for us in the negotiations back in the autumn that we were given more money for our pensioners, so that they too can feel that things are going better economically in the country of origin. And, of course, 1.3 billion has been set aside. kr. net extra for pensioners. In the coming months, of course, pensioners will have to see that money comes out to pensioners in particular, so that they can see that it actually does happen. We have to do that before the Prime Minister presses the button and issues parliamentary elections. Hopefully we will also have to find an understanding here in the Assembly on health. We very much look forward to the government putting forward a proposal for a health reform. For us in the Danish People's Party, a health reform is aimed at ensuring greater proximity in our healthcare system. In recent weeks there has been too much focus on Systemdanmark. There have been long discussions up posts and down walls about how the system should be set up. Should the regions be there or should the regions not be there? I think many Danes have thought: Where did the patients go throughout that discussion? For us, it's about the patients. It is about the fact that when we have the new reality in our health care, that if you have to operate, have a treatment in a hospital, you have to put up with going further away from your home. I think you will be reasonably satisfied with that if you get better treatment in the hospital you arrive at. However, everything that can be done that does not require specialised hospital treatment must be dealt with as locally as possible, in other words as close to where the citizen lives. Everything that lies before and after hospitalization must also be able to handle locally. We need to build that up. This requires a much stronger focus. This requires a new strategy for our health care. And when we talk about health reform, we are really talking about ensuring that. Then it is only logical for us that the regions no longer have the role they have today. Then we can do without the regions. But that is what needs to be carried: the patient first, and then we set up the system not the other way around, because one could almost believe that as a citizen of this country, when one has heard the debate over the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133224	Thank you. This time, speaking time was also fully respected, and that is wonderful. Then there are a large number of comments, and the first is from Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133232	I am going to ask about something quite different from what the speech contained. After all, we all have sister parties around the world to whom congratulations are given when choices and things go well. I saw that the Danish People's Party sent congratulations to Sweden's Democrats when they had a good election in Sweden four months ago; but I also saw that Søren Espersen congratulated Viktor Orbán in Hungary for the good election he had at the last election. When we send congratulations to a sister party, we do so because we share a community of values and because we can see that there is something here we agree on. So my question is: what is this community of values that is between the Danish People's Party and Viktor Orbán's party in Hungary? If there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133322	We don't have sister parties in the sense that I think Mr. Uffe Elbæk is asking in her question here, which means that it is not in the sense that we congratulate a sister party. We can congratulate ourselves in the sense that there are some political trends that we think are right, and it is clear that in relation to the European Union, in relation to the balance between what nation states in the European Union should take care of and what the European Union should take care of, it is quite well known that the Danish People's Party wants the nation states to decide something more • that is, more Europe of the countries of origin than the way forward towards the United States of Europe. It is clear that the parties and the currents that can help to pull in this direction in the Member States, we think that we are getting some popular support from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133406	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133408	I hear that as a rather significant answer. But thank you for that. Is it to be understood here that we should congratulate ourselves after any European election, which is the expression of a national conservative or even nationalist attitude, which Viktor Orbán is at least the expression of? What is happening in Hungary right now is deeply worrying, so am I to understand that there is a Danish party that is actually sending congratulations on what is happening in Hungary? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133448	No, things are going on in Hungary, as is the case in other countries that I do not like. But that is not what this debate for me is about, because what it is about is whether, in fact, we in the European Community should have a greater degree of representation of people who think that the countries themselves, that is, the nation states, the countries of origin, should be allowed to decide something more, that is to say that the balance must be adjusted. And there I think that a party like Viktor Orbáns in Hungary advocates that line, but they also have other things that I could speak much more critically about. The Swedish Democrats advocate the line we have an Austrian government party, and we have the AfD in Germany who champions that line. In other words, there are parties around the European countries that are actually pulling in that direction, and I think that is very interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133530	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133535	I would like to congratulate you on the financial agreement, not because I agree, but because I think it is very clear what happens when it is the Danish People's Party that has to deliver the crucial votes to a financial agreement that has been extremely expensively paid for. Speaking of citizens' concerns, I believe that many people still find it amazing that 759 million could be found. kr. for the project with Lindholm in Stege Bay, which doesn't arise from a new issue... people on toiled stays and things like that have always had to be handled... but by the fact that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Minister for Integration agreed to first gather the problem in Bording at Ikast, where it has created insecurity, for then it is now moving the problem down to the Stegekanten, where it creates insecurity. My question is: is it not a little violent to spend 759 million? kr. to create insecurity in one place in Denmark instead of finding a proper solution that provides security for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133633	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133633-2	I have noted that Mr. Morten Østergaard's solution is to create insecurity as many places as possible. It is the radical immigration policy that prevails here. It's not the Danish People's Party. We want to solve the problems and ensure that there is less insecurity. Optimally, at best it happens by the fact that these people are not in Denmark at all. Well, the success criterion for this island is that nobody's going on the island at all. As this island starts to get ready, hopefully these people are starting to think that maybe they should get out of this country because they have nothing to do here. They have been expelled from Denmark. They have been sentenced, among other things. have been told that they should not be in Denmark. It would be fantastic if the Radical Left were to agree that that was the objective of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133713	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133715	I agree with that wholeheartedly. The aim is for those who are not legally resident in Denmark to travel out. That is not what we are discussing. I think you've just had enough of Mr. Bording at Ikast. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's offer of what gives security when you live in a place where you didn't think there was a need to lock the door and now do it. I think you've had enough of Mr. Kalvehave. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's foreign policy, which under a tab that claims to create security, now creates insecurity and will do so for years. I guess you miss someone really, but I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: If the police authorities in Denmark said that what would actually increase the security risk around those concerned, could it change that? Could we then spend the money in a better way that provided security for all and reduced the safety risks of those who are perhaps dangerous?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133801	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133802	There is no doubt that the policy of the Danish People's Party creates greater security than the policy of the Radical Left. The Danish People's Party's policy ensures that there are fewer people coming to Denmark. We have seen that historically, we have reason to say so. When the Radical Left has influence, more will come to Denmark, too, those who are not supposed to be here, but are going out again. It is harder, once they have come here, to get them out again, which is why it is also a solution for fewer people to come here. Then there's this thing with this island: is it more likely that these people find it awful to be in Denmark, and if they are somewhere where they can go freely back and forth, because they are in an area, in a geography where you can just go out and in? After all, there is a discussion here about ferry departures and the like that makes it difficult for these people. I know this is a better solution than the one we come from. I miss hearing the Radical Left's offer of real solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133848	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133851	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. In fact, I was very pleased with the comments on health, because if we have a common interest in creating a health service with more proximity, it was not some others, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was supposed to make health policy with? I think that in the Danish People's Party there must also be a post-evaluation of the municipal reform in 2007, because on paper it might look good, but when we look at Denmark today, there is There is There is And I'll think that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl experiences the same as I do: When you get a little away from the cities, there is in many places a frustration that the distances have become too large. So, if you are concerned about proximity, should you not consider making health policy with parties that are preoccupied with nearby, rather than repeating the 2007 centralisation exercise?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115133948	We are also working with the Social Democratic Party on many things, and I think that is very good. Here it is just to emphasise that our starting point for health policy is that it is fine that there are some treatments that take place in some specialised hospitals carried out by some highly skilled doctors and other health professionals and that take place far away from where we live. People like to accept that. On the other hand, we must now make a health reform in which much more things can be resolved in the future in our immediate neighbourhood. That is our starting point. It is for us to see no centralisation. It is for us to see the opposite. It's decentralisation. Then, of course, the system needs to be designed so that it can handle it. It is just that I feel confirmed that, in this situation, it is difficult to see what the regions really should be there for, and that is why we are achieving what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134037	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134038	I hope you will tread cautiously, for all the experience with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and health policy are centralisation. The second experience the Danes have had with the Prime Minister when it comes to health policy is the overpayment of the private hospitals that they deliberately chose to bring money directly from Danish patients into the corridors of private hospitals. I really hope that this exercise will not happen again, and therefore a question to Mr Beazley. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Will the Danish People's Party help ensure that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen again is not allowed to overpay the private hospitals with a health reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134114	Well, now it's a special form of discussion. I understand that Mrs Mette Frederiksen really would very much like to discuss this matter with Mr Mette Frederiksen. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and then she's arguing through me. It may be that there will be an opportunity to take a direct infight on this. Our view is that the discussion we are going to have here about the health reform has nothing to do with private hospitals. It has something to do with setting up the public health service in a way that gives the Danes the most optimal health care. For us, there are a lot of things that can be solved closer to where people live, so it will be much easier for the Danes in the future. In other words, when there is an opportunity that the perhaps half a million outpatient treatments that are taking place today in the hospital can take place closer to people's homes, then it is an advantage for the local democracy: that you experience things in your vicinity. It is far better than having to go far away to get into a specialised hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134206	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134208	Thank you for the post and focus on health. I quite agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that it must be about patients, and first of all patients must be in focus in the whole of this discussion between region and municipality and in fact the practicing doctor. Some call it the Bermuda Triangle. I hope that is not the case, because then the patient will disappear, and I suppose that is not the intention in any way whatsoever. One of the things that is absolutely essential for health to be raised and improved is, of course, also a discussion on public expenditure, and that is why I would like to ask Mr Beazley. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, whether the Danish People's Party will help increase public spending more than the 0.3 per cent that the government has proposed, so that we will just solve it, that we will have more elderly people and more people who will need treatment in our health system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134252	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134254	That is our clear starting point. We believe that we should basically try to organise an economic policy that is about the public sector having real growth similar to demographic development. We think that is what it takes. I know that there are people talking about the need for even more to meet the expectations of people as well. So this is what we think it takes to ensure that when there are more elderly people and more health cares and so on, there must also be money to do good with, including for the public sector, so that we can get such a good offer in the public sector that we really do not need to solve things privately. Especially when it comes to our health care, it is one of the most important things in our core welfare thinking, so we need to focus strongly on our health sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134343	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134346	I agree with that. Over the next few years, we're going to see sosu assistants and nurses retire on a large scale. We have always talked about 2020 becoming the major challenge because we are going to lack nurses and sosu assistants on a very large scale, and here it is not enough just to talk about whether there is more money in the health system, but we also need to make it a little bit attractive to work in the health system. One of the things that staff are talking about in the public sector is that it is running faster and faster and that there are fewer and fewer people on more and more tasks. That is why it is not enough just to talk about the demographic challenge. Will Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl open up the bag a little bit? It is not with the bourgeois that we can succeed in carrying out that task, but perhaps with some of us. In any case, we are ready to work together on this. Will Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl reveals what we are really talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134441	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134443	But exactly what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has mentioned here was the focal point for us to demand this 2-percent efficiency requirement that was against the hospitals, and it got away just over a year ago. It was, of course, an important size in order to avoid the fact that you just have to keep running stronger and stronger, because there is a strong concern here to take into account that the working environment and working conditions in a hospital for our skilled health care professionals are of a nature, so you actually manage to go to work and also keep going to work. One of our challenges in health care is that the skilled employees find other places where there is not as stressful a day-to-day as there are many hospital wards. So we look exactly the same on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134525	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134528	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, in his speech here, speaks of pensioners and the result obtained in the financial agreement for the pensioners. One of the things that has happened recently is that we have talked a lot about retirement age, and back in November, I think, there was a financial rapporteur from the Danish People's Party who said very clearly that we would not vote for an increase in retirement age. We would not be voting in favour of this. I think there were a lot of people, especially those with the hard jobs and those who have been long on the labour market, who were really happy to hear that. Then came mr. However, Kristian Thulesen Dahl put the rapporteur in his place and said that he intended to stand by the agreement and thus also vote for an increase in the retirement age as early as next year when it is to be voted on again. Is it true that next year, when it comes to voting on it, the Danish People's Party will press green for a yes to raising the pensionable age?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134626	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134627	We stand by the agreement we made in the welfare settlement back in 2006, and also the adjustment that happened, I think it was in 2011, and that means that the agreements we make can of course be counted on and therefore also vote on it. It's clear. What has then been discussed, and which is a profoundly relevant discussion, is how to ensure those people who are, after all, part of an increasing retirement age who are worn out and unable to stand on the labour market until that retirement age. So what do we do for them? There we have at least a discussion about the need for new tools, the need for new measures to ensure that those who are actually worn out do not have to stay as long as others.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134712	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skip. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134718	Thank you. It's just that I don't agree entirely. I think it should be the case in a welfare society that when you retire, you do not have to be worn out. Well, it's actually okay that there's some body left for you to be able to lift the grandchildren or walk in the garden, and that the thing about retiring and leaving must be a right you have, even before you're completely worn out. But I have a question for Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because I think a lot of people have seen Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is touring land and rich around with Mrs Mette Frederiksen and telling about how pensionable age should not rise. I'd just like to ask, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl confirms that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the rest of the Danish People's Party intend to vote for an increase in retirement age, because that is what it means when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that the agreement will be respected and that no settlement will be reached from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134806	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134807	But it's not hard at all. All the places where I have been asked about this, I have confirmed that we are, of course, standing by the agreements we are making. There was then a proposal from the government, as Mrs Pernille Skipper will of course recall, that the retirement age should be increased further beyond what was originally agreed, and we said no to that. We do not think it should be done, for example. also because we think that it is now about getting the full focus on the people who are being worn out and unable to keep to the retirement age that you will have and that they need to be helped. The welfare society is also helping those people away from the labour market in the past so that they get a dignified departure to old age, among other things. in order to ensure what Mrs Pernille Skippe here puts the emphasis on, that it is therefore the very best thing if you also get some good years in your old age, where you can carry around the grandchildren, perhaps even the great-grandchildren and the like, and thank God many can. But there are some who have such grueling jobs that it requires special attention, special conditions on our part, in order for them to be able to do so, and we must of course give them those conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134909	Then there are no further comments. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Let's move on. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Left. I think it has been quite good to keep to the speaking time, so I would ask you to continue with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115134929	Thank you. Exciting, exciting. New challenges call for new solutions. This has always been the case, and that is what has made Denmark strong. And Denmark is more sick who survive cancer. When I myself became Minister for Health back in 2001 and I understand from Mrs Mette Frederiksen that I have then made two long-term observations it was less than half of all cancer patients who survived that disease. Today it's close to two out of three. It's good, and it hasn't come by itself. For progress comes from vision and courage to take on the challenges before they grow too big, and that was what happened through the 00s: a massive injection of resources into health care, the money follows the patient, second opinion panel, patient rights, a stronger health board, which took responsibility for a specialty planning, where we brought together the treatment of the vital diseases at fewer addresses, more competent, the closure of counties, super hospitals. That's what pulled it. So it is today. Changes may be necessary to drive things forward. Things do not come by themselves, and even if we have a better health care system, it is also to see the challenges. For many patients, health care is experienced in a way where you have to be strong to be sick, where one hand does not always know what the other does. Too many people have to travel too far to get uncomplicated treatment or control, for example. patients with the lung disease col or diabetes 2, and many more come: up to 250,000 +75-year-olds just over the next 10 years, almost twice as many diabetics, 30-40 percent. More col-patients. There is still too much difference in treatment, depending on where you live, among other things. in the detection, investigation and treatment of cancer patients, and it has to be said quite quietly that patients' rights are not respected equally well everywhere, and that is what we need to do something about. For treatment should not depend on the zip code. That is why I fully share the view that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl argued here that we should put the patient first. We must put the patient first and move the treatment closer, and if there is a need to adjust in old-fashioned structures, of course we must be prepared to do so. And it is my party, and it is the government, and we are looking forward very soon to presenting a coherent proposal for some necessary changes to make a good Danish health service better. And I would very much regret if anyone has already drawn the conclusions in advance on whether one wants to participate offensively and constructively in a discussion on what we can do to further promote the optimal life situation of Danish patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135255	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135259	First of all, thank you for a good speech, not necessarily this one, but the New Year's speech. In the New Year's speech, the Prime Minister also struck a blow for the climate. I think there was an agreement that the speech was really, really good, but what about action? Is there action behind all the fine words? My question concerns the whole issue of biodiversity. We are told by one expert after another that biodiversity is in the event, so what is the Liberal proposal to solve that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135336	Thank you for that, and thank you for the nice words about the speech. Of course there is action behind it, and action is many things. That is also why I took up the theme which may seem to be a little difficult, namely the one about Radius and Ørsted. It is also an act to create the possibility that a large, global, leading Danish company has muscle power to continue a green transformation. As far as biodiversity is concerned, we have laid out considerably more untouched forests than what the government before us did and, when asked to the Left, it will also be a forward-looking Left priority. How nice it is to be able to stand here and talk about the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135422	The alternative has proposed 20%. natural zone, and we have also proposed 100 per cent. untouched forest. Even though Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is pleased with the ambition that the government has set for untouched forest, the question is: is it ambitious enough if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has to assess himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135454	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135456	Thank you. So, as chairman of my own party, the Left, it is a very easy question to answer. I would say that the ambitions we put in our party represent the right level of ambition, otherwise we would put them differently. Well, it's gonna be kind of an empty answer. But there is no doubt that we must continue this development. We must also do this in relation to some long-term structural challenges in Danish agriculture. We must then do it properly so that we also ensure that there is an economic bearing capacity in our profession. However, all that has to do with targeting regulation, having agricultural land that does not have a large quantity of tuna over time and transforming them into nature and something like that is a trend that I am in favour of. Then it will surely be the case that there will be a different temperament in the alternative and in my party, the Left, about the methods used to achieve that objective and the pace at which it is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135555	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135556	It does not seem that we are learning more about the government's green ambitions today, but the health ambitions can be heard. I did it between Christmas and New Year that I went on a shift at Hvidovre Hospital to see how practice is n (V): No, how exciting). And it was really exciting, but what turned out, whether it was nurses, doctors, porters, sosus or others, was that what they were very busy with was getting room for these medical patients as it was about. And what was, as it were, my impression after talking to them and patients and relatives was that this is largely the result of the priority that has been given to the health policy of the Left, which has focused on other things. In other words, the fact that outpatient treatments were to take place very quickly has caused the complicated procedures to be lost. That is why the question is whether one does not correct the bakery for blacksmiths when one now focuses on the regions instead of taking responsibility for themselves and saying that the lack of capacity is actually the result of the Left's health policy. And that is why I appeal not to drown in the shame of reform that patient and staff organisations have talked about, and instead of starting a huge debate on the survival of the regions now, focus on what we actually agree on, that is to say we owe it to the medical patients and the staff who have to take care of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135715	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135716	Thank you. Well, I am not in the world here today to explain the government's policy, because the Folketing has chosen a format in which to explain my own party's policy. Fortunately, there is a great coincidence. Great respect for having visited a hospital during the Christmas holidays and with it as an experience base gives me this warning. I myself have been interested in this for a little longer, and so I share the analysis that something more needs to be done for medical patients and older patients. And where what drove the last changes was to gather the highly specialised treatment to meet a backlog that was that Danes simply survived life-threatening diseases much worse than in comparable countries, then the forward-looking focus of what we are soon presenting is the context, it is bridge-building, it is the patient first, it is to avoid unnecessary rehousing, it is to ensure that runners can go to control and finishing close to where they live, rather than at the hospitals that I admit already today are under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135815	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135820	What I am really just appealing to is that, when we all agree that this is where the challenge lies, and people around us, whether they are patients, relatives or representatives of the staff groups, say that we would rather not have any huge administrative and structural reform, we could not agree on that today. I think that would be a relief to say that this is not an administrative reform in which we change these structures, i.e. whether there are elected regions or not, we save that discussion for after a choice, but that what it is about is what we can do here and now to increase capacity so that we take better care of the medical patients? Or has the Chairman of the Left made an agreement with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about the closure of the regions and the fact that this is really what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135907	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115135908	I don't think you can just decouple those things and say that whether organisations, cooperation patterns and partnerships are voluntary or binding doesn't matter, because now we just have to do everything well. Because I think that is basically an ambition that everyone is in favour of. I think that our talented staff and there are over 140,000 people in the healthcare sector every day meet in with that ambition. But that's why it's not gonna work anyway. In many ways, of course, I am delighted these days that the changes we made historically and as Mr. Morten Østergaard's party was opposed on long stretches, as Mrs Mette Frederiksens was, now apparently so strong that it is the answer to everything and that it must not be tampered with. And I am not going to stand here and say that because we were right once and did something that the Radical Left and the Social Democrats did not like and which is now being advocated as the solution to everything, we are also right when we propose it changed. However, we take the risk and we will propose some changes to the way we have organised our health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140001	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140004	The Prime Minister began by commending Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because he was just focusing on the patient, and said that this was actually the ambition of the Left, and the discussion ends with the Prime Minister and Mr. Morten Østergaard becoming a structural discussion. I would like us to go further and talk about the challenges we actually have in the health service and not just have our eyes fixed on that organization, because sometimes it is that the problems are not always solved. And then we can mock each other inside and say: Yes, but you have done it, and you did it, and you didn't do it 10 years ago, etc., but the important thing must be that we still have people in our health system who aren't getting the right treatment... medical patients, psychiatric patients and others. Can the Prime Minister or the President of the Left, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen What else is this all about, apart from the regions? Is this going to be about more than structures, i.e. also resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140103	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140105	Unfortunately, I don't think I'm able to unfold in 30 seconds, so there's gonna have to be patience. I was wondering if I should quote a predecessor and say: there will be a good solution in... When was that again? We're gonna have a play soon. Well, I can't reasonably answer this in 30 seconds, but I'll answer it with the structure that I'm being asked about. For me, it's about the patients first. It's not putting patients first when people cancel an operation at the Skejby Hospital and then get a letter saying that the breast-preserving surgery we're going to do as a conclusion to your cancer treatment has been cancelled. You can rejoin in March 2021. I'll see you later; that's not putting the patients first. It screams that we give the individual patient stronger rights. That will be part of what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140157	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140159	Thank you. Of course, the challenge is also that the present structure is not perfect. Then you can choose to say that you're creating a whole new structure. You can also try to fix the structure that is there and make sure that some of what works out there ensures that our hospitals are really good at diagnosing. You don't send the patient around, you send the doctors around, so you start with the patient. We know that Esbjerg has a very good follow-up work in relation to the municipality when people are released, among other things. elderly medical patients. We know that if you are based on the general practitioner, you will also have a permanent person attached to the patient, and that is one of the things we need to discuss: what is it that can solve it? But I would really like to go further and take not only the physical diseases but also the mental illnesses. Will they have room? Because it's really the new, big folklore disease that we're talking about stress-depression-anxiety. Yes, it's almost grotesque that we haven't found a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140252	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140253	Well, I agree very much. Stress anxiety is developing into a people's disease, and if we are going to deal with it - there is everything else that is the aspect of prevention: why is it coming at all, and how have we screwed our society together? Very, very much agree. Moreover, I agree with everything that was said in this way, including the good examples that exist out there. That is why I would also like to say that my ambition and that of the government is not a huge rethink of what we know of Denmark. That is to take down the progress we have made over the last 10 years and reflect on what it takes for the next 10 years. So, can you really be inspired by something that happens out there, and can you put it in a system, adjust some organization and some funding, promote it, so that this positive development is going to go faster? That's kind of what it's carried off.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140353	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140357	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was very concerned about whether I asked the Prime Minister the same questions. I really do want to do that. No one has been able to fail to notice that this whole question of fear of a new round of centralisation has also really been the subject of discussion in the Left, what one might call the right Left. That is why I cannot help asking the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister thinks that it is quite by chance that many of the representatives of the left in Jutland have reacted in this discussion. These are the great left names in South Jutland and West Jutland and North Jutland. Do you not think there is a connection with the reality that is experienced, namely that Denmark has become more centralised, that there has been too much political focus on moving vital functions away from many communities? So when many people in the Left are reacting, it is because you do not actually want centralisation, but really want a Denmark where things are connected, and the Prime Minister is no longer the guarantor of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140505	In other words, right up to the last sentence, I would simply reply in the affirmative to what was said, that is, there is a concern that things are not close enough. Now I don't know what the real Social Democracy is for a size. Was it the real Social Democracy of which Mrs Mette Frederiksen was a member when she, as Minister of Justice, laid down the last local police stations in North Jutland, or was it the wrong social democracy, so it is now the right thing to do? Was it the right or wrong Social Democracy, which Mrs Mette Frederiksen chaired when the Social Democracy voted in favour of the whole landscape reform when we did the municipal reform? I have now received all the credit for the municipal reform, and I am glad to take it, but the truth of the matter is that at that time, one hundred per cent of the Social Democrats supported the fact that we made 98 municipalities of the size we have today. What was the difference between the view of the government and the Social Democratic Party was that we think larger municipalities should take on more tasks to move closer from the counties in the municipalities. Social democracy just thinks they should be bigger. Was it the wrong social democracy then?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140603	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140607	Let us at last have a historical discussion. We voted against the municipal reform and even then we were concerned that Denmark should not be centralised. It is the Prime Minister who is responsible for the municipal reform and who, moreover, is essentially responsible for health policy in Denmark, because it has been responsible for 14 years. That is why the relevant question is: is this, as we are used to seeing from the Prime Minister, another round of centralisation, and is waiting there, just as we have seen before, an overpayment to private hospitals, so the focus is not on the patients the Prime Minister likes to talk about, but in fact on something quite different?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140651	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140652	Well, thank you very much for giving me the full responsibility. I don't want to take it. For example: After all, I share the anti-cancer prize with Mr. Bent Hansen, former chairman of Danske Regionser, so I am not going to take responsibility myself. But if you want to give it to me, please, because we have a health service with half-lifes, with significantly better cancer survival, with significantly better survival for heart disease, with some very unique patient rights also measured up in an international landscape, with massive investments in new super hospitals and, incidentally, with a level of funding that is higher than what would have been if Mrs Mette Frederiksen's government had continued. Firstly, this government, when it was elected in 2015, was that we increased the budgets for hospitals by half a billion more than what Mrs Mette Frederiksen's government had done. So thank you for giving me that responsibility... thank you for giving me that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140748	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140749	Thank you. I have to continue this discussion, because it really is recycling at a rather annoying level when we hear the Prime Minister talk over and over again about how well things are going out in the Danish hospitals. So it is simply a mystery to me that the President-in-Office of the Left continues to pretend that things are going so well in the Danish hospitals, because on many points it is because of some public employees who are running extremely fast and who have been subjected for years to savings and cuts and have been asked to run faster and faster. What the President of the Left now wants to say to them is the way I understand the rumors about the future health reform... that they now need to spend a lot of time holding meetings on restructuring and restructuring. And once they have held these meetings, the decisions on how Hjørring hospital should be organized should be taken in here or what is it you want to say to the employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140851	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140853	Well, in that case, the rumors are greatly exaggerated. I am also looking forward to presenting the government's overall bid soon. I'm not standing here saying it's going well, so I'm not. I am pointing to some things that go better than they went, and there is evidence for that. And then I say quite openly that it is to see that there are things that are not going well enough. That is, for example, the case. Not good enough when a female patient has cancelled an operation to complete a cancer treatment course and is told that it is exposed to 2021, without anyone holding her hand saying: We may find another Danish hospital somewhere else in Denmark that can operate it. That's not good enough. It is not good enough when an elderly medical patient is rewritten because the hospital believes that the municipality is ready, and then the municipality is not ready, and then it goes 2 hours, and then the patient is in the hospital again. Well, there are plenty of examples of something that doesn't go well enough. That is, of course, what we want to take, one might say, the consequence of giving an overall well thought-out estimate of where it is, we can adjust some things and also free up some financial resources to invest in the near health care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140955	Yes, please. It's Mrs. Pernille Skipper again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115140958	I think that what makes us all so nervous in here and all those who work in hospitals is that it is a question of restructuring again. I can't guess what's going on in that health reform either. I don't want to do it either, but it's going to be restructuring. And it comes at the same time that hundreds of nurses have been fired around the country, that there have again been cuts and that savings have again been made. I just think that the only thing they want to ask for is that Christiansborg could stop firing their colleagues and then give them some more, because that would be really fine. And then maybe they'd have to handle it too without us coming and telling them how it was all going to be structured. So, in case mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen would start by stopping the cuts, then one could quietly talk about restructuring, and then I think there are many that would be much more secure. But more meetings with PowerPoint show on restructurings and less money are the last thing they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141050	Thank you! We really have to try to keep to the speaking time. It went so well at first, and I would urge that we try to do so, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141100	Well, we're not cutting down. We have provided Danish health care 6 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the parliamentary elections, this is an increase in appropriations in relation to what we took over from the previous government. After all, it is not the government that has been deciding to cut the birth department of the Rigshospitalet down to a level that you have today. That is also why part of our response today is to say that we probably have to give patients a patient right, so that women who are born in the social democratic guided capital region also get a decent maternity offer. I was at Slagelse Hospital yesterday and saw how, in this case, between hospital staff and staff from Slagelse and Sorø municipalities meet in a structured way to talk about the patients who lie and run between hospital and municipality, simply to see if there is anything we can do better. Is it structure to say that it would like to put more into the system because it gives patients better treatment and staff a higher satisfaction? I don't think it is. It is not bureaucracy or structure; it is common sense and that is what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141205	Thank you. And the last one, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141213	Now to something completely different, but it's because we almost have to make it. In other words, the British House of Commons is voting this evening on the brexite agreement between the British Prime Minister and the European Union, and all reports say that she will lose the vote, that the British House of Commons will reject this agreement. And I really think it would be appropriate for the Prime Minister to have an opportunity to tell the Danish Parliament what the Danish position will then be from there, based on the assumption that we are in common about • that it is in Danish interest for Britain to leave the EU with an agreement. We have great export interests in Britain and it will be hard on Danish export industries if there is no agreement, so that this divorce on 29 March takes place under orderly conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141259	Well, I very much agree with that. Now we can hope to the end, and no one knows the outcome of the vote until the vote has been taken. In other words, if that becomes a 'no', our position will depend on how the British Prime Minister handles it. Is it big? Is it smaller? Does she have an analysis that if it's small, it can disappear if you adjust some places in the deal we've made? So, the right of initiative and the obligation of initiative are hers. What I can say overall and I have two seconds left is that we will be flexible and accommodating to the wishes that may be on top of such a vote, including the question of if it makes sense that this Article 50 procedure may be extended, so that there will be some more time. But it is like the fact that there is a British proposal to give it a 'no', we would like that and that. And it must of course be the British Prime Minister who has to put it in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141400	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141401	After all, that is such a relatively uplifting answer in the sense that what has been the EU's position with regard to the British up to this point has been that renegotiation of the agreement is excluded. And then you've tried these cosmetic things around the agreement and tried to reassure the British that this backstop doesn't necessarily come into use. But what the Prime Minister is saying here is a little different. It is in fact that if the British come and say that there is a need to look at the agreement again, then one should be prepared to do so, and I think that should also be the Danish position. It is not certain that such renegotiation will lead to a new agreement. It is not certain that agreement can be reached. However, what the European Union has done so far is to reject in advance the fact that one can go back into the negotiating room and look at it in order to find one another, I think it has been the most attackable thing. I think it would be good if we could agree that, of course, you sit down and try to look at things again in order to find a negotiated solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141459	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141500	But that is not a European rejection. It is also the refusal of the British Prime Minister. It is the case that two parties have negotiated with each other: the EU 27, represented by our negotiator, before and together with a British Prime Minister, who all other things possibly represent Britain. An agreement has been reached on which both sides agree and which the British Prime Minister is in favour of and had a reading of she could get another nod. If she cannot do so, then it is her duty, unless something quite different happens, to reflect on it, and there I think there will be openness in principle. But it will of course depend on the fact that you can be precise. If I may just finish with that, part of the problem is that British policy, which I am not supposed to be aware of, has not dealt with this national challenge in some form of national consensus. This is in stark contrast to the fact that the Danes voted against the Maastricht Treaty and there was a generation of politicians before ours, who, across really deep divisions, got together and formulated a national compromise, went to the European Union and said: we represent a width in the Danish Parliament, and we believe that if we can adjust Denmark's affiliation on these and those points, we have continued to do so. That is the kind of clarity that has been lacking, if we are to be honest now, and if that is a 'no', we must hope that it will lead to clearer political priorities of what is to happen. And if they come, I think there will be a sensitivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141630	Thank you. And then there's no more questioners about sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, but Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, is going on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115141645	On Saturday we had entered the year 12 days, and so-called C25 directors could last the last working day if they could settle for an average annual income. In 12 days, the management boards of the largest companies had, on average, earned the equivalent of an average employee's income. It's pretty crazy. And in a year they will make an average of 14.6 million. kr. There were a whole lot of people who are probably members of the Liberal Alliance who were furious about Enhedslisten pointed out because it was an expression of envy. I just want to say: no. It may well be that there is a permeable envy, but basically it is that we have a real problem with the growing inequality. For the past decades have clearly shown that it does not drip on the clerk when it rains on the priest. On the contrary, the billions spent on tax relief have meant almost a greater concentration of resources on very, very few hands in our society. And when inequality rises, it does not just cover up the fact that there are some who have become richer, it actually also covers up the fact that the poor have become poorer in Denmark and that the small group at the top of our society also escapes from the vast majority. For while at the top of society you have become richer, insecurity has become greater for ordinary Danes. It is the insecurity of our retirement age that increases, in cuts in hospitals and in kindergarten. It is insecure to know that if you become ill or unemployed, a number of years of reform have meant that it will be really, really difficult. And it has to stop. We need to ensure a green transition that can bring us into line with our international commitments. We must develop our welfare and not just stop the cuts. The retirement age should not increase either with what has already been agreed, at least not if it is up to us. And then inequality in our society must also be reduced, so that fewer children grow up in poverty. This is basically a matter of political priority. That's what's interesting about it. We can actually create a secure welfare society, while helping people flee and getting a green transition and a decent welfare society, if we are willing to let those who have the most • who have also got a lot more in the last few decades pay their share of it. The financial sector, which we have all been talking so much about lately and which, as such, also sent the world into economic crisis just ten years ago, has not improved. It is not morale that plagues that part of our society. And they have not since sat down and thought: God, now we must also improve and become good community servants. On the contrary. And once the scandals have appeared and the skeletons have rolled out of the closet, it has continued. Basically, it is about the time that the policy pursued at Christiansborg will be about all those people who do not have millions or billions in tax havens and who cannot afford expensive private hospitals, but who just need a secure Danish welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142006	Thank you. And then there's a series of questions. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142009	I wonder if Mrs. Pernille Skipper can figure out what I'm gonna ask. This is entirely in line with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question a moment ago about brexit, because it is the day when it will be decided in the British Parliament or at least it is an important day. After the vote, it was Mrs Pernille Skipper's view that we should have such a vote in Denmark as well. I think Mrs Pernille Skipper said on that occasion: we must seize this momentum, there is so much scepticism; we must have such a vote in Denmark as soon as possible. And it's even a few years back. Now we have seen what it has become, and my question is: is it still the view of the Enhedslisten that we should proceed to the vote as soon as possible, quite in parallel with what we had in Britain, about continued Danish membership of the European Union? This is not something I would recommend, but I really think, with everything that has happened in the meantime, that it would be good to have a fresh start where Enhedslisten stands today in relation to such a vote on Danish EU membership.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142107	The short answer is no. I wouldn't recommend that. I could figure out what sir. Morten Østergaard wanted to ask, for Mr. Morten Østergaard has asked about this before, and Mr. Morten Østergaard gets the same answer. No, I wouldn't recommend that we do what the British are doing. And the agreement made by the British is not an agreement that I think we should have in Denmark. This is partly because it cements a right-wing, liberal economic policy which does not make it easier for ordinary Britons. What I think we have learned from Brexit is that if you are going to have a vote and I think we should definitely have a renegotiation first, so you know more precisely what you are voting on. One of the problems in Britain right now is that it has not been known in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142152	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142154	It was a much more precise answer and praise for it. That was a clear no to such a Danish vote. I think this is important, because it also reflects, I believe, a development in which, in general, more and more people are joining a Danish membership. But then the answer went on to say that we should start, I understand, if it were for the Enhedslisten, negotiations to withdraw from the European Union and then hold a referendum. That leads to so little elsewhere, you might say, because it ends up that what Enhedslisten really thinks is that a Danish government should start negotiations on the conditions under which Denmark could follow Britain out of the EU. I would not recommend what I think is causing enormous uncertainty. All the issues outlined by Mrs Pernille Skipper, which I agree with far along the way, can be tackled much better in close cooperation with our neighbours through the European Union than by standing outside. However, I would like to know whether it really is Enhedslisten's view that a Danish government should start negotiations on Denmark's withdrawal from the EU with a view to a forthcoming referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142255	I don't think it's gonna come as any news for Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard, when I say that the Enhedslisten is highly skeptical of the European Union as the international cooperation to solve the major international problems we have. This is a problematic project which has only led to an increase in inequality in Europe, not just a 'no', but also a rise in inequality in Europe. I believe that a right-wing economic policy is being imposed, which has led to a reduction in welfare around Europe, and this also helps to create a large part of the insecurity that puts many people in the arms of right-wing nationalist groupings. That is why I believe that we must replace it with another international cooperation. If you're gonna do that, you gotta do it right, and I think... yeah! ) There are probably others who ask me the same question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142349	You can't know that. Sir. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142351	Thank you. There's that discussion about inequality and who's earned a year's salary after 25 days. In other words, if you make it up to a football metaphor, it is hard to prevent people from paying Messi a really, really high salary if you actually think he's worth it, because he helps to help the team play even better and that overall revenue is going to rise for the whole team. You get sponsorship revenue and attention, etc. This is also true in the business world. It is difficult for us in the Folketing to prevent people from giving a business manager a very good salary if you think he is worth it. I guess you get rid of him or her if you don't think so anymore, and then there are some contractual obligations. Should not the focus lie elsewhere, namely on this government's ability to create employment, that is to say that we are withdrawing people from cash aid at a rate which has rarely been seen; that employment is rising and unemployment is falling? This helps to create more opportunities for much more, rather than focusing on some individuals who, in relative terms, have earned an annual salary after 25 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142458	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142459	12 days. It's after 12 days. It's not after 25 days, it's 12 days. I'm not gonna fall for that football metaphor, also because it's gonna fake the discussion that's actually, like, the basics, the inequality in our society that's growing. It is not just because the directors of the largest companies have suddenly all become Messi in one way or another. It is also because some political decisions are being taken in here, as Mr. Anders Samuelsen wants to make several of them, which redistribute from the bottom of society to the top of society. We could focus somewhere else. For my sake, we can also focus on the 64,000 children who grow up in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142545	Sir. Anders Samuelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142547	But it will actually be a waste of discussion when we have to discuss whether it is 25 days or 12 days. There are probably also some who after 4 days have served what others earn in a whole year. The question is, do we give more people in this country an opportunity to live out their dreams? Get a job where they want to be in employment, get out of cash benefits; get some parents who actually have a job, instead of going home and being unemployed. Isn't that a far, far bigger and more important discussion? If, at the same time, this country attracts or can retain some managers who can help create the many additional jobs in cooperation with employees at work, is that not a good thing? Why is it a problem for my neighbor back in Horsens that he won't get as much richer as the director if he just gets something richer, for example. Because we're taking off the treasure at the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142632	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142633	It is a problem because that part of society, the top, takes a bigger and bigger part of the social cake. Tax and tax relief for billions in recent years, which has mainly benefited that part of society, is, of course, money that is lacking in our welfare system, with Mr. Anders Samuelsen's neighbor in Horsens. It is about how we allocate the resources of our society basically. The vast majority have seen cuts in welfare and security. Sir. Anders Samuelsen's neighbour in Horsens I do not know, but if we are talking about an average Dane, it is someone who must now see his retirement age rise and who must experience cuts in hospitals, and who also, if he or she loses his job, does not get the same security that one had in the past. That is why it is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142729	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142730	Then there will be another question about Europe. I almost foreshadowed it, too. One of the reasons why I keep asking about the relationship of the Enhedslisten with the European Community is that every time I get an answer, I still don't understand it. I simply do not understand it when it comes to an internationally oriented party such as the Enhedslisten, which otherwise also argues that together we must solve the major common challenges and problems that cross borders. One of the forums in which we can actually do this when it comes to climate when it comes to refugees is the European Community. So once again, what is the political argument for not supporting the European Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142817	The European Community is for me to see both bigger and wider than the European Union, if that is what is being talked about. That's one thing. The second is that international cooperation, the EU, the European Union, has a treaty basis which means that we in Denmark are often prevented from taking the lead when we want to protect ourselves from chemistry in toys or ensure proper conditions in Danish jobs, while the Treaty basis also means that consideration for the profits of larger companies is placed on the basis of consideration for the green transition, on the basis of proper employees' rights. That is what the problem is: not that it is international cooperation, but that it is not good enough international cooperation and that it is often going to promote the wrong interests. So we must use it as long as we have it for the good that we can now do, but we must also try to build something that is much better and that serves the common objectives of both Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142922	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115142923	It is still very unclear to me what the alternative to the European Community is. We can have that discussion at another time. But does not Mrs Pernille Skipper worry about nationalism that we see rolling out over Europe? We see Poland and Hungary trying to withdraw from the European Community and we see a brexit. There are currently enormously strong forces in which we withdraw to the nation state. Does it not worry Enhedslisten, and what is the solution to it? Less EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143002	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143003	That worries me insanely. I believe that the main reason why so many people turn against the European Union or inwardly towards the nation states is the increasing insecurity for ordinary workers in Europe. This is one of the reasons why the European Union has pushed through a reduction policy, a right-wing liberalist economic policy which has led to a reduction in welfare and has led to worse pensions, and which is also the reason why a great many people are rebelling. Unfortunately, too many people then fall into the arms of some people who tell them that it is the refugees or the immigrants who are to blame. Hopefully there will be more who will also go to those who will increase the equality and security of our society for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143056	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143059	Thank you. I just asked my partner next door if I had red cheeks, because I always feel that when I listen to Mrs Pernille Skipper, I get so red cheeks, and that's because the blood showers around my body. But I would like to ask, because as I heard the speech, it was a great valley of wailing, the whole of our society is about to collapse, everything is bad, and one thing is missing and the other and the third: Does Mrs Pernille Skipper really think that Denmark is so bad a society? Are we really feeling this bad? And what is poverty in Mrs Pernille Skipper's eyes? If tomorrow we all got twice what we have today, will there still be the same poverty, according to Mrs Pernille Skipper?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143141	As long as you don't get red ears, you'll be fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143146	I simply do not think I should comment on the introduction to that question. No, it's not that bad. I think that the Danish welfare model, the concept, the social model, that we are all working hard on everything we can, paying a relatively high tax and, in return, getting back a security, to say the least, is brilliant. One of the problems is that, unfortunately, these are people like Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who has been in power for far too long and who has turned down the security and who has given tax relief at the top, means that a lot of people are feeling the insecurity and are beginning to lose faith in the Danish welfare society. So no, hopefully we can turn the ship around before things go so wrong, and the jam gets wilder.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143234	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143236	Thank you. It's just because I think that Mrs. Pernille Skipper should try to listen to Enhedslistens talk through. When you talk about our society, it's always about the fact that everything is missing everywhere, and it's quite awful, and it's about to go wrong. What kind of a state we can look into if the Enhedslisten decided, am I a little more unclear about, because what kind of a society are we really going to have? Where's that money coming from? Is there a limit to the tax rate? I guess it's under 100 after all, but are there any other limits? Enhedslisten keeps talking everything down in Denmark, talking our public sector down because that's what Enhedslisten does when everything is always described as the pure jammer valley. Danish society is a good society, and we could not take it as a starting point and then do it better from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143322	I just don't buy it that if you just didn't mention the problems, they probably disappeared. That's basically it, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says, that if we just didn't talk the Danish society down, but talked it up, then it probably got better. We have to realise that it is indeed the reality that there is a birth that is being sent directly from the maternity ward and into the street with their baby baby. That's a problem. We have to realise that the green transition simply does not go at all fast enough if we want to leave a planet for our children and grandchildren. That's a problem. We could go on like that. There are problems that need to be resolved. We can't just pretend they're not there. Does that mean it can't be done? No, thank God it doesn't. Fortunately, we can get a different majority. Fortunately, we can make some other political decisions, because it does not come from above. It comes in here from Christiansborg, which is why we can do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143415	Thank you. Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143417	You're worried about the Conservative leader, but I can see that shirt and facial color match again. I also think that what was said did not sound so wrong, and I was actually pleased with a speech with a strong focus on inequality on the part of the Enhedslisten. Now, on behalf of the Speaker of the Danish Parliament, I understood that today's debate is also a way of replicating the Prime Minister's New Year's speech, and some of what was completely absent from it was the necessary and relevant criticism of a financial sector which, in the past year, has shown us that the social contract has been terminated for some with money laundering scandals and profit tax scandals. I dare say that this is a greed that we have not known in the past. Is this not really a very good example of Denmark's deserving of both a new political majority and a new political direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143510	I totally agree. It could almost be something I had said right after the Prime Minister had made his speech. I very much agree that it was striking that in the financial sector it was not mentioned at all in the Prime Minister's New Year speech, given how violent and subversive scandals we have seen recently. I am actually also pleased that the Socialists are again talking about inequality with the Enhedslisten. We also have some suggestions on how to make the inequality of social democracy even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143546	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. Mette Frederiksen I'm completely covered. ) Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143551	Thank you. Now that we are in the new post-election policy, etc., I just remembered that it was useful to get Mrs Pernille Skipper to tell the Folketing whether she still has the same view as has been put forward in the past, namely that, if it becomes the case that a parliamentary election ends up with the Enhedslisten, the Radicals and the Alternative being larger than the Social Democracy, it is one of the three parties that will fill the Prime Minister's office. There are, of course, two of the three parties who have taken part in the post, namely Mrs Pernille Skipper himself and then Mr Pernille Skipper himself. Uffe Elbæk. So is the announcement that came at some point last year still in effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143633	I would like to repeat what I remember saying, and that is that if the parties in the SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslist are together the size of or greater than the Social Democracy, it is not a natural law that the Prime Minister's post should fall to the Social Democracy, and in such a case we think it should be negotiated. Then there is no doubt that we will be happy to make a Prime Minister's candidate available. Basically, it is not the case that only two parties in here can sit in the Prime Minister's post, because it is actually possible to put other parties on that post.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143713	A quick regret from here, because of course it was a statement, because of course it was SF and not Mr. SF. Morten Østergaard's Radical Left. They are, of course, in the economic field quite a long way from the Enhedslisten and probably also in other areas, but you will have to fight about that yourself. It is so narrowed down to the fact that only the two parties with a Prime Minister's candidate are among the three parties, and the difference is then that Mr. Uffe Elbæk has said so more ultimately that if there is to be a shift, the other parties in the block can just point to Mr. Uffe Elbæk as Prime Minister. Then Mrs. Pernille Skipper is also prepared to withdraw her own candidacy and support Mr. Uffe Elbæk in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143754	It is up to both an election result and negotiations. It would be just speculative enough to offer it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143802	Then there is no further comment on Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115143822	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate so far, I think, in a very, very many areas. Basically, things are going well in Denmark. Unemployment is falling, employment is rising, more and more people are getting out of cash assistance, cars are becoming cheaper, it is easier to choose the free school that is getting more and more employees into the older sector. There is a great deal going well, but that does not mean that things cannot go better and that we do not have to prepare for some major challenges. If we look around the world, we can see that China has a power and influence that is only increasing and that we probably had not seen at all 10-15 years ago. The United States is heading in a direction that we do not like at home. Brexit, we don't know where to land if it lands. We have a Russia that is aggressive in the backyard. There are economies around the world that are roaring away. But the Danish economy does not actually do that. It's going well, it's going well, but it's not going well, and it should be, and it shouldn't be difficult for us in Denmark to make the reforms that need to be made so that we can get much further on the bus, so that Denmark can actually appear as a real winning nation in a global world. When I travel around the world and try to explain that as leader of the Liberal Alliance in the Danish Parliament, I am considered an ultraliberal because I want to lower the tax burden from around 49 percent. And down to 43 percent, people look at me and ask first, did you say 13 percent?? And then I say, no, 43 percent. Then they say, "Well, you're a socialist." It is only in Denmark that one can end up in a situation where a discussion about adjusting the tax burden from 48-49%. down to 43-44 per cent. It can lead to talking about the absolute poor farm and the abandonment of the public sector and about people not being able to go to the hospital and hospital. After all, this is a completely misguided discussion. I think that in this Parliament we have the same desires: that people should be able to get a good education, that people should be able to take care of their children, that they should be able to go to the hospital and get the absolutely best treatment. And there we will be presenting tomorrow a good proposal to move further along that path, and I say even further, because we are already a good place where we have achieved many results with a broad majority in the Folketing. We have also made many reforms in recent years. If you go back 15 years, or 20 years, we have actually ensured that labour supply has generally increased, but we have stalled on that agenda. I would like us to move from discussing with each other, perhaps when we come closer to having a parliamentary election campaign, whether we agree that we have these common objectives, namely a good education system, a health system, etc., to discussing more ways of achieving it. There I think we are talking too little about reforms in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144120	Thank you. Then there are some comments. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144124	Thanks for the post. I therefore agree that a great deal is going well and that now is the time to take decisions that will allow it to continue. And then, sir... Anders Samuelsen himself messes with the notion that he is more liberal than he really is. I think this may be spreading for many reasons and not necessarily just because of fiscal policy. What I'd like to go to is my relationship with our world. One of the places where it is symbolically marked is, after all, with border controls. Two million have now been spent. hours on the border That is why I would just like to ask: is it the policy of the Liberal Alliance that conditions on the Danish-German border should be normalized so that once again there is no border controls between Denmark and Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144212	If in the ideal world we got there that we had more control over the situation than we have, with people and those there are many of around the world who actually want to emigrate, to escape out of the countries where they are, and get better places, then it was possible. We have gained much better control; we have closed down the Balkan route; there are not as many people coming through Europe as there were in the past; we have made agreements with Turkey and so on. But that is not the situation we are in today, and that is why we must, among other things, do something about it. I would also like to send out the message that we have been sending out with the border controls that we have at the Danish-German border, and which I naturally wanted to do without. I think it is just as much a preventive measure. It sends a signal that we're protecting our border in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144253	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144254	It is obvious that it is symbolic policy; that is to say, it is clearly understood. That's 2 million. hours put in zero firearms, zero refugees. The question is whether the Liberal Alliance is in favour of free movement in the form we know it, where we and generations of politicians have worked before us to live in a region of peaceful coexistence where we could move freely across our borders. And it says border controls are a setback. That is why I am asking the leader of the Liberal Alliance here: is it the policy of the Liberal Alliance that we should stop border controls on the Danish-German border and normalise relations with our closest neighbour, our biggest trading partner, on that point? Is that the policy of the Liberal Alliance? That should be relatively easy to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144345	But it is actually also in the absolute sense easy to answer, and that is perhaps one of the reasons why I am no longer in the Radical Left, because I am not a naive liberal, I am a realistic liberal. And that means that I also have recognition that the world is not ideal. The world is not the place where we can just say that we can be indifferent to everything and that we just open the borders and have completely open borders. It should also be matched by closed boxes, otherwise you will become a magnet for the whole world. That is not the situation we are in, and that is why we must also have it, as Mr. Morten Østergaard then calls for symbolic measures. I think it is more than a symbolic signal. I think it helps send out a signal that makes people think further, also in relation to the other rules that we have adjusted here at home, in other words in relation to whether it is Denmark they are looking for. Then more can be helped in the neighbourhoods where they should be helped, rather than far away from where they have fled.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144435	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144438	I will skip to what I think the Prime Minister said there will be something about shortly or tomorrow, namely the whole of health. There is no doubt that there will be a rapid run out there, there is no doubt that there is a lack of money in the public sector, and it is not exactly the Liberal Alliance that has decided that more resources are being spent on the public sector or on health. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Anders Samuelsen: How much money will be spent on tax cuts up to 2025, and how many will be spent on health?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144509	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144511	Anyone can look up the 2025 plan that the Liberal Alliance has put forward in the past, where we have argued that money can be found by restructuring the public sector, which can ensure that anyone who goes to work does not have to pay taxes on the first DKK 7 000, they earn every month, that we can get rid of registration fees on cars, which, incidentally, could also make it much easier to settle in the outermost regions. It is quite essential that we have access to a proper means of transport where public transport is not and does not come, because I do not think that anyone can afford to put anyone in a position to have half the corporation tax, that we can get rid of the top tax. All those ambitions have left the Liberal Alliance, because it will help generate growth, create jobs, generate tax revenue for this country further, because there will be more good jobs in this country. The problem in this Parliament is that we talk as if there is only one cake to distribute and that it has the size it has. Our task is to get the cake to grow, put some ingredients into that makes there more to distribute. Then other parties can fight over where on earth they want to spend the money in the public sector, but there will be more to it (President: yes, thank you!) if you do the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144610	Thank you. Please keep to your speaking time. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144615	Thank you. Now I think I remember that the 2025 plan of the Liberal Alliance is back from 2015, and things have actually happened in the Danish economy since then, which is both going in one direction and the other. Anders Samuelsen has found out and therefore there are changed conditions in relation to implementing the plan. So if sir... Anders Samuelsen says that all tax elements of the 2025 plan will be implemented, there will be elements in the public sector that need to be further cut away because you do not have the same room for manoeuvre as you used to have. Well, then, sir. Anders Samuelsen very firmly in the meat and says that everything in the 2025 plan must be implemented, all the tax cuts, and that we are ready to fire additional people in the public sector to live up to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144658	But there I am so fortunate that I can start from the previous government, which had a debureaucratisation commission, which produced a report which showed that things can be made more efficient and smarter in the public sector for what amounts to about 10%. Those are not my figures; it is the previous government, that is, the one of which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was a member, who presented that report. So if you just start from it, you can do things a little smarter in the public sector and it's not a question of people running faster, it's also a question of getting better at using new technology and getting it introduced at the right pace. It is not the case that you have to whip off faster when you have to do hip surgery than you did in the past, even if things are going much stronger today. That's because you're one of them. use new technology better. All those things we need, we should not just think that if there is one less person in the public sector, it is certain because the public sector is falling apart. It could also be because people organise themselves smarter and there has been a demand for that workforce in the private sector instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144749	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144751	My question is about the climate, perhaps not surprising. One of the only parties I have been unsure about standing up for climate change to be man-made is the Liberal Alliance. It is, of course, because there have been politicians from the Liberal Alliance who have questioned that fact. That is why I am really, really happy to make this clear now: is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that climate change is uniquely man-made?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144827	1) Climate change exists. 2) I am also absolutely convinced that man has an effect on climate change. And then comes: 3) What do we do about it? That's what's interesting. Is it a question of going on a journey less abroad, taking care to put extra charges on flights so that the poor cannot get out to fly, and so only the wealthy can get out to fly? Or is it that we, among other things. is investing, as this government is doing in the years to come, in more research, so that we can come up with new technologies that can make the momentum that will enable us to save the climate? I believe in the last part and will spend more energy on it than discussing whether to go from eating seven steaks or five steaks a week to eating four steaks a week. It will not save the climate that we have a common interest in protecting, because there will be more inhabitants in the world who come up into the middle class and want the same conditions as Mr. Uffe Elbæk lives below.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144921	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144923	I am actually pleased that Anders Samuelsen says quite clearly that climate change is man-made, and I also hear that the Liberal Alliance says that we have a problem that we have to solve, that it is a bottom-up task. We can quickly spend all the time discussing what to do and I think we have a lot of things to do, among other things. have developed green technologies too, but can the leader of the Liberal Alliance explain to me why it was more expensive to buy electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115144956	Yeah, I can explain that easily. It was because there was no majority in favour of funding that we could keep taxes down. After all, we have put forward a plan which guarantees zero taxes on cars, and that includes electric cars. I would like to start by making sure that there are no charges on electric cars in the long run. I'd like that. But the question is, in particular, whether the red parties are willing to pay the price, because it is not free of charge. The problem with green ambitions is that it costs, and then we are back at Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's discussion about who it is that there should be fewer in the public sector, because it costs. There is a lack of tax revenue if everyone drives around a zero-tax electric car. You can ask Norway if it doesn't cost. It does. Should we sit around the table and find that money? We're ready for it; we've got the money. The question is whether the red parties have the money or whether they only have the rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145038	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145042	I am actually just thinking of asking some very specific questions when Mr. Anders Samuelsen says that further reforms are needed so that we can get a little closer. I have two specific questions: 1) Are there services to be reduced? No, let's just keep it there. Are there any benefits to be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145104	In other words, I have no doubt that in some places the benefits could be adjusted. We have, of course, had these poverty discussions in Denmark, and there are some who have come a lot behind because they have not really been aware of what people are actually getting paid, what they actually have in available amounts. But that's not where my ambitions go. That's not what stands first for me. I will pick the light fruits first, which is a better organisation of the public sector, and use some of the funds saved there to make sure that we get the structures for our business that make it much more attractive to create jobs in Denmark and maintain jobs in Denmark and not move them out of Denmark, and also make it easier for people to take a not so well paid job by facilitating the tax significantly at the bottom, so no one should pay tax on the first DKK 7,000 they earn. I'm gonna put a lot of energy into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145153	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145155	So it is not a matter of reducing benefits, no shortening of the benefit period and no deterioration in the early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145204	If it were up to me to take the very specific question that is asked here in the end I would like to abolish the rest of the early retirement tomorrow. That's for sure. It has also turned out that this is a good idea. Now the Danes are almost completely enthusiastic about working beyond the retirement age, among other things. because we are involved in this government with the policy we are pursuing, that more jobs will be created in the private sector. And when those jobs are there, people want them too. It is like those who are extremely out there in the labour market who get into employment when we create the right framework. But the problem is that there are some parties, among others. Mrs Mette Frederiksens, who is working against it when we do so, for example. by lowering the registration fee, which helps generate more jobs. Then you call it a Ferrari reform, and when it is adopted, it is a little harder to hear whether you are going to vote on raising the registration fee again. Perhaps it would be nice to have the information read later.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145251	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145253	Thank you. I just noticed that sir... Anders Samuelsen said something that I would like to welcome, and I will not let that chance slip away anyway, because our parties have had some challenges from time to time over the last few years. But it was this thing about being naive or realistic liberal, where Mr. Anders Samuelsen was told that Mr. Morten Østergaard is a naive liberal. I fully agree with that, but then got the opposite, namely as being a realistic liberal. A realistic liberal is a person who is in favour of border controls being allowed. And as DFs, I think that is really common sense, and it is with great pleasure that I note that this is a realistic approach to things. I fully agree with that, because of course it matters. This border control is the normal situation. We had until then, of course, it was 2001 when border controls were removed, which had been removed until three years ago, when border controls were then reinstated. The people who stand guarding our border and checking people who come in make a great and good and positive effort. They should not be demeaned in the way that happened here earlier that they alone are the result of symbolism policy. They are doing a good job, and we should be pleased about that. I would like to welcome the fact that Mr. Anders Samuelsen is in on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145414	Well, it is part of a comprehensive package, the immigration policy that we currently have and which has helped to ensure that we no longer see 15,000 people coming into Denmark, as we saw in 2015. We are down to an historically low number, and we should be pleased about that together. Then you can discuss which of the elements has the greatest effect, and it must also be linked to the international agreements we make, for example. with Turkey. But I think we should welcome, among other things. this result, and at the same time I will also sign the other way and enjoy the things we have actually done together, the government and the Danish People's Party, among other things. tax relief for over 21 billion. kr. for the benefit and happiness of Danish citizens and companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145451	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145454	Now the border controls that we now have are approved, I think, until 12 May or something similar later this year. What could be exciting now is that now is Mr. Anders Samuelsen both party leader for the Liberal Alliance, but of course also Minister for Foreign Affairs, and what is the forecast that border controls will continue after 12 May? We in the Danish People's Party believe that it should be absolutely clear to the Danish people that, of course, border controls continue and that a Commissioner cannot come here from Brussels and say to the Danish people that we must no longer have border controls. But there is something here that we need to be aware of, and what is Mr. Anders Samuelsen's views on the fact that the Commission can then come one day with the current set of rules and say: now you have to take down border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145543	I believe that we have such good arguments on our hands that if we get there that we think it should be extended, then I also believe that it will succeed, not just because there is one realistic liberal foreign minister, but there are a great many realistic politicians in Europe at all, who of course also look at how the situation is in general and how far we have come in relation to the challenges we have with people who are going around the world. This is happening at the same time as there is something we must rejoice about, namely that more and more people are being lifted out of absolute poverty in the world and are going up through the middle class. But one of the first things that happens in that movement is that people can get moving and have an ambition to go somewhere else until the day we, among other things, get there. through good foreign policy, international commitment, etc. helps to ensure that there are growth opportunities where they come from, that there is a perspective, so you want to stay in the country where you originally come from. That is the goal. And when we get there, maybe one day the need for border controls will fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145644	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115145658	Thank you. One of the things that makes me most hopeful on behalf of the future is that the green transition has really begun to move into the rooms, into the jobs and into the city councils. Every day, citizens, local politicians and businesses take responsibility, not just with words, but with concrete green action. Unfortunately, the same level of ambition is lacking for serious, radical climate action here in Christiansborg, because, despite the alarming reports of science and despite the people's desire for much greater climate ambitions, we have unfortunately seen how a broad political majority in this period of government has adopted several agreements that directly weaken the green transition. Just think of tax rebates for oil companies, the abolition of the PRS tax, a new round of supply in the North Sea and electric cars, which suddenly had to be made more expensive. The most absurd thing is that all these agreements are made at a time when the need for ambitious climate action has never been greater. So while I welcome the fact that several people in this Chamber are again talking about strengthening the green transition, I still miss action behind the very beautiful wordings. That is the position of the alternative. But it is also the position of the United Nations which, at the climate conference in Poland, concluded that we, all of us, must increase our ambitions fivefold if we are to hope to keep the temperature rises below 1.5 degrees. If we are to do so, and we must do so, we will not avoid a dispute with the way we understand growth today. It is a showdown of our eternal pursuit of material growth and consumption that pushes both the globe and the individual human being. In short, the economy must work for us and we must not work for it. I am well aware that it will be a great task to transform Denmark into a sustainable society. This does not change the fact that it is a bottom-up task, but it is also a task that offers plenty of opportunities to create an even better and even more interesting society. We would like to seize that opportunity in the alternative. In our government programme we have therefore given our bid on how Denmark can become a landmark green, creative and humanistic society. Just a few examples: we propose the creation of a new green superministerium to take over the prime role of the Ministry of Finance; the conversion of agriculture to 100%. organic farming; public transport must be green and 30% green. cheaper for citizens; 30 hours of working week; we must unleash the public sector; and, of course, we must support our green entrepreneurs, green research and our green business. All this and much more we have in our government programme, and it is with the clear aim of ensuring that we leave a healthy planet to our children and grandchildren and all the lives, animals and plants that will inherit the Earth after us. A living, rich, diverse planet inhabited by people who live rich, diverse and meaningful lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150021	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150024	I noted here at the beginning of January that Mr. Uffe Elbæk told one of the country's newspapers that there is no difference between red and blue. This isn't the first time, sir. Uffe Elbæk has said it, but I think it might be a little nice to find out what could make the difference. If we could now agree on a 60 per cent climate bill in the red block. CO 2 Uffe Elbæk then maintain that there is no difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150057	What I said in the interview in question was that there was little difference between the Social Democracy and the Left, not necessarily between the Red Block and the Blue Block. At the same time I had an extra little nuance of it and said that there would of course be a difference between Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister, or Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Of course there would be. But that is not our starting point. Our starting point is that we point to ourselves, and we do, because there are no other parties in this Parliament that have climate change as the most important area. In addition, we think that it is too democratic if there are only two options to put the cross when it comes to who is going to be Denmark's prime minister. To the specific question that is being asked here, I would like to say that I am always ready for new good, ambitious green proposals. Let's discuss it when we get that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150148	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150149	After all, we are faced with a situation in which it will take 90 mandates to become Prime Minister in Denmark, and there it seems that there are at least two immediate options, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mrs Mette Frederiksen. For me, climate is absolutely crucial, including in the choice between Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mrs Mette Frederiksen. That's why I'm gonna ask you, sir. Uffe Elbæk does not see that there is a difference between the green policy that is possible on one side of the House and the green policy that is possible on the other side of the Chamber. So this is about politics, and if we want the green agenda the best, then we might have some options in the red block that is not in the blue block.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150238	I think that everyone who wants a serious green transformation of Denmark should work together, and we will of course do so in the coming period of parliament. All good suggestions that push Denmark in a greener direction, we will then support on all leads and edges. Now I'm looking down at the bench down here. I can see that now Mrs Mette Frederiksen has just pulled a tooth down, but before that Mrs Mette Frederiksen sat in the front row with two other good colleagues, Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Lars Løkke Rasmussen. And to the whole concern about the question of whether a new government can be formed, I would say that it can be done. I can see three good colleagues who, far along the way, think the same on some crucial issues. So I'm not worried about whether a government can be formed after an election. The question is what kind of government is it and what kind of Denmark we are going to see in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150331	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150341	Thank you. I think it is absolutely crucial that we create a basis for a much more offensive policy for green conversion in Denmark. And we have seen what happens to priorities. Well, sir. Uffe Elbæk praised the Prime Minister's New Year's speech and I take full part in that praise and did so on the day, including I noted that the Prime Minister said that the greatest challenge was the climate at all. And then you look at the Finance Act that was made, and then you think, 'It's a shame they didn't get to talk about it on that occasion, 'cause maybe you wouldn't have spent 759 million. kr. On an island in Stege Bay, you might have exempted electric cars from taxes instead. That is the priority given to us. But when we then praise the Prime Minister's New Year's speech, it also tells us that it is because it is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who has brought him to power. And that's why I just want to ask sir. Uffe Elbæk: Can you support a government carried by the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150435	Well the interesting thing is that we have said over and over again that we will not support another government, that is, a Lars Løkke Rasmussen government or a Mette Frederiksen government. We will not prevent anyone from forming a government, but we will not act as a parliamentary basis for it. And we certainly do not if it is supported by the Danish People's Party. Well, we have made our political analysis of what it takes to break up the blocks in Denmark, and that is what we advocate. We want a green block. We want to break that we only have red and blue blocks. We want a green block, and that is our political project, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150514	Well, we agree on the need to break with block policy, not least if we are to set a new direction for Denmark, not least in the green area. Of course, what is crucial is that it should be a block that was not possible to get around, otherwise the others will be able to pursue that policy, just as we see year after year. In this way we share the analysis that some of the differences are at least blurred and interest is concentrated on some other things. That is why my appeal is simply that you do not resign your mandates, but also if you cannot get the first wish to become Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150546	It is clear that we have made our strategic reflections on how to get the most policy through, including in a future parliamentary term. Our conclusion, as I said, is that we are going after the Prime Minister's Office with the pondus we can now perform. And if we do not succeed, we will set our mandates free, and then, of course, we will have the discussions with those who may have to form a government, and then we will have to see how far we get. Well, it is very interesting to look at what is happening in Sweden at the moment. And I think we are going to see a period of time now when the normal political rules of play are going to look different I hope so. Whether this happens at this election or at the next election will show up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150628	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150631	Thank you. And it's concentrated a little around the same thing, for Mr. Uffe Elbæk says in here on various occasions that he is really prepared to go out of the plank, that is to say, stand firm to the view that the alternative is with the Prime Minister's candidate, and if you cannot get support for it, everything is uncertain. And it is now referred to Sweden, where they are now negotiating intergovernmental cooperation in the fourth month. Germany could also be referred to, which took it probably six months before a government could be formed as in some places we should look at and where it might be a good way to do so. How's sir? Uffe Elbæk saw it that it is not taken seriously around? Well, when you see those measurements that are made by who backs one up and the other up and something like that, the alternative is just talked to as part of a so-called red block. It is as if it does not sit at all in the way things are described and characterized in politics. How's sir? Uffe Elbæk it with that anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150726	But it is clear that all small signals that it is being taken seriously are of course noticed. In other words, when we hear commentators who say the so-called blue block, and we also see that there is still a little green strip in the visualization, the graphic image, on TV and something like that, we will of course be happy. But we would very much like it to be perfectly clear to everyone that we actually mean it. But I think there has been a period when colleagues, as well as journalists and commentators, have said: Ah, is it not just some sort of political stunt? Is there really a thoughtful strategic consideration behind this? Is there a political project behind this? And there is. After all, I cannot help but stress it over and over again, and I hope that it will be very clear to the public. Again, I would like to stress that, of course, we will be working deeply parliamentaryally seriously in a new Parliament, regardless of which government there is. However, as I said, no one can count on us to support a given government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150834	Yeah, but in relation to the fact that it's being taken as just in quotation marks, it's a stunt, like sir. Uffe Elbæk says, can it then be that it got the character of such an attempt to get its mark? That was at least the way it was read, too, that Enhedslisten's Mrs Pernille Skipper subsequently hurried to report her candidature to the PM post. It may well be that some people have thought that now it is just such a race to say that you are a prime minister candidate, because then you can come on the front page of the newspaper, or you can come on the TV newspaper at night and show that you have now become a prime minister candidate, and then you are mentioned around. Well, can it be something that doesn't mean it's taken seriously? Sir. Uffe Elbæk was the first to take the step. He also recommended that all of us jump out as prime minister candidates shortly after he had done so himself. So it could get a little character that it's actually just because we're gonna have a game about it all, and that it's all kind of a game, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115150930-2	So, I think there are many who have also looked at the Danish People's Party and asked: do they actually play? So, when is it that Kristian Thulesen Dahl takes political responsibility and says that he is going to be prime minister when you are actually the largest bourgeois party? There are a lot of people out there who have such considerations. I think that when you in the Danish People's Party have your strategy, it is because it is well thought out. You have had a long timeline where you have been working to reach the position you have today. The alternative does the same, and I hope that our government basis has also been read. There was great respect for the fact that we had actually presented a government basis in which we said how we would rule the country, how we would spend the money, how we would give priority to 80 billion. kr. for green conversion. So, we've gone over all the ministerial areas and asked: what would Slotsholmen look like if we had the key to the Prime Minister's Office? I think this is just about time, just like it was about time before the Danish People's Party got to where you are today and congratulations on it. I can disagree entirely politically, but respect for a political project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151037	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. And please speak in third person, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151043	Some time ago the negotiations on electric cars broke down because a united opposition was of the opinion that the government's plans in this area were all too unambitious. Thinks sir. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. As far as electric cars are concerned? Thinks sir. Uffe Elbæk, that our proposal for a reform of self-government with much more confidence in public employees will create a more dynamic public sector, where again it will be fun and good to be a nurse? Thinks sir. Uffe Elbæk, that it would be good to reduce inequality in this society, for example. Following on from the inequality which the Social Democratic Party has put forward? Thinks sir. Uffe Elbæk, that it matters to our democracy that we do not sell Radius as proposed by Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen? And I think Mr. Uffe Elbæk, that it matters whether you have a government in Denmark that prioritises welfare rather than tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151159	These are rhetorical questions, and I want to say yes, yes and yes again. Well, of course it does. In a large number of areas, I am more in agreement with the positions adopted by the Social Democrats. But that is also the case, and it is where the political chain is jumping off for us that we can see that the Social Democrats are doing away with what might be called the neoliberal economy, or at least are interested in finding out how to do away with inequality. There are good reports, including the Radius case, which we have seen here over the weekend. But the problem is that you solve a problem, and then you create a new one. Because what Mrs Mette Frederiksen is not just talking about in this is all that we disagree about. In other words, we strongly disagree with the policy of refugees and integration pursued by the Social Democrats. So I respect the fact that you solve a problem, but it's too bad that you create a new one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151244	Well, the disagreement in the field of foreigners is quite well known. That's right. And we do not agree on that point. But now my question was about much of what I, as a Socialist, also think is important. Because just as important as I think it is to pursue a policy of aliens, which in my view is the right one, is just as important as the green transition. It is equally important that we have a welfare society where we take proper care of each other. It is equally important that our talented public servants are met by trust rather than control. It is equally important that we combat the growing inequality. It is equally important that we deal with what kind of democracy we want to be. That is why I am thinking, with the many yes that were actually said from the platform, that what remains is a disagreement in the area of foreigners, but at the same time a commitment that a new political majority and a social democratic prime minister will, with the alternative's eyes, mean improvements for welfare, improvements for equality, improvements for confidence, improvements for democracy and improvements for climate and environment. And that's actually really good and positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151350-2	So it would be nice to end that, wouldn't it? But I do not, because yes, it would be good for equality, it would be good for welfare, but we have some citizens who are deeply marginalised in this society. And we know who's the most marginalized. We had the discussion about children at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark. Why does the Prime Minister's candidate for Social Democracy not go out and say: what we see is completely unacceptable? Why do we not hear a Prime Minister's candidate for the Social Democratic Party saying: we will end the integration benefit and the cash aid ceiling on the first day I am on duty? One is word, another is action. So all good things where we can agree, I'll say yes to. And that's also why I say yes, yes. However, the problem is that, as I said, there are some areas where we are ambitious in a different place and where we have political disagreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151446	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151500	I guess it's not too late to wish you a happy New Year, even though we've come in a little in January. And then it's obvious to skate back to 2018, as many people have done. I have to say that my experience is that it is true in symbol legislation. We got the law of handshake and the burka ban. Once again, we had discussions about meatball vang in the day institutions, and then, like the raisin in the sausage end, we got this three-quarter billion-dollar project on the island of Lindholm. That is why we cannot help but ask ourselves: what will be next? If the same parties are in government and under the influence of the Danish People's Party, what will be the next thing you come up with in the string of non-solutions to symbolism if there is to be another budget law? But it's a new year, and then you have to be a little optimistic. It is also an election year, which is why one might as well ask oneself: What can we actually do in 2019 if we now set out to find real solutions to real problems instead of Christiansborg being driven around in the chain of symbol politics? We can make integration work or we can just do what the government and the Danish People's Party have done: keep blaming refugees and immigrants for all the problems that are and then come up with all these symbolic solutions. We can also create a well-being where there are actually enough hands for good care in the hospital and a safe old age when we get old or spend hundreds of millions on these projects like Lindholm most recently. Should we invest more in our children and give more people an upbringing that we can be proud of, or should we continue to cut education and take away from those who have the least in Danish society? Are we going to solve the major common problems such as climate change, refugee flows, large banks that are a fraud, IT giants that do not pay their taxes? Are we going to resolve this together in Europe, or are we going to continue to let the border barriers dominate and turn our backs on joint cooperation where we really have the opportunity to influence the world's course and where the problems are the most serious? I would insist that we opt for the optimism rather than the more pessimistic attitude that we choose to say what, if we set out to do so, rather than say what will be next. We could decide that 2019 is the year in which we say: Now we want to make the best of the good times for the benefit of those who are harder than ourselves, and for those who are coming after ourselves. It could be a direction of work for the year we are doing. We could loop border controls and the island of Lindholm and use the money to provide police for the close work that could limit the food chain to the gangs. We could change the taxes so we get a hundred percent. Green car park. We could remodel a third of all fields so that our agriculture could make the green success of the energy sector a reality. There are so many things we could do because we are actually living in good times if we want to take a stand that we are constantly dragging down to the lowest common denominator and to symbolism policy. And I have no doubt that it can be done. This will probably require a parliamentary election, and it will require that we have a Parliament that is willing to cooperate on the right solutions to the real problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151822	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151825	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard, for the speech. I was given the idea that every time we do something that the Radical Left disagrees with, it is always accused of being symbolic politics. It's funny that everything Radicals are opposed to is symbol politics but is that it? - Sir... Morten Østergaard does not confirm that we can, for that matter, go all the way back to the beginning of the 1990s, I believe that every time the Radical Left has had a decisive influence on Danish politics, the number of asylum seekers to Denmark has increased and increased, so that the number of people seeking asylum in Denmark, and people who come here as a family couple, has increased and increased, while every time DF has had a decisive influence in Danish politics, has fallen year by year? - Sir... Morten Østergaard does not confirm that this is the overall picture that you get when you look at the 1990s, at the 00s, at 2011-2015, when Radicals again had decisive influence, and now again at 2015-2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115151921	No. I mean, the time in modern Danish history, when there was a lot more, was after the general election in 2015, when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had gone to the polls to want a total asylum freeze; then it rushed in. And we can give Radical Left responsibility for a great deal, but not for the greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II, namely the civil war in Syria. The Prime Minister also says gladly and gladly that there have not been so few asylum seekers since 2007. In other words, should we go back to the immigration policy of 2007, because what we had at that time was apparently the best? In other words, just during this period we have heard that 100 restrictions have been made on foreign policy, and it has been celebrated with cake, and I do not know, but apparently everything was better ten years ago. That's why it's bullshit. What this is about is that when there are many refugees in the world, more will come to Europe. And if we work together to ensure that people do not have to flee to live, then there will also be fewer refugees. But we can only do that when we reach out to other countries. It's not solved with a border boom. Not a single refugee has been stopped as a result of border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152023	The questioner for his second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152025	Well, I just wanted to say that it's not factually correct, sir. Morten Østergaard. It is of course the case that during the periods when DF has decisive influence, the number of asylum seekers and family members in Denmark falls in relation to the periods when the Radical Left has a decisive influence on Danish politics. That is why I say that we can disagree politically and stand for two very different political directions. • The Radical Left wants to relax the policy of foreigners while we want to tighten the policy of foreigners; the Radical Left accepts that more people are coming to Denmark and seeking asylum and family reunification, while we want to see the figure reduced, but that is not symbolic policy. It is quite real, hardcore political business that we mean something different and put it through. So there is, of course, a decisive difference between whether the Radical Left has a decisive influence on a majority in here or whether the Danish People's Party has it. And instead of neglecting it and turning it into something symbolically political, I just say: No, it is not symbol politics; it is something that has a real effect, in terms of how Denmark stands in 20, 50, 100 years; in terms of what it is for a society our children and grandchildren grow up in. This should also be accepted radically instead of turning the things we are doing into purely symbolic measures, which by their very nature are expressions of something that does not have an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152137	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152137-2	But it may be the biggest strawman in Danish politics. I have no wish that there are many refugees in the world. I have no wish for many refugees to come to Denmark. I hope that we will replace the policy of symbols with some real solutions, both when it comes to integration in Denmark, which fortunately on long stretches goes better, and about cross-border crime, that is, that we do not bind the police resources to something that does not work, but instead join us fully in European cooperation on it. I have a desire that we engage with other countries so that it does not become a race against the bottom, in terms of how to treat asylum seekers, but that we actually get a real solution like the European Union's agreement with Turkey, which requires a certain amount of solidarity, a solidarity that the Danish People's Party does not have with other countries. That is why it is really a disagreement, but it is a prioritising disagreement. When the Danish People's Party here in Parliament on 13 December, I think, wrote a proposal for adoption boasting that 650 million had been set aside. kr. to improve the conditions for the elderly in the last financial law, it is in contrast to 759 million. DKK, which is spent on the Lindholm project. Wouldn't the elderly have needed them too?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152246	Thank you. We continue in the series of questions, and the next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152252	Thanks for a good speech. In fact, I think there were many things on which the SF and the Radical Left can cooperate, as Mr. Morten Østergaard set out in his speech on climate, education and much more. There is one area that worries me very much and that I think many Danes are also quite concerned about, and where I really would like Mr. Morten Østergaard so slightly clarifies his position: For the next few years we will see many who are worn out but cannot retire. They do not have the opportunity to go on early retirement because the Radical Left, together with the bourgeois bloc in 2010-11, chose to make an early retirement reform that has made it harder for people to get on early retirement. Now we are in a situation where the worn out do not disappear, but end up in the cash aid system and end up being sick. What is the solution on the part of the Radical Left when it comes to dealing with the worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152344	Please respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152345	Thank you very much for the question. I do not think that the SF or the Social Democratic Party are going to vote to reinstate the early retirement pension, and that is why it is a quite relevant question Our proposal is what we have been inspired by the trade union movement, namely to extend access to the senior early retirement pension, so that, in fact, you can also leave the labour market earlier than you can go on early retirement today. If you are unable to do the work you have been doing, you must be able to go to a senior early retirement pension five years before the retirement age, no matter what has worn you out and how long you have had that job.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152422	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, on a second point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152424	But we just introduced a senior pre-retirement pension together. The problem is that there are only approx. 800-900 people who have even been given the opportunity to take advantage of the senior early retirement pension because it ends up acting as a real early retirement scheme. So there are many people who experience that the foundations of their safe old age have really disappeared. The Radical Left has on several occasions expressed itself in favour of a higher retirement age; we could easily do so, that is no problem. But there are still people who are unable to do so, and the differentiation and inequality in relation to retirement age is increasing in these years. Does the Radical Left really believe that a senior early retirement scheme is the answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152505	The senior early retirement pension was introduced in connection with the early retirement agreement, so I guess SF wasn't part of it, but I don't want it to take us apart. We got into government, and then we passed the bill. But what is the point is essentially the same from the outset, namely that the senior early retirement pension we now have did not work as expected. That is why I am saying that up to five years before the age of retirement, in other words earlier than today, you can go on early retirement for those who have retained the right to do so, you must be able to leave the labour market and go on a senior early retirement pension if you are unable to do the job you have without further work tests. That's our bid, that's a concrete offer. You are welcome to come with others. I am just saying that it is crucial to me that it is about whether you can do a job, and not about how long you have had a job that you can no longer take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152552	Thank you. Then I go to the next questioner, who is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152557	Thank you. I have no doubt that Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left profess to be globalists, a great deal can be done internationally, and I agree with that very much. However, when the question comes to foreign policy, it can be seen that in Radicals there is a bit of an approach to it that it is such a little something that we have not understood that it is a little populist and one, the other and the third. Recognizes Mr. Morten Østergaard is not that deep within the Danish population there is a concern about what kind of Denmark we see in 10, 20, 30 years, and that we therefore have to take a number of initiatives, that we have to deal with the ghetto formations that exist in Denmark? Because we have to. We cannot simply dismiss it and say that these are such things that are not real problems and that we have always done it wrong. It's about real people's lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152653	I am so grateful to you for your concern. I also recognise the concern of those living in vulnerable residential areas for what conditions their children will have if we do not put an end to the gangs if we do not stop the food chain. I think it is a skewed priority when you think it is more important to have policemen who spend tens of thousands of hours at the Danish-German border instead of doing outreach and preventive work so that young people do not get hurt. It's a priority, and even if you're a minister of justice, you can only send the cops one place at a time. The next is that I want real solutions that can provide people with real security, but the solutions presented do not create security; when we get more poor people in Denmark with integration benefits, it does not create more security; it does not create more security in the Kalvehave, that you now move the problem from one place to another in the country. That is why we need real solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152748	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152750	But it creates more security that we are clear about our values: if you want to be in Denmark, under what conditions are you here? Then it is also the case that the vast majority, who can of course find a way to behave properly, will not be slashed with those who cannot find out. But now that we have challenges, for example. Some vulnerable housing areas are of no use if we then also come up with a proposal for our action in a ghetto package or put forward a plan to combat juvenile delinquency, where we are actually putting a lot of effort into prevention when the Radical Left rejects it, because it is too tough an approach to it. We can't just talk our way out of these problems, we have to deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152837	But now the Minister for Justice asked me if I was listening to people's concerns, and there I might want to play back and say that perhaps the government should listen a little to the people who know what they're dealing with. None of the institutions that are to stand with young people of up to 10 years of age, which are now to be sent to institutions where conditions are to be as close as possible to prisons, recommend measures. Could we not instead try to solve it in real terms? The police do not recommend border controls to solve cross-border crime problems. Well, why can't we listen a little to the professionals? Because then the chance to find real solutions is far, far greater. That's what I'm appealing to. What people are experiencing is that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's value is adapted to what the Danish People's Party requires in order to continue in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152925	Thank you. The last thing I have noted on brief remarks is Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115152930	The reason I also have a question was actually the Conservative leader's question to Mr. Morten Østergaard. Because we see time and time again, including here in the Folketing, that we have good professionals who come up with facts that come with professional experience that say that this is the way we should go, and then we see time and again political colleagues from other parties who say that it may be that professionals say it, but I mean something else. The question is what kind of a slip has happened in relation to not taking our talented people, our professionals, seriously. Whether it is sociologists, criminologists or the Ombudsman makes clear recommendations, within the last 3, 4, 5 years there has been a slippage in which we say that it may be that they say it, but I mean something else. Why? Did Mr. Morten Østergaard a bid for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153031	It is because in these sacred halls it has just become such that reality has very difficult to penetrate. Now we have discussed health policy a great deal today, and it is quite clear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wants the regions closed down. He has wanted that for many years, and then it is wrapped in many fine words. But none of them are concerned, for example. medical patients who go in and out of hospitals, or psychiatric patients with the most complicated conditions that point to this and say: it is because we have something called regions. That is why I really think that some of the things we need to fight about are the idea that the best solutions will come from in here if you lock yourself in a completely peaceful room next to the finance minister's office, the Struensee Room, that is, that the best ideas arise in there, instead of picking them up out there in reality, where the shoe prints.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153119	Does the author wish to speak on the second point? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153120	That is a completely different question, and it may well be that Mr. Morten Østergaard will not answer it because it is too strange. But we are both in the opposition and we are both getting the question: are you part of the red block? And I hear over and over again, sir. Morten Østergaard say: No, I am not part of the red bloc; I am part of the opposition. So my question actually follows on from some of what I said on the platform myself, that is, about the need to break up the blocks and perhaps also help define a new green block, and I am just curious about where Radicals stand in it. Because if the Radical Left doesn't want to be in the blue block and you don't want to be in the red block, where do you stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153211	We want and have always stood up for a fight with the blocs and a desire to be able to cooperate broadly in the Folketing. That is why it is such a bit of a strawman that we are sometimes met with, that is, that there should be a desire that there are some with whom we cannot cooperate. We would like to cooperate with everyone, but we do have some political disagreements, and I think that Mr. Uffe Elbæk and I agree that the central dividing line may in fact not be who ends up in the Prime Minister's Office, but who brings the next government to power, and there we have seen the matter in relation to what happens when it is the Danish People's Party. At any rate, I believe that our shared experience is that the major challenges remain unsolved while the money is spent on everything else. That is what we are fighting for, and that is where we are going to face up to it without prejudice in the hope of having a break with that block policy, so that we can pursue a policy that addresses the real problems and that we find proper solutions to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153302	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. There are no more brief comments. So we move on to the next party leader and I give the floor to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153315	Thank you. More older people are coming, and we live longer, and that's really good. However, this also means that we need to spend more money, both in the area of health and in the area of the elderly, in the years to come, if offers to the sick and the elderly are not to be reduced. That is why it is now time to ensure that we develop health care so that it can keep up. Not only must we draw up new structures, but more money must accompany them. The employees can't run faster than they do today. I know that health workers struggle every day to provide patients with the best possible treatment and care, but the crucial thing for our welfare society is that hospitals and care for the elderly have enough staff. That is why it is also worrying when the government has little ambition to ensure that there is enough money to get enough staff in our health care. The government's objective is that public consumption should only increase by 0.3 per cent. a year, and that is not at all enough to keep up with the needs that are needed if more people are to be helped. The SF therefore proposes to secure 10,000 more health workers up to 2025 than the government's policy suggests. Of course it is not free, but we have the money in the room up to 2025 if they are not squandered on tax cuts, and my priority is quite clear: I would rather have more sosu'ers and nurses than tax cuts. I believe that we must give priority to our welfare and to the quality of our hospitals. It is our responsibility that employees can keep up and that everyone gets good treatment. We must not put that at risk. At the same time, we will take a number of important steps to phase out user payments in health. I know that will not be done in one parliamentary term, but that is why we propose from the SF to start just as slowly by moving the age limit for free dental care from 18 years up to 25 years and spreading the system of free psychological assistance that SF has fortunately got through in many municipalities. The time has therefore come to abandon the dream and the imagination of, and unfortunately also the implementation of, tax reliefs. The time has come to invest in each other, in the community, in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153525	Thank you. It was a nice and good observance of time. Thank you. So far, there are three inscribed, and the first one is Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153534	I have far along the way very much respect for SF's green work up for many, many years. If there is a party that has really stood up for the green agenda, it is actually SF, and therefore I also wonder what the rationale was for SF when it was decided to join the Nordsø settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153605	Here you go to the speaker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153606	SF's desire to be part of the North Sea Oil Agreement was to ensure that we had a good change in relation to the Tyra field. Because the difference was whether to dump the field or whether to renovate the field. We became part of the agreement to say that we must renovate it in a sustainable and climate-wise manner. At the same time, we must ensure that the money entering the treasury is spent on green investments. We know, of course, that today we do not get free from the use of oil and gas just because Denmark does not take oil and gas out of the underground. Then we will have to buy it in Russia or elsewhere where the treatment of oil and gas is much less climate-friendly. So until we succeed in doing so, and I hope we can do so together with the alternative, we really must increase the demand on the green agenda, make sure that there are electric cars out there, that there are electric buses or green buses, that the whole transport sector is really being changed. For until then, unfortunately, we will need oil and gas, and it is greener in Denmark than it is in Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153705	The questioner for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153706	The reason why I am asking the question is, of course, that all the opposition parties in the final debate last summer made a joint statement saying that what we could at least agree on in the opposition parties was that our climate policy should be based directly on what climate scientists said. We agreed on this, and what the UN climate panel and all sorts of good people say is that fossil energy should be left in the ground. Therefore, it seems quite paradoxical that you go to a North Sea settlement where you pull up the fossil energy, and therefore I still wonder why the SF is in that settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153757	I was really happy that we were doing a common climatology together, we five parties. It really shows that red block and green block have a lot in common, and I know what work has been put into it by the SF to make it succeed. So I am glad that we managed to create a common chronicle, and it says among other things. This is also the North Sea Oil Agreement. After all, it is not only the SF that is part of the North Sea Agreement, because it is the Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the SF, and we are doing so precisely with the ambition that we should have a green transformation and that we should have this money into the Treasury. That's 26 billion anyway. kr., we are talking about which we can use to invest in, among other things. sea winds and other renewable energy types. At the same time, I am well aware that we should not talk about new fields, but it is an existing field. If you take note of what the Paris Agreement says, they are talking about new areas. But this isn't a new field. It's the Tyra field that you extend. However, I think this is an important debate and I am therefore also pleased that the Alternative and Enhedslisten are part of the Energy Agreement, in which the North Sea Oil Agreement is thus accepted, because it applies to the investments that need to be seen in the green area in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153904	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115153909	Thank you and thank you for your speech. I think there were a great many perspectives there on which we agree, and there is, in fact, a general one. We have common views on how important it is to work together in Europe within the European Union; we have common green ambitions; we are very determined to combat poverty in Denmark; and we have also fought together against educational savings. All these things have in common that there we have stood a little in the opposite corner of the Danish People's Party. They're not so crazy about the European Union, they've introduced all these poverty benefits, they've made the financial laws that save on education, and they've barely got a green conversion policy. That is why my question is actually: is it even conceivable that SF should form a parliamentary basis for or form part of a government whose parliamentary basis is the Danish People's Party, for example, consisting of a majority S, SF and the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154007	Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154008	SF will not be in government with the Danish People's Party. I have noticed that this is such a myth as Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left are very busy spreading. First of all, I have noted that the Danish People's Party points to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, which makes it more difficult, because I do not see how the SF points to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Secondly, we have a different starting point. The Danish People's Party is a national conservative party, SF is a socialist party, so I don't see that for myself. But I am not as concerned with letters as I have noticed that the Radical Left is. I am much more concerned with politics and, for example, when it comes to politics. As far as we are concerned, Mr President, I am much more in agreement with Mr Seligman's report. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party than I have experienced being with the Radical Left. When an allowance reform was made, I was so sorry that the Radical Left failed some of the weakest in our society, some of those who become unemployed, and I have noted that the Danish People's Party has been willing to look at a revision of the benefit reform. There are differences, so let's look at the contents instead of talking letters.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154109	Here you go for the second brief remark, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154111	I wasn't in the room when the benefit reform was made. It happened on Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's initiative, so I don't really know how it fits with the story. Yes, that's how it was, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, that's how it was! There's plenty of things we have in common. But I just don't think I got an answer and I actually think there are many people who are interested in hearing it not on whether SF can sit in government with the Danish People's Party, but on whether one can form a parliamentary basis for a government or form part of a government that has the Danish People's Party as a parliamentary basis. In other words, will one be able to form a government on the basis of a SDFSF majority? You can just say yes or no to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154152	First of all, I would like to say about the benefit reform: that is how we both remember that it was the Danish People's Party together with the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives who made the reform, but the Radical Left joined it and made it impossible to change it during our reign. So a lot of people have felt that afterward. So when Mr. Morten Østergaard talks about poverty, I think, sir. Morten Østergaard should be ashamed of himself. Because if someone has been so busy making people poor in Denmark, then it is the Radical Left. With regard to government constellations, I would like to say that the SF clearly points to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister after the elections. There should be no doubt about that. And we do so in the expectation that we will be able to conduct politics with Mrs Mette Frederiksen. I hear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl points to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and therefore I cannot imagine that we are going in government together or anything like that, and that is certainly not the SF's plan either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154248	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154253	That's tempting. In connection with the exchange of views which Mr. Morten Østergaard and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr just had, I am incredibly glad that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr just touched on the matter of the worn out, because that is actually what I wanted to ask. For that is right, and I would like to confirm that we have a common starting point, in that we must do better as a society for those who become worn out and may not be able to work right up to retirement age, regardless of when the retirement age is and therefore today experience an unworthy departure from the labour market. We simply need to do better. What I want to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is whether there have been any major ideas about how best to do that task. Where is it you put in? What new tools are needed to ensure that we actually take better care of those people in our welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154347	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154348	I don't have a finished model if I'm to be honest. I think that some of the things that are interesting, among other things. is part of what 3F has been launching here in the last few days, talking about whether, for a certain number of years, before you want to hit the natural retirement age, you can be assessed in relation to whether you can keep to the retirement age. And if you can't, we can look at whether you can come up with some other kind of benefit, pension or something. At any rate, I think it is very important that we provide for those people who have been very many years in our labour market. There is no difference in whether you are a sosu assistant and enter the labour market at the age of 17, or whether you are a lawyer and enter the labour market at the age of 30, compared to how long you can last. And here I am not just talking about the physical and working hours, here I am also talking about what can really be held up mentally in the long run. And it has to be said that there are a great many of the FOA members and a great many of the 3F members who cannot live up to the retirement age that politicians unfortunately choose to set up over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154449	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154450	Thank you. In other words, when I am around meetings, one of the things that I think is most often encountered in this debate is the question of whether it is possible to make some kind of differentiated approach, that is to say that if you have had, let us say, 40 years in the labour market, you can leave the labour market earlier than others who then have to put up with being stuck on the labour market for a longer period of time • that is, when they look themselves up against the person who has studied at university and enters the labour market relatively late in his youth. Could one imagine such models where there were differentiated rights, i.e. if one could prove that one had been on the labour market for 40 or some number of years, then one got an enhanced right? Or is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr thinking more in specific areas of work which one could typically appoint to be the areas where one gets the most worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154546-2	I have seen that Germany has this 40-year model in their labour market, that is, if you have been 40 years in the labour market, you can retire. I have also noted that the Enhedslisten has made a proposal that after 40 years in the labour market one should have the opportunity to do so. And there is a lot of appeal in the idea, I think, because then you have a right, and then you can be sure when you can get a pension. The point is, of course, that often many of those who need to retire earlier are already dead or worn out or have all sorts of other problems when they have been 40 years on the labour market. This is certainly the case when we talk about FOA members, or when we talk about 3F members, they are already so worn out when they have been 40 years on the labour market. So I'm not quite sure that model lasts. There are also some challenges in relation to women going on maternity leave, and therefore it will be even longer before they have actually earned 40 years. And there will be some challenges with many of those who choose to go part-time rather than full-time or who are forced to part-time in the public sector. So, as I said, I'm not sure that model will last. But I like the principles of it, that is to say, that there is a certain right in it, in that one also has the right to a dignified old age. I'm just not sure about the model. And there I would really like to get the social partners to come to the table too, especially the trade union movement, and make some of the bids that are needed to ensure a proper old age, also for the worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154704	Thank you. The party leader didn't spend the first 3 minutes completely, so I forgive the party leader for the overrun here. There are no more brief remarks to this party leader, so we continue in the party leader order, and the next party leader is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115154724	Thank you. Then we have come to the last speaker and the journalists have gone home, and the political commentators have probably also interpreted what we could learn from this debate. But that should not stop me from saying a few words anyway. It is a day of joy, I would say, and so it is every day, for what a country we live in, what a society we live in. I hope that all of us in this room and around the Danish country are basically grateful to have received the gift of living and being born on this spot, the Danish society. I really think one should lack vision and think that Denmark is a small island in the world if one cannot see that we are actually doing very well in our country. It's a nice country, but are there things that can get better? Yes, hopefully there is in every country at all times and in every system. But I think we're okay. So let the joy be the starting point for this discussion, which I think we are missing, and we, as politicians, sometimes lack that too, that is to say, to see the glass half filled in a situation where things are actually going very well. We are in a situation where we have eased taxes on business. It is going well out there, more people are in work, and that is the best social policy to pursue, namely to ensure that people get to work. Children need to see their parents who go to work every day, that's what they need to get used to. Then our security is important. When we are safe, we can do most, we can do everything, and for us to have a safe society to live in, it is good that we have a strong police force, a police force that is getting bigger and bigger. After all, this is an agreement that we will be negotiating again in 2019 for 2020 and beyond, but by the end of 2019 we will have 600 more police officers than we had in 2015, i.e. net. This has not come about by itself, it is because we have been a number of parties that have taken that responsibility upon us. We've set in against the gangs. The gangs, who, if any, created insecurity in the streets, and who almost fired at will and behaved in a way for which only words are lacking, are now behind bars. 440 gang members are behind bars, the gangs are breaking up, and we've banned Loyal to Familia. We have taken action against juvenile delinquency to ensure that there is more prevention from the very young, and there is a consequence for young people as well. We owe this to a society that cares about what society we have and how children and young people should have it, and then we have to secure it and take action from the very young. After all, it requires a Parliament that is ready to take some responsibility and pursue a clear and consistent legal policy, and fortunately a large majority will want to do so in here. We must have the best possible health care for the Danes, which is why it will soon be good to open up the package that the government is bringing with it, namely the reform of which the Conservative People's Party is in any case very happy to be a part, and it will soon be presented. We have strengthened our defence and it is important for Denmark to be an active part of NATO. So it's kind of just a really happy Conservative Party chairman who's standing here and can just say, "I love you!"
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155049	Thank you. For the time being, there is a single questioner, and that is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155053	Fantastic. I almost think, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen can figure out that I have been waiting for the opportunity to avoid meeting the Minister of Justice and instead of being able to ask a question directly to the Conservative leader and kick him off a conservative answer. Because when we had the debate on the Public Access Act in this Chamber, we had like teflon pansed up and avoided all questions, but now we can get the Conservative answer. What are the choices? Should we make the real relaxation of the rules of the Public Service Act, on which a number of parties tabled a proposal for adoption by a large minority, and which I think is very well in line with what Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has said as a conservative leader on previous occasions? Is it still the policy of the Conservative People's Party, and would it be possible, as it is today, to endorse the proposals made by us, in other words by this large minority?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155152	Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155154	Exactly what form it should take, I am not going to say here today, but I can only confirm that we are in favour of a change in the public law and that the ministerial service rule needs to be changed. We've been saying that all along, and we still mean that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155207	Sir. Mr Østergaard, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155209	That's great. My second question is a slightly more serious one. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen spoke of security, and I think that is something that it is very important to hold on to. The residents of Bording at Ikast have been insecure about the way the government has handled the situation of expelled asylum seekers and people who have tolerated residence, and now the inhabitants of Kalvehave are nervous about Lindholm, which is now being looked at. I'm just gonna ask sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, if it is the case that there is no increased security risk by choosing this island solution with the restrictions it imposes on freedom of movement and on the possibility of seeking family, etc. Is it today that there is no increased security risk by choosing to place them on an island rather than choosing a solution that includes some of the asylum centres we have around us?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155307	Here you go to the party leader.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155310	I am simply in doubt as to whether I understand the premise of that question. I do not see how there can be an increased security risk at all. Well, the good thing about the island solution is that you have at least a little better track of where these people, who should basically go out, are. We cannot get rid of them all, but they have committed serious crime, and that is why there will be good police coverage in these areas. I don't think you've ever been as good a police deck as you'll be exactly in Kalvehave and surroundings after this. That's exactly what we've set up cops for. We're training more cops to solve this, so it's good for the safety of all Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155351	Thank you to the party leader for that. There are no more brief comments. After that, the party leader's debate is over. Don't worry, we've called the vote, which will start in a few minutes, but we'll only have to move some names and some buttons when the party leaders now leave the front row of chairs and find their own seats. So it's gonna be a few minutes, but I'm not gonna call you formally for a break.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155740	Then we continue with the meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155749	Maja Panduro (S) has applied for leave from 15 January 2019, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, while Sjúrður Skaale (JF) has applied for leave, also from 15 January 2019, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155839	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Malte Larsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 15 January 2019 on the occasion of Maja Panduro's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the 4th deputy of Javnaðarflokkurin in the Faroe Islands, Henrik Old, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 15 January 2019 on the occasion of Sjúrður Skaale's leave. It should be noted that the first, second and third alternates have indicated that they do not wish to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115155928	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken now. Is there a problem with the voting system? I'd like you to be clear by now. Are they? Does anyone have any problems with the voting system now? Then we shall conclude the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 103 votes. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115160025	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 54 by Karina Adsbøl (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-Britt Kattrup (LA) and Erik Lund (KF), and a vote can be taken now. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 52 (DF, V, LA, KF and 1 EL (by mistake)) voted against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF and 1 LA (by mistake)) abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 54 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 53 by Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Lotte Rod (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115160134	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115160152	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF (by mistake)) voted against 68 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115160239	There is no general right to speak. It is only the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Jesper Petersen, who has the floor. While he is being given the floor, I can tell you that the proposal is about amending the law on the taxation of electricity and the law on the taxation of pleasure craft insurance. And I believe that there is now so much calm that we can start the debate. Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115160328	The bill is intended to translate some of the agreements concluded in connection with the 2019 Finance Act. The proposal here proposes a reduction in the electric heating tax on holiday homes with a consumption of more than 4 000 kWh to correspond to the electric heating tax on all-year houses. It is also proposed to reduce the tax on insurance for pleasure craft, not least sailing boats and motorboats, will be affected. In relation to the electric heating charge for summer houses, we think it makes sense that the reduced electric heating charge in general will now also apply to the summer houses. There are some positive effects for the environment and climate in having more heat pumps used in the heat supply, also in the areas outside district heating coverage. Here, too, you go in and let it include summer houses in addition to the full-year houses already covered by it. We think it is a good idea to create this incentive, but we think that the proposal is knitted together in a way that does not get the full environmental impact of it by having more people included in it also those summer homes that are not the very large and more luxurious ones, which are the ones that come up with this relatively high consumption. One should make a scheme that made it attractive for owners of a more common sized cottage to switch to having a heat pump as a heating supply in their summer homes. This is also one of the points that several of the consultation answers point to, i.e. that you could have knitted that proposal better together. The very purpose of strengthening tourism is also included in it, and we therefore support that too. But perhaps more summer homes could be included here too. It would be more attractive to rent out if some of the smaller holiday homes were also included. Then you could also have a greater impact on both climate and tourism. In relation to the tax on pleasure boat insurance, I would like to say that here too we would have liked to see greater creativity from the government. There are some owners of some very large boats who, with this proposal, are going to get a pretty nasty lowering of the tax. Perhaps that is what was intended. For example: the Liberal Alliance and also others in the government would very much like to reduce the top tax. It failed, and maybe you can find some other ways. But it is also the case, of course, that there are very many of the boat owners who are in Denmark who do not come up in that class with the very large boats and thus also very great reliefs. It is more common Danes who own boats for DKK 150,000, DKK 100,000. or $200,000, which has been really tired of this charge. As I said, we should have gone a little more thoroughly and creatively and found another way of getting the same revenue from this area from the Treasury, that is to say, using a different method. One can imagine a differentiation, so it is the case that those who have both a relatively high value had to pay a little more, while those who own the smaller boats would either get rid of it or get a lower tax. There are also quite other ways that I have come across from Danish Toursailers who have started a good and constructive work on how to do this without any loss of revenue. It is also forms other than compulsory liability insurance which could then be subject to a tax. A form of sailing signs could be introduced in which, according to objective criteria of the size of the boat, a charge could be imposed. There are various other ways of getting the same revenue. And I do not wish to deny that we could do without the cash insurance tax, which in practice is what we have today, and thus get the proceeds into a smarter way. As I said, we would like to see greater political creativity. On the bottom line there are two suggestions here. One costs 50 million. kr. in lasting effect and the second approx. 20 million kr. in a lasting way and the financing is provided by increasing the interest rate on the residual tax payable by companies to the tax administration. We do not really object to that. That is why our conclusion is that we are going to vote in favour of this bill, but we would like to try, during the committee procedure, to find some other ways of doing this levy on pleasure craft other than what is being proposed here. Who knows if we can get on with another tax? It has some unintended effects when you put it on the shell insurance. There are some who choose not to insure their boats completely. A loss of jobs has also been pointed out by the fact that some people choose to put their boats in other ports in other countries and, for example, in other countries. During the winter their repairs will be made there. We really think that this is going to be a good thing. It does, and we can vote in favour of it. However, we think that it could have been done in smarter ways, so that it is still a socially fair collection of the tax and perhaps also some more sensible derivative measures in this whole area around pleasure crafts. The same applies to the electric heating tax, where more could have been done for climate and tourism with a slightly more thorough and creative approach with the climate glasses on to solve this problem, which has been pointed out about the electric heating tax on summer homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115160906	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115160912	Thank you for your speech and thank you for your support. It seemed like it hurt a little bit for the Social Democratic Party to have to support a tax relief. At least there were many problems with it. But I just think that those who sit and follow this debate deserve a little history. I think it is a strange criticism that Social Democrats are making of reducing the tax on pleasure boats. Because if it were to be more creative, more socially fair, it would be wise for the Social Democrats to acknowledge that the increase made from 1 to 1.34% was made while the Social Democrats were in government. So there was the opportunity to make it more progressive, so that some who had a lot of money had to pay something more. But when you were responsible, you simply did not have the creativity to do so. Now the government and the Danish People's Party bring the tax back to what it was five years ago, when no one really complained that it was socially unfair. Everyone paid 1%. of the insurance value. It has been so very fair that everyone has contributed. But why do we need to hear that there is a lack of creativity? Sorry, sir. Jesper Petersen, that the Social Democracy raised the tax 4-5 years ago and did it in an uncreative way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161034	I think we should have taken the trouble to think this through and find a smarter way to do it. I am not too big for what to say, to admit or admit that I wish my party and others who made that agreement had already done so at the time. I think, on the other hand, it's wrong when Mr. Knox... Torsten Schack Pedersen says that it was actually unproblematic even when it was at 1%. Because the fact that I have spoken on this matter and also rather boldly has spoken on this matter has probably also led me to get a lot of inquiries from some of these owners of yachts and have actually become wiser in this area. I've also been visiting some of the owners... Danske Tursailers were there, it was a visit down in Sønderborg and I actually became aware of some of the problems that are about it. So, yes, I'd like to acknowledge that. I think that should have been done earlier. Even when the tax was 1%, there were people who were tired of it being there, and we could have bothered ourselves to do so in the past. Now's the chance here again, and if I'm gonna take Mr. Knox... Torsten Schack Pedersen's speech as an undertaking that you are interested, I think we should work together on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161146	I agree that it was not unproblematic either when it was 1%, but there was not much talk about it. And the consequence of that increase is that Mr. Jesper Petersen is absolutely right, that is, that it pushed things. Perhaps that is the lesson, that is to say, one should be very, very careful about raising taxes, because it can suddenly have some violent derivatives, which the government at that time was at least totally arguing against, even though we on the Left tried very hard to draw attention to it 5-6 years ago. However, I am pleased to make another point on the list of things that the Social Democratic Party carried out when they sat in government, as they now regret that list getting longer and longer, for every day that goes by.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161231	Well, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen have a good time for me. I am referring to the draft law here and to whether we could not find an even better solution across the political spectrum than the government is proposing here. That possibility would also have been possible if there had been wider negotiations on the Finance Act, but the government has not been interested in that. Now we are standing where we are and maybe we could have that discussion. What is left here is that the tax will still be at 1%. Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is obviously also very problematic, and it is the government's policy that it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161306	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. And welcome to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161316	This bill deals with the implementation of the financial law agreement for 2019. It contains two tax incentives, one of which is a reduction in the tax on electricity for heating summer homes and holiday apartments, and the other is a reduction in the tax on pleasure craft insurance. We'll take the electric charge first. It is the case that you get it at a lower rate if you have a heat consumption that is more than 4,000 kWh per year. It has so far been the case that holiday homes and apartments were not part of it, but they will be in the future with the adoption of this bill. And why are we going to pass it? There are several reasons. One reason is that it benefits the climate. Many summerhouses on e.g. The west coast is now heated by wood-burning furnaces, which is not exactly the best for the climate, but by ensuring that these houses come under the electric heating charge, we also make sure that it is better to have a heat pump installed or, at the very least, to use electricity heating, which is much better, because the type of energy used is largely produced via wind turbines. The second argument is that it benefits tourism. Among other things: We can now see that the season is being extended, and when it starts to get cold along the coasts, perhaps you will have more incentive to warm up your summer house and then rent it out for a long time of the year, and that is quite positive. The summer houses are the underlying infrastructure, which means that we have a large tourism industry in Denmark, at least along the coasts. That is why it is quite positive. Something that I think one could rightly discuss is whether the limit of the 4 000 kWh has been set correctly. This is what the border is for ordinary farmhouses, but with a holiday home not being used for such a long period of the year, it might well be that the limit for holiday houses might have been set for example. 2,000 kWh or so, because it would then be the more common summer houses that got something out of this scheme, not the big pool houses and the houses that use really much power. But I must also say frankly that, when we had the debate under the Finance Act, it was the financing that was the reason why we did not change the limits, because it would of course cost a lot of extra money if we had to halve the limit or make a completely different model than was the case. But otherwise we think that this is something we could rightly look at later, if we had some funding that we could spend on, among other things. tourism or other. Then there is the last part on yacht insurance, where the rate is reduced from 1.34%. at 1%. of the value for which the vessel has been insured. It is not just about big motor boats; it is also about kayaks, windsurfboards, houseboats that have propulsion via an engine, and in a broader sense also boats that are used in sailing clubs or other things, so it is in general the pleasure craft area that the tax is relaxed for, and I think that can really be quite sensible. In any case, we have received a number of requests, as Mr. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party also mentioned, from people who report that it has cost a lot of jobs in Denmark, because the boats have been stored in the winter months abroad, neighbouring Germany and Sweden, and when they are located there, they are also repaired there. It therefore costs Danish jobs, and it is not very appropriate for us to regulate our boats out of the country in this way. So we really think it might be quite reasonable for us to roll the tax back to what it was here a few years ago with this bill. So in those words, we in the Danish People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161657	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments. And a warm welcome to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161703	Thank you for the floor. The Left wants a greener Denmark, a more efficient Denmark, and that is one of the reasons why the Left wants to lower the electric heating tax for summer houses. This can both increase the incentive to use some more green solutions as a heat pump in a summer house, but at the same time, as the previous rapporteur also pointed out, it can increase the use of the summer house. And so we may even be able to make even more use of our already existing benefits. And we think that is very positive. Therefore, we are also pleased that this can both help to get the tourism industry going and thus create some jobs, but also ensure a greener Denmark. The bill, as several others have also said, translates into part of the financial agreement concluded between the government and the Danish People's Party, where we reduce the tax rate on electricity in summer houses, so that it corresponds to the rates that are for full-year residences. So it is also, one might say, a simple way of doing so that the same rules apply. I will not go into more detail on that part of it, because I think that I have been reviewed up to several times, so instead I will move on to this with the tax on pleasure craft insurance. It's like sir. Dennis Flydtkjær has also said, precisely a tax increase that leads to a lot of Danes moving their boats out of Denmark in the winter season, where they are serviced. In fact, Dansk Industri has done an analysis with Skib & Boat, and they estimate that the boat industry is missing approx. 190 million kr. in circulation, as a result of this tax being raised in 2012 under the Social Democratic led government. It is, of course, a lot of money and jobs that Denmark is missing out on, and that is why we think it is very positive that we are reducing the tax again, so we are down to the same level as we were at earlier. Against this background, I must say that the Left supports the bill. And since the Conservative rapporteur could not be here, I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that the Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161902	Thank you very much. Then we are ready for the next rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115161915	In the Enhedslisten, we are opposed to the two relaxations contained in this bill. The first is, of course, the reduction in the electricity tax for holiday homes when consumption exceeds 4,000 kWh. We are of the opinion that support in the field of energy must be targeted at promoting green solutions. It may be heat pumps in people's private homes, but it may be the case that the aid is targeted directly, for example, to set up heat pumps and not, as it were, the Nutella method, that is to say, just spread out a tax relief in general. is produced by coal power, cheaper. We must also assume here that it is especially the more luxurious holiday homes with heated pool, sauna etc. that benefit from this proposal, and we do not think that this is the right priority. We want to increase the share of green electricity, but we do not want to do this by giving tax reductions to luxury summerhouses. Then there is the reduction in the tax on pleasure craft insurance, and it must then be reduced from 1.34 per cent. at 1%. As you have to read the proposal, at least that is how we do it, it will mean that there will be a saving of DKK 3,400. annually, if you have a shell insurance vessel worth 1 million. kr. So it is clear that the big delicious pleasure craft, with which the wealthiest in society is enjoying themselves, must have a tax reduction. Overall, the draft law provides for a lower income for the common fund of 90-100 million. kr. It is money that is primarily used to ease charges people with luxury summerhouses with pool and sauna and people who have a large boat, which for example can lie in Vedbæk Harbour. I guess it's almost as top-class gifts from the government that we, of course, from the Enhedslisten, say no to. This money could have been spent on other things. They could have been used to strengthen our common welfare, they could have been spent on more educators in kindergartens, more nurses in hospitals, more teachers in primary school. This is not what the government and the Danish People's Party have chosen to spend the money on in this bill, but it is then a bill that Enhedslisten cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162132	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162136	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The unitary list usually has the principle of voting in favour of any improvement and, of course, against any deterioration. I am thinking here, in relation to the part with the summerhouses which can get an electric heating tax, that this is probably an improvement for the climate. It has to be assumed that it crowds out a lot that today fires with wood-burning furnaces and that they may then get a heat pump or otherwise use electricity, which is typically produced via wind turbines, for heating purposes. It may well be that you want a completely different model, but you have to admit from the Enhedslisten that it is an improvement, after all, that you are now more likely to cause many to fire up via heat pumps or other. Since this is an improvement for the climate, why not support that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162214	We do not, as I think I explained. We want to make electricity cheaper, but we want to make green electricity cheaper. And it is true that if you look in isolation at someone having a wood stove and they choose to use the heat pump instead of using the wood stove because Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær and others have helped lower the electricity tax, so there will be a climate effect on it. But we do not believe that the model is the right one. We believe that when it comes to providing support for restructuring, in other words to make the green transition, it must be targeted in order to make the maximum possible climate impact out of the money. And that's why we think this is not the right way to do it, it's not the best way to do it. This will also result in a lower tax on electricity, for example. is produced by a Swedish nuclear power plant or produced by a coal power plant. I assume so, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær can also confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162314	I can confirm that, because we cannot separate electricity bills from where the electricity comes from at the present time, so they are, of course, a mixed country trade. But in many parts of Denmark and large parts of the time it is through wind power today and other energy sources that are green. And it is quite positive that we are also using them for something positive, rather than having to export it out of the country many times today, largely free of charge, because we cannot use it ourselves. I fully agree, and it is also quite fair that you can wish other methods, that you want something more or something quite different that can do even more, but when you usually have the principle that you vote for any improvement, and this is after all an improvement, why not vote for something that, after all, is moving in the right direction on the green agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162352	Because it's the wrong solution. It can be said that if all electricity in this country were produced by wind turbines, so that all electricity that came out of the outlet was pure green energy, it would make no difference whether, when you supported the green conversion, you did it as we propose from the Enhedslisten and make it for targeted support, or if you just did it by lowering the electricity tax in general. But we are also dealing with a mixed land trade, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also explained, this is just not the best way to do it, and, indeed, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162423	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund and welcome to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162433	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, as others have said, we are implementing a few initiatives from the 2019 Finance Act. It is a question of reducing the electricity tax on holiday homes, so that they are treated in the same way as full-year homes. That makes sense. We are also rolling back the previous government's tax increase on the insurance of yachts. We also think this is a very, very good initiative. I must immediately acknowledge to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jesper Petersen, that no, we are certainly not as creative when it comes to picking citizens in taxes as the Social Democracy is. I must also say that I do not recognize the presentation that has been made of this proposal, namely that it should be some kind of gift to very wealthy people. Owners of yachts in this country are, as they are most, ordinary people who have given priority to having a yacht and traveling around the Danish waters and visiting Danish islands over other consumption such as: to travel in other ways or whatever it may be. We do not think it is fair that they should be picked more in taxes, as the previous government thought, and that is why we are rolling it back now. We are very pleased about this, so of course we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162610	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162626	Thank you. In the alternative, we want to push for a sustainable transition by imposing taxes on what pollutes and making it more interesting to choose environmentally friendly solutions. As a starting point, we are only in favour of targeted reductions in electricity taxation aimed at converting to green energy. In this case, the focus is on the tourism industry, including making it cheaper to heat cottages during the winter season in particular. We must, of course, create opportunities for more meaningful jobs, but we must not consume any more. On the contrary, we must consume less. In summerhouses you already have the possibility of installing a heat pump and thus saving money on heating. As there is already a large proportion of electricity panels in summer houses, this proposal will probably only lead to a sharp increase in consumption. You already have the opportunity to install heat pump and save on consumption, and you may be able to isolate your cottage. Holiday homes are also typically less isolated, so a tax reduction and a higher consumption with the existing power panels are not something that we can immediately see any advantage in. At the same time, the alternative is to use the tax system to set the framework for a more equal society, and we do not see that the other part of the bill does. So the alternative can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162756	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162808	As the radical rapporteur cannot be present, I have promised to say on behalf of the Radical Left that we can in fact support the first part of the legislative proposal, which is about relaxing the electricity tax. As the Socialist rapporteur and the rapporteur from the Left have said, this is something that benefits the climate. We need to get more heat pumps into the summerhouses, but perhaps we could design it even better, so it covers more summer houses. We may be able to discuss this during the committee procedure. On the other hand, we have been somewhat strained with the second part of the legislative proposal, for which we really see no reason at all but to please the core voters of the Liberal Alliance. That is why we would like to call on the tax minister to consider whether the bill could be split up, because then we would very much like to vote in favour of the first part and discuss whether we could make it even better there we are in any case in a positive position and then we can be free from voting in favour of the second part.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162902	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Martin Lidegaard of Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162908	Thank you. It is quite fair that the second part of the proposal is not supported. However, there were just no arguments or considerations for this, so perhaps the rapporteur can elaborate on what makes it impossible to support the second part of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162920	We have the view in the Radical Left that we support a great many forms of tax relief in itself, but the tax cuts we would like to make are those that either tax cuts at work, so that more people can get to work and want to work, or tax cuts that benefit the green transition. That is where we give priority to the money if tax cuts are to be made. And since the cost of buying large yachts does not fall within either of the two categories, that is to say either to make it easier to work or to benefit the green conversion, we do not want to spend money on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115162959	It is not only about big yachts, it is also about surfboards and kayaks, in other words generally about what you have on the water that you have an insurance policy on. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur: what is the argument for having a tax on the insurance of a boat at all? We usually have taxes on what we want people to have less of, for example. a tax on something that pollutes, or a tax on something that is unhealthy. But why have a tax on the insurance of pleasure boats at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163026	I believe that being in politics is, of course, a matter of prioritising, and in our economic plans we do not have the opportunity to give priority to lowering taxes in this area simply because there are other areas in which we think that this is much more urgent, including, among other things, the environment. a reduction in the electricity and electric heating tax in order to promote green conversion. However, we would also very much like to make tax cuts at work, not least at the bottom, which could enable more people to enter the labour market. It's a simple priority. We must spend the money in one place or another, and we want to spend the money on people and on climate, not on boats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163102	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163106	Radicals, at least on some points, tend to call themselves reasonably pragmatic. Nor are we interested in making a significant tax relief for those who own the most expensive boats. That is why I tried to see whether we could not get the discussion somewhere else, rather than that it was all about this form, so that in a whole other way we could charge the same money, where it was still so that those who own the very large boats would have to pay theirs as they do today, and for my sake also more than they do with the proposal that is here now, but so that the smaller vessels, which ordinary Danes on average have, were a little less taxed and even with a form of insurance, which it is actually good that they have, so that they protect themselves, in the event that the accident is out. Couldn't we be a little more creative and pragmatic and get the same thing in, but smarter?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163201	I certainly will not, and certainly not because I am now not a tax rapporteur and I myself am very pragmatic, in any way deny that solutions can be found in which we can see ourselves. However, the report I have received and, as such, I agree with, as rapporteur for my party, is that this is not an area on which we see ourselves spending a great deal of money. I think there are a great many areas that need more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163221	I can agree with that, but there is, of course, the capacity and ability to make solutions in smaller areas as well. I should also like to say that this is a small corner of the tax policy that I myself did not pay much attention to before this agenda came forward and this whole discussion was raised. I have become more aware of what the tax actually does and also of the costs it imposes on some ordinary people. This is $20 million. kr., and it is financed in an excellent way, but one could quite avoid that if one simply found another way of getting the same money in. Martin Lidegaard is no longer a tax rapporteur, I know that, but I would just like to call for the usual pragmatism to be introduced if the committee work can be directed there, that there can be other ways of getting the same money in, and that the rejection here should not necessarily be so completely chiseled in granite.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163317	It is sweet music in my ears to feel social democracy as much as it is here. This is something I very much appreciate, and I am very happy to pass it on to our tax rapporteur. May this also happen in many other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163332	Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm who has a brief comment. Pleasure continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163336	I feel really guilty about asking questions to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard. For Mr. Martin Lidegaard said just now that he was the standin for the real tax rapporteur, so if it is that Mr. Martin Lidegaard prefers not to do so, I fully understand it, and I am also sorry that it is precisely Mr. Martin Lidegaard, it's gonna hurt. 'Cause it's not just Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who has claimed this with the tax on the insurance on the pleasure craft insurance. But what triggers me a little here is this discussion, where, on the side of the red block, a picture is drawn of the fact that this is a charge on expensive luxury yachts, that is, expensive boats. It is in fact a tax on insurance, that is to say, if you are going to harm others with your boat or other, you are insuring against it and that you can actually recover the cost of the damage you are doing. That is actually the part of what you put a tax on. That is why I just wanted to know whether the rapporteur thinks that it is usually good practice to tax insurance, which is actually about being able to cover the damage caused.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163437	I am very happy to answer questions from everyone, not least from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. If you just got back from maternity, it's nice to get into the heat from the first day. I have to say that I do not know the historical background to why this tax has been applied to precise ship insurance. It is quite true that this applies to everyone and not just to the expensive boats. I can at least confirm that from the legal text. Therefore, you can of course ask yourself why, in the morning of time, you have decided to do exactly that. Unfortunately, I do not know that answer. But the answer I know is whether that is where we want to grab our pockets to find money like that immediately, and it is not. After all, we are very sorry that this government has spent so much money, and there we are talking billions and I am well aware that we are talking quite different amounts here to lighten registration fees and to lighten all sorts of taxes, money that could actually have been used to lighten taxes at work, what I really think the Left agrees with us is where it would really put something, on all incomes, also at the bottom and also in relation to the top tax limit. There we just have to say at some point that we do not want to support spending taxpayers' money on reducing a lot of taxes. We want to make targeted tax cuts that actually work for the good of society, and that is more from the point of view of principle. I am not in a position to answer the question as to why you have that tax on insurance, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163604	Thank you very much, and thank you for that honest answer. I appreciate that very much. Then I would just like to make one more point, because it may be a little off in this debate. Insurance & Pension writes that they have estimated that the average cash insurance sum on these pleasure craft is DKK 250,000, and it is hardly a luxury yacht, which is just like a picture of. But it is actually a smaller boat and they say it is because the larger boats are more sailing abroad and being repaired and something like that in the winter there, and the small vessels do not have the same option. How does the rapporteur think it is environmentally friendly if you start sailing your boats to Germany and Sweden to keep them there in winter and get all the repairs done there instead of keeping them in Danish ports?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163649-2	That's a good question. It might sound like there was an answer in a drawer somewhere, because it's interesting. As I have said, we have the firm principle that if we are to make tax cuts or tax reductions, it must therefore either benefit people through tax relief or the environment. So if an actual environmental impact can be demonstrated in this, I can at least say so much that I will then include it in the radical group.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163714	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, and welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163720	The legislative proposal here is, of course, the implementation of the financial regulation that has been made, and one element is the registration fee on pleasure craft. In the SF we have the view of taxes that there must of course be a good reason for having them, either for the sake of the environment, health or whatever it may be. It has to be behavioural regulation in some way, and right here I actually have a different view of that part of the bill than my colleague from the Enhedslisten. Because we do not think it is a positive tax. Then it would have been the bill alone and we would have had an influence on it too, because you need money, and then we would have liked to join in on it and we would probably have been close to supporting it. But the other part of it is cheaper electricity for holiday home owners, and I have to say that I am surprised that so unfocused has been made a tax reduction in favour of the largest summer houses, i.e. luxury summer houses, and otherwise it has been focused on the largest summer houses. Because it is quite right that the warming in the summerhouses can also contribute to a green transition if the type of electricity used is changed, and that is what the government parties are proposing here 45,000 holiday home owners in relation to what is stated in the comments. Approx. 5,000 kroner, which you have to drop cheaper on the electricity bill every year, nevertheless amounts to quite a lot of money, and we think this is an unfocused way of spending the money, also in relation to a green conversion. If you really wanted to have more cottages on electric heating, the road would have been to give a greater subsidy to heat pumps. So we really think that it is too much money to spend in an unfocused way that benefits the biggest summer houses most, and that is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163941	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments. Then we've come to the tax minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115163952	Thank you. Well, I would like to thank you for the receipt of the bill and the exchange of views that has taken place here in the Things. It is, of course, an implementation of the 2019 Finance Act, which the government entered into in 2018 with the Danish People's Party and a Finance Act, which we are very pleased and proud of in the government and where we have done a lot of good things. Some of the things we have done together with the Danish People's Party and at the wish of the Danish People's Party are some of the things we translate into the proposal here today, namely to see if you can lower the electricity tax in relation to summer houses. And with the Finance Act agreement, a number of tax reductions are implemented that make it cheaper to be a Dane and make it easier to operate in Denmark. We are implementing the reduction in the electric heating tax for holiday homes and the reduction in the yacht insurance tax, which has also been mentioned by all the rapporteurs. What's it gonna do? This will help to increase activity in the summer cottage areas and strengthen the tourism industry. I am very pleased that it has been possible to include cottages of the lower electric heating tax; it will make it cheaper to use cottages, especially during the winter season, where a lot of electricity is required for heating. Then several rapporteurs have mentioned whether it could not have been done in a different way. Yeah, you could. However, if tourism is to be promoted, I think it is wise to target the facilitation of those houses which can then be rented out in the winter season. And these are houses where there is an electric hot tub or a large pool that attracts special German tourists. And here is the situation today that qua our high taxes on electricity is not attractive to rent because it is very energy-intensive, although there may be some who would like to come up here in the winter. We have a high electricity price and we still have very, very high electricity charges, even with the reductions we have made. Now we make a targeted reduction compared to those summerhouses with a high electricity consumption. Typically, it will also be those who are rented out. If tourism is to be targeted, this is, in the view of the government, the right way to do it. But it is true that one could also have chosen to do so in other ways. In addition, we propose to reduce the tax on pleasure craft insurance so that it becomes cheaper to insure your boat and thus be boaters. The reduction can also reduce the amount of Danish boats that are sailed for winter storage abroad to avoid the tax, and thus the turnover in the maintenance and preparation of boats in Denmark can potentially increase. And there has been a lot of discussion about this tax, which was raised as part of the tax reform in 2012, and now we are proposing to lower it. I think that is wise and right. As several rapporteurs have said, compared to the fact that you have a tax as a percentage of the insurance amount, that if you have a large boat, you get a great relaxation in crowns and ears, and if you have a small boat, you get a slight relaxation. But it is not unheard of that a tax is as a percentage; it is VAT, and that is a large number of our taxes and our taxes. And I think that we should think carefully before suddenly saying, in relation to a tax which gives such a limited revenue, that it is only going to be more than a certain amount to pay this tax. Of course you can do that, but I think it will turn out that it is administrative trouble and you will not achieve the purpose you want. And that is why I think it is wise to lower the tax for all boats, and as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm mentioned, the average insured boat in Denmark is not some huge yacht for many millions of kroner. They do exist, of course, but it's not the typical boat. These are the ones you can see when you go down to Danish ports, and that's both on, I'll shoot at, somewhere between 50,000 and 250,000-300,000 kr. that ordinary Danes have instead of having a caravan or something else. It is the case today that we have very, very high taxes on insurance. It was 1.34 per cent earlier. of the insurance sum. What is it? It's hard to relate to. But let's take a thoughtful example: You have a boat for DKK 150,000, and you have to pay 1.34 per cent. of the insurance sum. Then it's about 2,000 kroner. in tax, and in addition it comes, the insurance company must have it may of course vary, but I will shoot at it as a punch on the bag that you have to pay somewhere between 2,000 and 3,500 DKK. to insure. This means that you are up to 30-40 per cent, perhaps in some cases 50 per cent. That is what it costs to insure a boat, that is to say tax to the state. That's not fair. The same applies to cars. Of course, when you complain about your high cost of insuring your car, you can point your anger at the insurance company. But we should also point our anger at those of us politicians who have decided that we have to pay a great deal of tax to insure our car. That is why I fully agree with the comments made by my fellow Members, namely that this idea of having an insurance tax should perhaps be asked, as a politician, whether it is really wise now. We want people to make sure that we want them to insure their car, and we also want them to insure their boat. Now we are relaxing the insurance in the boat sector, and I think that will lead to more choosing to sail under the Danish flag and pay the Danish insurance and thus also the Danish tax. And I wonder if it can also draw some repair work to Denmark. That is why I would like to thank you for the broad support and also for the somewhat surprising support that comes from the Social Democrats. I hope that we will succeed in persuading even more parties to vote in favour of the bill when it comes to the third reading. Until then, I shall look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115164600	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief remarks to him. As no one else has indicated that they wish to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115164626	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Christensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115164650	Thank you. The draft law, L 136, as the President mentioned, is amendments to the Law of the Sea and amendments to the Law of Mortification. And the aim is to create a more up-to-date basis for the introduction of digital ship registration. In addition, the draft law also proposes to reduce the period during which ship diaries are to be kept, from 3 years to 1 year. It is the case that already in 2006 the Danish Parliament adopted amendments to the Maritime Act, which should actually form the basis for the introduction of digital ship registration. However, we have to note that the implementation of the law has taken place to a limited extent and therefore, in L 136, adjustments are added to make digital ship registration more up-to-date. And contrary to the 2006 law, where digital registration was intended to take place gradually, it is proposed that digital registration should now take place at once. The amendment of the mortification law means that no pledge paper can be required after the digital registration has been introduced. And since a digital ship registration system has not yet been developed, it is the Minister of Industry who sets the date for the entry into force of the law on digital ship registration. However, the expectation is that it can happen by 2020, i.e. that the system will be fully developed, and then the law can come into force. On the other hand, the part of the draft law which deals with the reduction of the period for ship diaries from three years to one year already comes into force here on 1 July of this year. The Social Democratic Party can support the bill immediately, but we have some concerns about the things that Denmark's Ship Credit expresses in their consultation response to the digital registration of mortgages, and which Finance Denmark also supports in their consultation response. That is why I hope that the Minister can at least explain today or during the committee procedure how we will respond to that concern and how we can deal with it, so that this concern will prove unfounded. The part of the bill, which deals with the reduction of the retention period of the ship's diary from 3 to 1 years, has CO-Sea expressed concern about in their consultation response. In the same way, we would also like to hear from the Minister whether it is true, however, that the burden on the industry is so great that the diaries should be kept for three years instead of one year that the concern expressed in the consultation reply cannot be met. Because immediately, it must be said that when the diary is made, it is stored somewhere, and I guess no one should spend extra time on it lying and being stored somewhere. So I'm having a little trouble understanding why you can't respond to that concern. But I expect that we can either take that during the committee procedure or that the Minister can explain it here later. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115164955	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165009	Well, I can start where Mr. Knox is. Erik Christensen escaped from the bill. It's not that there's a lot of concrete initiatives in this bill. There are, of course, only two, but although there are not so many, they can be quite reasonable anyway. As it seems, this is not the greatest success we have had in implementing the legislative changes that were left in 2006, which wanted to make a number of amendments to the Maritime Act, which should make it significantly easier to introduce digital systems and models in relation to digital ship registration. Many years have gone by, and it is probably time to try to follow up the initiatives already launched at that time in relation to the specifics of digital ship registration. Now it is the case that back in February 2018 we reached an agreement, also with the government, on initiatives for Denmark's digital growth, and there it was here part of the larger and smaller initiatives that were agreed, so we naturally support the overall proposal for the digital changes. It is also the case that, in relation to what Mr. Erik Christensen mentioned whether to store this information for 3 or 1 years, we must of course have a guarantee that we are on safe ground when we are now dropping the number of years when you have to save these case records from the individual ships. However, the Danish People's Party supports the entire bill and looks forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165156	You're welcome, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165205	Thank you. The bill translates some of the elements of the growth plan for Blue Denmark and the political agreement on initiatives for Denmark's digital growth. The aim of the bill is to create a more up-to-date basis for digital ship registration. We have adopted the basic principles of digitalisation a number of years ago, but now we are just putting the last thing on the table, and this will mean that we will have the burden relieved both for the authorities, but especially for the business community, for shipping companies, as digitalisation will make the process of ship registration more effective. There is a concrete proposal that the Maritime Authority may lay down rules on the conversion of ownership pledges on paper to digital pledges, and the proposal also contains an amendment to the Mortification Act, so as to avoid getting into a situation where pledges can be required on paper after digital ship registration has been introduced. As has also been mentioned by the two previous rapporteurs, yes, of course it requires a new IT system to be in place. It is expected to be in place by 2020, and only when the IT system is in place will things be started. And it is quite reasonable that we should have the IT systems in place before we press the button. As has also been explained, the requirement for keeping diaries kept on ships is reduced from three years to one year. Basically, the legislative proposal means that we will have the administrative burdens on business eased, and we are basically very much in favour of this in the Left. That's 12.5 million. kr. annual, which companies are freed from administrative work to a greater focus on what they are put in the world for, namely to run business and create growth and jobs for Denmark. We think this is basically quite, quite reasonable and a perfectly natural and important agenda for a civil-liberal government, and that is why we, of course, warmly support the bill on the part of the Left. I have promised to greet my good colleagues from the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party and to say that, of course, they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165423	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. And welcome to Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165432	After all, it may be sensible to lighten administrative burdens for business, especially if it has no consequences for some others. Sometimes it is the case that the administrative burdens have a purpose, and that is also why we are sceptical about this proposal, namely that there may be negative consequences from removing these administrative burdens. And, of course, it is very much because of some of the consultation answers that have been received that we have that view. If we look at the consultation answer from CO-Søfart, they point out, as I think has already been said, that proposing that the diaries should be kept for a shorter period of time may lead to problems in lifting the burden of proof in cases such as this. accidents at work on board ships. So here we are, of course, in a situation where there are administrative burdens, which must then be kept up to some consequences for some workers working on these ships, and it is, of course, a trade-off that can be landed in different places. But in this case, unlike the Left, we are going to land on the grounds of employees. Then there is the issue of digital registration. A concern has also been raised from Denmark's Ship Credit, which is that in relation to some cases that need to be conducted abroad, for example, concerning: mortgage on these ships, it may be a problem to get foreign courts to deal with digital mortgages because they are not known or recognised yet. We think that these are some relevant objections which should be taken into account in the further process, but, as the proposal now stands, we cannot at least support it on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165641	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted, and welcome to Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165649	Thank you. I am not going to do this very long because the previous rapporteurs have been through what this proposal is all about. We are immediately in favour of the proposal because digitisation makes things easier, but there are some obs's, I think, in the consultation answers to which there is not really the answer and which I think we should look at either with the Minister here today or in the committee procedure. And that's especially in relation to CO-Søfart's hearing on these diaries, where you will go from storage for 3 years to storage for 1 year. I have a little need to hear the good reason for this, because if you have digital retention of diaries, I cannot understand that the amount of data can be so difficult to store for the longer period of time, i.e. the three years. I simply do not understand the challenge in that, so I think it is worth looking at how we can take the consultation answers seriously and perhaps meet the concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165748	Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165755	As the radical rapporteur cannot be present, I should just like to say that we are also in favour of the proposal, but also of some of the objections which, among other things, have been raised. Social democracy has been mentioned, in relation to diary and digital ship registration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165808	Thank you very much. Then we have come to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165823	Thank you. I can also be brief. We're mostly positive about this bill. This makes very good sense in many areas. In the SF, however, we have the same concerns as several of our colleagues have, namely in relation to the digital mortgages in relation to foreign countries and also in relation to industrial injury cases. The answer to the consultation answer says that it does not make much difference to go down from three years to one year, but several of my colleagues have asked: what does it really mean in practice? And if there is that concern, why do some people worry that it might harm the cause of occupational injury if it is really just about storing this information? So if the Minister is sensitive to that, we would very much like to support it. It is the 21st century and there is some clear progress here, but we think it would be a pity if it were to hang like a black cloud over this, that there are some who are worried that it might mean that some people are not getting right in their cause of industrial injury.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165946	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. We will probably have an answer to that in a moment, because now the trip to the Minister for Industry has arrived.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115165958	Thank you for the predominantly positive reception of the draft law, which has two objectives. First of all, it is to create a more up-to-date basis for the introduction of digital ship registration as a follow-up to an agreement on initiatives for Denmark's digital growth. Secondly, the draft law will reduce the minimum retention period for diaries kept on ships from three years to one year from the date of importation. I guess I'm quite in agreement with sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, who said that it may not be the world's largest bill and that it may not be what revolutionizes the world, but it is a good little move to make it easier for our shipping. The establishment of a new digital register of ships is an extension of the agreement on initiatives for Denmark's digital growth. The Register of Shipping is intended to help reduce the burden on the maritime industry through better self-service facilities by automating a large part of the proceedings. Back in 2006, the Danish Parliament adopted a series of legislative amendments to form the regulatory framework for the introduction of digital ship registration. However, they have not been implemented since 2006, and there are various reasons for this, among others. the costs proved to be underestimated, and then there was a desire to see how the start-up phase took place in other similar areas. Overall, the original draft law provides a good basis for the digitalisation that is now being implemented. The draft law therefore contains only a few adjustments in relation to the regulatory framework and, in the case of minor adjustments, this is due to the fact that today it is planned to allow digitalisation to take place at once. In 2006, digitalisation was intended to take place gradually, but, as the Folketing knows, there has been a major development in society in the digital field, where it was relatively new in 2006. The digitalisation of the Register of Shipping will lead to burden relief for the industry. At present, it has been estimated to lead to ongoing administrative relief for business of approximately 12.5 million. kr. annual. The rules on digital ship registration, and here we are talking about both this bill and the 2006 Act, will be able to be put into effect when the necessary IT system is available. And the expectation is that the IT system will be in place by 2020, and then it will be in place by that time, Minister of Business, I hope it is me, but it may also be, it is another one that could put the system into effect. In relation to the objection raised by CO-Søfart regarding the retention time of diaries, I am open to that discussion. It is, of course, a very short consultation answer that has been sent in, it has to be said, and I therefore miss some examples of exactly what situation it would be a problem if you do not have the diaries for more than one year. I have probably basically the approach to regulation that there should be a reason to have a rule rather than a reason to abolish it. As a starting point, we want as few rules as possible and the rules must be justified. So I need to see some examples of where it will go wrong if you do not have the diaries lying for more than one year. Some of the other parties with which this has been reversed have not had those objections and have not felt that there will be any problem in keeping the diaries for only one year. So I hope that CO-Sea will send something a little more in-depth about what situations they are thinking of, and we will of course take those objections seriously here after the first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115170353	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115170358	Thank you to the Minister, and yes, CO-Søfart's hearing answer is very short. Instead of waiting for something more to come, I would just like to know if this is something the Minister might take the initiative to find out, that is to say, a greater deepening around it, so that this proposal could slip through easily and quickly, so that it is really a little proactive in relation to it, so that we can examine properly what is the situation with this problem that is at least being raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115170424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115170426	Well, we're gonna make sure that we get a little more detailed, that's to say, make contact with CO-Seafart. And if they have not heard what I have said now, I would certainly ask them to clarify the concerns they have described very briefly in their response to the hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115170440	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As this is not the case and no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115170504	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115170529	Thank you for the motion for a resolution. I'm gonna get my papers out. We are discussing a motion for a resolution on social representatives on the Board of Directors of financial institutions. It is a proposal made by the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Socialist People's Party. Until 2002, public representatives were required to sit on the boards of financial undertakings. In contrast to the rules at the time they were abolished in 2002 it is now proposed that public representatives should be given the opportunity to report suspicious and illegal matters as well as excessive risk taking to the Attorney General for Special Economic and International Crime, SØIK, the bailiff police. In addition, according to the proposers, the social representative must be exempted from the obligation of professional secrecy in relation to the provision of information to the authorities and, finally, the social representatives must comply with the applicable fit & proprietary rules. The government cannot support the motion for a resolution. The reason why the original requirement was abolished in 2002 was that the public representatives had made no difference, for example. in the form of increased accountability within the Management Board. That is certainly our view. It was also, as far as I remember, among other things. Social democracy's view when it was abolished. The public representative was to hold the Board of Directors in line with the other members of the Board of Directors with the same rights and duties. It was also established in the courts that the public representative had the same liability in terms of compensation as the other members of the board, even if the person did not have the same qualifications as a board member. When the scheme was abolished, regulation in Denmark was brought into line with the overwhelming majority of other European countries' regulations. In addition, a majority in the Folketing has chosen to go a different way to guarantee social considerations, namely by substantially tightening the requirements of the directors of the financial institutions since the abolition of the public representative in 2002. This concerns, among other things: on the suitability and integrity requirements, fit & proprietary rules. After all, I believe that we share the intention, which I sense is behind the proposal, to ensure that there is no financial crime in the financial sector. It is, of course, totally unacceptable for everyone in the Folketing to do so. The government just doesn't feel here that public representatives are the most precise answer to that challenge. We have a number of other proposals that I will be presenting soon, and I also know that the FSA has a number of proposals which will soon be sent to us politicians. That is why there are other ways of combating crime and irresponsibility in the financial sector than through public representatives. I heard here in the debate that, among other things, we have been told that we are not going to be able to do anything about it. on behalf of the Socialist Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mogens Lykketoft was supposed to be on the board. I am not sure that putting old politicians on the board of banks, for example, would make it possible to discover things such as the money laundering case, from which this whole discussion may well arise. It takes a very great deal of knowledge about how a bank works. This requires a sharpness about banking, which I do not think former politicians will necessarily have. So we do not think that this is a very precise response to the challenges of the financial sector, and we have other proposals that we will soon be presenting and discussing with the financial conciliation group and the rest of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171005	It gave rise to a few brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171009	Thank you for the Minister's reply, and also thank you for recognising that there are a number of changes to the original system in the proposal we have put forward which remedy some of the problems that exist. What concerns me a little is that, as the Minister himself said, there has been a great deal of agreement that what we have seen in recent years in the financial sector is totally unacceptable. And a public representative who, of course, needs to have knowledge in this area, as the proposal also implies, will somehow sit there with a different agenda. So, let's take Amagerbanken, Roskilde Bank, Danske Bank in connection with the money laundering scandal. The problem is that the board members who sit there may sometimes have an interest in closing their eyes to things that happen; an interest that a person appointed by the Minister of Business will not have to the same degree. Can the Minister not see a benefit in that there is someone sitting around that table who serves a different purpose from the other board members, namely wearing the social spectacles and not the bank's business glasses?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171126	I understand the intention, and I also agree that there is a need for the incentive to fight money laundering, for example, to be greater than it has been in the past. And that is why, with the support of all parties in the Danish Parliament, we have also adopted higher penalties for not combating money laundering enough, and that we too, with the full support of the Danish Parliament, will now begin to strengthen the Danish FSA, so that the chance to discover that money laundering is going on in Danish banks will increase. And if you increase the risk of being caught and increase the penalties, you also increase the motivation to do more to combat money laundering. So that is at least one of the things I feel is the answer to how we can better combat financial crime in the financial sector. There are a large number of other issues which also need to be discussed: whistleblower protection, penalty length, limitation periods and access to data. There are a large number of other proposals that can also help to combat crime in the financial sector. And we simply feel that it is better to respond to the challenges than the proposal here, which we think has some obvious problems built into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171257	I do not think I have quite heard what the obvious problems were, but it may be that the Minister can answer it in the second round. After all, it is very positive that the government is on the way with something, and I just noted that the Minister said in his first reply that negotiations with the Financial Conciliation Committee and the other parties of the Folketing would be opened. Is this a signal that the negotiations that are going to take place here in the near future will be extended so that they do not only cover the financial conciliation circle? Because that would be really happy news.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171328	No, I'm afraid it's not. The negotiations will take place in the financial conciliation area. As I have said many times, the input from those parties which are not in the conciliation circle is, of course, also very welcome. Ideas do not get worse because they come from parties that sit outside the financial conciliation circle, and we will listen to them with just as much interest as to ideas that come from elsewhere. And I have one of them. spent my Christmas holiday reading Enhedslisten's paper on combating crime in the financial sector. So thank you for the constructive input that has come from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171405	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171408	Thank you, and also thank you for the approach taken by the Minister of Industry to these things, in general terms, in terms of how we can ensure that there is confidence in the financial sector; that there is a framework that ensures that what we have seen of scandals, not least Danske Bank's money laundering case, will not be repeated. The Minister said that in the wake of the abolition of this scheme in 2002, Danish legislation came into line with many other countries in the following years. We had that discussion in the autumn, in relation to whether Danish legislation is actually in line with that of other countries. After all, the European countries have quite different arrangements in relation to how they keep an eye on the boards of financial institutions. It is all from the fact that it is sociologists who keep an eye on whether there will be a bad culture and to what it might be. What could be the reason why it would be damaging to have this scheme with a social representative? There have been reports that meetings have been held, for example. Danske Bank, where the whistleblower's warnings or the Russian central bank's warnings actually came up to a rather high level. Now we haven't been in the boardroom, but what could be harmful by reintroducing this scheme in a better way than was done last time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171540	If you're gonna sit on a bank board, I think you should know how to run a bank. I don't see that right now if you put former politicians on the boards. It is, of course, also a question of the dividing lines between private companies and the political sphere. How much do politicians have to sit directly in the boardroom? We are also at risk of wiping out the division of responsibilities between companies and the authorities, because as soon as you sit in the board room, you have a responsibility for what is going on without necessarily having the qualifications to see through everything that is going on. As I have said several times, therefore, it does not seem to me to be the most precise answer to the challenges that are. I simply believe that there are other tools that we can use that address much more precisely the challenges that, among other things, have to be addressed. The scandal at Danske Bank has shown there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171646	It doesn't have to be a former politician. It must be the most suitable person to take account of the social concerns that exist. Now the Minister is drawing a dividing line between society and the private sector, but we all agree that the financial sector is special because it has a particular impact on the economy. We saw this also with the financial crisis. At any rate, I have heard the Minister say in the past that there is a particular responsibility here and that there is also a particular risk here. Today is also an historic day, because the Supreme Court has confirmed the judgment that has fallen on Capinordic's leadership, in other words three board members, who played such a role in the financial crisis. If there had been on that board a social representative who had only the interests of society in mind, it is not certain that Capinordic had acted as irresponsiblely as even the Supreme Court today has acknowledged that they have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171751	The judgment that has fallen today is of course interesting because it shows that there can be some rather harsh penalties for irresponsible board behaviour in Danish financial institutions, and it is as it should be that you can do so. But it's not because I have to turn myself into a judge. After all, there are others who have been appointed to do that. However, I am not convinced that social representatives would catch the type of behaviour that we want to combat, and that is why, as I said, we do not believe that this is a good response to the challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171827	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171833	I would really like to hear more from the Minister about the clear dividing line between a private sector and society. After all, the private sector and especially financial institutions have an enormous role to play in the economy and so on. That is why this proposal to say: what if there are some who are looking not only at how we run the business, but also how we perform our role in society and the responsibility we have thereby? How does the Minister think that it can be brought into the board of directors in a wiser way? There is no mention of politicians being on the boards. There is nowhere in the motion for a resolution that says that it is politicians who have to sit on the boards with social responsibility. It may be people who just have the role of asking how we run the best business for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115171922	As I said and announced on several previous occasions, I will soon come up with a series of proposals on how we believe we can address the challenges that are clearly in the financial sector. I'm not gonna do that today. I will when they're ready, and they'll be there soon. I also agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and Mr Lisbeth Poulsen. Rasmus Nordqvist has said that there is a special social responsibility when you are a large significant bank in Denmark. There is no doubt that it is an important role to have in society. It is also important that it is played well, which is why it is important that the people who sit on a board have the skills to run a bank. And there we are worried about the thoughts that have been there. When I mention this because it could be former politicians, it's because I've heard people say it along the way. Although it is not in the motion for a resolution, I have heard it in the debate that it is there that people have proposed. They were supposed to be role examples. It has even been put forward with great pathos: look here, you can't be against this. And we are against that. We think this is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172037	But does the Minister not agree that part of running a financial institution with as much power as one has is also to be of benefit to society and not just to the economic bottom line for shareholders? For example, when we have a Danske Bank with the power of its turnover, it also has a social responsibility, which should also be borne in mind when you run the business. And what is it like to ensure it? I can now hear that there will be a good solution at some point when the Minister presents something. In any case, I think that the Minister should take this proposal into his toolbox and see if this is in fact a good way to get society's interests into the boardroom as well. So yes, you make a positive economic bottom line, but you also create a positive bottom line for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172124	Yes, I fully agree that part of running a good bank is also to take responsibility for society, to make a positive contribution to society, to combat crime and, for example, not to remain passive in the face of money laundering, which is a serious crime. There is no disagreement about that. I think we all know that. As I said, we have some better ideas on how to combat it better than what lies in the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172153	Thank you, Minister. Then the time has come for us to hear what the rapporteurs have to say, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Erik Christensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172221	Thank you. As our rapporteur, Morten Bødskov, cannot be here today, I have promised to read his speech. The scandals in the financial sector are shaking everyone and we are witnessing a huge failure from parts of the financial sector. The social contract of which the financial sector is a part has been broken. In these days it is exactly 10 years since the Danish taxpayers had to guarantee more than 4,000 billion. kr. for the financial sector. A global collapse and extremely irresponsible behaviour by large Danish banks was the cause. The handshake that the financial sector gave a unified parliament is broken. It is quite clear that the Social Democratic Party did not expect the answer to the biggest economic rescue plan in Danish history to be a burst of new cases of banks' active aid to tax evasion for billions, attacks on community funds in the form of active aid to tax fraud, the world's biggest money laundering scandal and the investigation of large-scale money laundering cases in the country's two largest banks. That is also why the Social Democratic Party has put forward a number of proposals to strengthen control of the financial sector. This is serious. Trust in the financial sector is down. We need an efficient and well-functioning financial sector in a modern welfare society such as ours. Social democracy supports the intention of the motion for a resolution. We ourselves have proposed reintroducing public representatives on the boards of banks, but we have not yet adopted a final model. In the negotiations that are coming soon, we want to see whether there is any useful experience from other countries. Among other things, the FSA has itself highlighted the Dutch model, where representatives of the Dutch financial supervisory authority participate in board meetings in the financial sector. This allows for an early response to inappropriate management practices and prevents serious consequences of inappropriate management. This proposal is one of several that we will now be discussing in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172417	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172418	Thank you for the positive announcement. I am just a little surprised that you cannot support the proposal because you were clearly out to support it at the party congress this autumn and got a lot of headlines all around the media, for example. at Dr.dk: S will have public representatives back on bank boards. What has happened since September?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172448	It can be said that what has happened since September is that we have decided that we would like to examine whether there is experience from abroad and see if there are other models and experiences we can draw on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172502	Okay, but then it might have been very nice to have looked at some of the models before Parliament had to deal with this proposal. For now we actually had the chance to deal with it and a committee procedure, but I hope that the committee procedure will be used to ask the Minister to explain whether other models around us are known. There I think I am speaking on behalf of all the authors of the motion: we are not set on a specific model. We can just see that there is a need for a different type of supervision, where you look a little more over your shoulder and get a little more insight than you have done, because it has been found that in some cases the banks have at least given the wrong information to the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority. As the FSA chairman has said, we cannot check it; we need to have confidence in them. It's probably the trust that I think many people agree is hard to have now. Will the Social Democrats use this committee to clarify whether or not this is the right proposal? Because it is now, if I may say so, that the Folketing will have to deal with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172604	At any rate, I can say that we are looking forward to the committee reading and we would like to enter into constructive discussions on how, as I think the rapporteur said, we can actually ensure greater control of the banks in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172617	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172621	I am also surprised that the very offensive announcement, which was in September, that there should be public representatives on the banking boards, is being rejected today with some funny arguments. After all, there has been plenty of time to make its own proposal or to set a work in motion. The moment we come up with this proposal one could say that it is something that should be discussed in the conciliation circle, but we can hear that the Minister of Industry is against the spirit of the proposal, so it is not just the form. Unfortunately, it happens quite often that the Socialists are out to say something and when we have to discuss it in the Chamber, it does not happen. I am glad that the Social Democratic Party obviously wants to do this, but how is this going to happen? Should it be based on the fact that a concrete work is now being done in committee by looking at how to do it in different ways in other countries? ■ the material we have already got over at the Ministry of Business ■ or how to do it in order to achieve what a number of parties would like to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172740	In any case, the rapporteur's speech here shows that we ourselves have proposed reintroducing public representatives on the boards of banks, but we have not yet adopted a proper model. I think that is a very good answer in relation to what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172757	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172759	Does this mean that we could vote in favour of the motion for a resolution if it were merely to say that a majority of Parliaments are instructing the government to draft a proposal for public representatives on boards, because then it was not a very precise model that was put on the table? Or does this mean that the Socialists themselves are now going to start a job? Or what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172829	We'll take that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172833	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen from the Social Democratic Party, and welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115172843	Of course, one can understand the admiration of the authors of the motion that they cannot get a concrete 'yes' or 'no' to the motion for a resolution which the three parties have chosen to table here in the Folketing. We do not agree with the three authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is why the report by the Danish People's Party can at least sound clear and precise: we cannot support the motion for a resolution, and we cannot support the intention to introduce public representatives into private companies who have to sit there with different conditions and reasons than others who sit on the same boards. What is being proposed is that the social representatives concerned, who are to sit on the boards of the banks, should not be able to be sold at a general meeting. This means that the shareholders, the owners, of the companies in question, although they are in full agreement with all sorts of other things, cannot decide who should sit on their boards, and, according to the proposers, they must also sit there with extended powers in relation to breaching the current professional secrecy, which quite well follows, especially when it comes to banks, which are typically also on the Stock Exchange, and which typically can be traded to plus and minus each day. There we in the Danish People's Party believe that it will clearly be unfavorable for Danish shareholders and Danish companies and Danish banks if someone is to sit and in principle be able to influence the rise and decline of the shares, because some on the boards have the power to act in a different way. Then I know that it will be said that it is not something they have to do externally. No, but it's something that's gonna move anyway. The Danish People's Party is also of the clear conviction that with this proposal, if you had to implement it in reality, you would get something called A-members and something called B-members, by corporate boards. Nor is it something that we think is the right way to go. In fact, we think we can be familiar with the rules that have been implemented by November 2018 in relation to the tightening of the money laundering agreement and that, of course, we also have some stricter requirements in relation to the fit & proprietary rules, in relation to the fact that the people, the professionals who enter the banking boards, have a relevant financial knowledge of the job they undertake and are elected to do, that they have experience, that they have professional competence and that, of course, they fulfil all the proper requirements that are required to be approved to sit on a banking board. This is something that is also being enforced quite excellently today through the FSA and is being handled in a safe and sensible way. That is one of the reasons why we cannot support the proposal made by the parties. We also feel in the Danish People's Party that it might be more difficult in a possible trial if some have a confidentiality which is not the same as others. What if there comes a case where you have to find out who it is that has gone on with various information, i.e. about it, for example. are A members or B members of the Board of Directors, whether they are board members with extended competences, or are they board members with limited competences? We don't think that's the right way to do it, even if there are cases where you have to deal with these cases via the FSA or SØIK, the bailiff police, or others. I am and the Danish People's Party fully agrees that we need to tighten the legislation. We must also ensure that we have a better legal basis to come after the people who are criminals against Danish banking law and investor law and everything else, and this is done with legislation. This is not done by putting social representatives into private companies. We also hope, of course, that there will be a majority in favour of some of the initiatives that the Minister of Business, like opening up to us, will be able to see in the future that, even if you are employed in a bank and then become creative in your approach to it, you will not be able to drive that way. We can see, of course, in relation to many of the cases that have been taken • Roskilde Bank, Amagerbanken and others • that there are no bankers who have been convicted of it, and there may be several reasons for this. However, there will also be other cases in the future, and it is of course important that those who have violated the law should also be punished, whether they are employed in a bank or are not employed in a bank. But that does not mean that we are going to undermine the rights and duties of a Danish bank today. Because it works quite sensibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173416	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173420	The last statement by the rapporteur that it works quite sensibly in our financial sector, I believe that by now most people will not sign it. It is also a bit funny that there has been a very heated debate about what has happened, and the Danish People's Party has also participated and been very outraged, but when it becomes concrete, it is a little harder with action. I would just like to say that the rapporteur makes it sound as if it were a major attack on boards that there was a public representative or a requirement for the composition of the board. First of all, we have had that rule for the last 100 years in the history of Denmark, and it is longer than we haven't had it. Well, we're talking since the beginning of the 1900s. It has been gone for 15 years now, but by then it had been there for nearly 100 years. So it is not North Korea that we are proposing here. Secondly, we are also making demands, for example. employee representatives in larger companies. There we also go in and decide that there should be employee representatives on the board. So it is not unusual for such demands to be made. So now that we have got it down on the ground, what is the main reason why the Danish People's Party cannot support us getting this insight and this, if I may say so, representative who can sit a little on the shoulder and keep an eye on what is going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173540	First of all, thank you for the question. I really thought I spent all the time I had at my disposal explaining precisely why we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution, and I also think I specifically answered why we could not support it. We believe that it should be the ownership circle, that it should be the shareholders who decide who should sit on the board of directors, and that it should also be the owners who decide who should sit on the board of directors, as long as they comply with the legal regulations in this area, for example in relation to honesty requirements, suitability requirements, professional backgrounds, etc. So no one should enter with other rights less or more than others in the boardroom. There we have to hold on to the fact that those who sit on the board room and who sit on the board must be people appointed by the ownership circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173640	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173642	After all, financial institutions and banks have a special role to play. We have seen this after the financial crisis, and that is something that can affect the whole of society. I can basically follow the view that smaller companies should at least be able to put together their board of directors themselves, but we have seen, most recently with Danske Bank, how this behaviour has been able to influence the entire Danish economy. It is the financing costs of all banks that have increased due to Danske Bank's money laundering case, for example. Can we not, even with the view of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, say to some extent that the interests of society must be weighed down here, because the banks are, if I may say so, a systemic social institution, and that it is reasonable for society to have a representative to keep an eye on whether things are going in a proper way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173730	You could say that if it was something that could move something. My question could also go the other way in relation to the very serious cases we have had about money laundering and dividend tax cases etc. Wouldn't those cases have been there if there had been a public representative who happened to know someone who happened to know someone and who happened to have some professional skills, who also made it possible to be appointed to sit on a bank board without one being part of the bank board and without one being approved as someone who should sit there in relation to those who own the shares in the bank? It's not like that. So I don't buy the premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173807	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173811	I'm actually a little curious to hear Dansk Folkeparti about this, that it's the owner company that has to appoint the board. Does the Danish People's Party agree that what we are talking about here are some particular companies that have a very special impact on our society and therefore cannot necessarily be separated from our society? It's not just about making money. In fact, they also have a function that we, as a society, have given them. And therefore there is a need to think society into the leadership that is also happening in a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173845	Yes, but it can be said that those premises must apply to all types of companies in principle. I fully understand that if you take Danish banks, they are in a special situation, also in relation to vulnerability, and in relation to that they take up so much. They're filling up more than our state finances, and so on. Anyway, the alternative, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist himself participates in and represents, has after all been out to say that there should be public representatives on many other types of boards too. And the rapporteur on that proposal said that if they did not have the right competences, they could simply be sent on course. And there we just don't think in the Danish People's Party that you can send people on the course because they happen to be fortunate enough to be appointed by the authorities to sit on the board of a private company. We maintain that they must comply with all fit & proprietary rules. There must be integrity and suitability and they must respect all things in relation to the requirements that we make in money laundering law and tax law and in relation to management responsibility and everything else. But it must therefore be the owners of the bank who decide who should sit on the board of the bank in question, period.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173954	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115173956	What I'm curious about is the responsibility that you also have as a company in addition to making money for your owners. And that is really what I am asking, i.e. whether the Danish People's Party agrees that these companies we are talking about, the companies on which this proposal is based, have a special social responsibility and therefore need a different focus than just making money for their owners. And the reason why I am asking about it is that I would like to hear the Danish People's Party's reply to: How do we do better now that we have been able to look at cases that show that there have been some boards that have apparently not been the responsibility of the community grown up? So how do we do it if we don't have this proposal? Does the Danish People's Party have good solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174033	After all, we have not tabled a motion for a resolution. And I am starting from the proposal that we are now dealing with first. You can choose to laugh about that, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. But when I have things that I put forward for the Danish People's Party, I will put them down here and have them dealt with in the order in which they might come. What I am dealing with specifically is a motion for a resolution which seeks to attack private companies and which seeks to determine from the outside who is to sit on a board of directors of a company owned by shareholders. And the Danish People's Party cannot agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174109	In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174116	Thank you. The alternative, Enhedslisten and SF want to get social representatives back on the boards of financial institutions, and they should aim to report suspicious and illegal behaviour to the Minister, the FSA or SØIK. The proposers propose that in a new legislation, social representatives should be given greater powers and the opportunity to inform the authorities. Let me just say that in the Left we do not support the proposal, because it is a return to and extension of a regime that was abolished in 2002. It has been 17 years, and without having been a member of parliament in 2002, I understand that one of the reasons at that time was that there was no real evidence that a representative appointed by the state promoted responsibility on the boards of financial institutions, and therefore those representatives were abolished. Of course, this must also be seen in the light of the fact that, in particular, the demands we have made in recent years have made quite different demands on our financial institutions. But let me just say, and it is also in relation to the debate that has been going on so far, that it sounds as if there were no problems in the financial sector when there were social representatives on the boards. But without having done such a great review, I can remember from my childhood that 6. Juli Bank went bankrupt, and I also believe that Midtbank and Kronebank went bankrupt even while there were representatives appointed by the state on the boards of directors. So perhaps I think that the debate is going on on a rather biased basis, because it seems that if only the state appoints a couple of representatives, everything is in the best order. At least that's what history shows it hasn't been. I understand the reason for the motion for a resolution, and I fundamentally share it in the light of the actions we have witnessed in the run-up to and during the financial crisis. They were light-headed and they were blindfolded and took very, very high risks and accepted to be involved in activities with people who had absolutely no control over their so-called customer knowledge procedure. And there have been laundering scandals and everything else we've spent so much time on. I basically agree that we have a common task in combating the best possible way. I also think that, for the sake of completeness, it should be said that it is not the case that we in the Danish Parliament have been sitting on our hands. In fact, we have taken a large number of initiatives to protect the financial sector from these matters, and it is not because it is a pity for the financial sector, but because it is a pity for all of us, because if the financial sector is running without taking the necessary responsibility, it is not just the shareholders of a bank that are paying the price, but it is all of us, because banks and financial institutions are very important for our economy and a bank crash can shake an otherwise functioning economy. Of course, we are making very special demands on banks and financial institutions precisely because they are so important to our economy. In particular, the requirement of suitability and integrity for the members of the Board of Directors is central to the board of directors. We, as a society, need to make sure that those elected are people who have a conscience in order and have the skills necessary to contribute to the responsible running of businesses. And as the Minister for Business and Industry also said, this is not a task that we are pursuing, and there is more to it. We are, of course, looking forward to this from the Left, because we need effective legislation on financial companies in Denmark. They are important to the economy and they are central to ensuring that capital is available to companies so that they can invest and create jobs. However, as I have said, they also have a great deal of scope, and that is why we are making tough demands on them to ensure that they are robust, so that wrong decisions can also be made, because this is done in companies without any major consequences. That is why they must be much better upholstered today than before. And, as I said, this is not a process in which we can say that we are in the finish line. It is a process that we continue. As I said and in order to round off, there is no real evidence in my view that social representatives should be the eternal blissful solution. We haven't been sitting on our hands, and neither are we. That is why our conclusion in the Left is that we cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I have promised to welcome my colleagues in the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives and to announce that they do not support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174634	In other words, it is on behalf of all the governing parties. That's great. But it did give rise to a question from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174641	Then we'll see if you can answer for all three parties! Looking back at history, it is true that when you had these social representatives, there were bank crashes and scandals. And it's hard to know if there would have been more during that period if you hadn't had them. But what was also the case at the time was that it was people without any particular competence who sat in these banks, and that is where we have changed it with this proposal, so that there should be people who have expertise and who, moreover, can live up to these rules of suitability. When it was abolished in 2002, it was based on a story about • if you read the debate from then on that it had lived itself out, because now there was a good governance structure in place, and there was more openness and transparency in the financial sector, and therefore you could just as well have confidence that you no longer needed these public representatives. That was one of the arguments. So my question is really just, and perhaps it can be seen polemically, and perhaps it is also: have the banks shown themselves to have earned the confidence that they were shown by removing this supervision that the public representatives were supposed to exercise during the period since 2002?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174801	No, there are quite clear examples that things have not been right. And we can each guess what the world would have looked like if the rules had been different. We can have a big guessing contest about that, and it's probably hard to say what's the ultimate truth there. Let me just add to my justification for the rejection by saying that I could have the fear that if you have social representatives who then approve a decision, then it is good, then it is fine. I think that is a very, very important responsibility to put on those representatives. I am therefore more confident that it is the Financial Supervisory Authority which, in their ongoing supervision, is in charge of assessing: are there the right policies? Are there the right control mechanisms? Do you have the right risk monitoring? And there I think we are better off, in that this task lies clearly with the FSA and not with publicly appointed representatives on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174859	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174901	The latter, I think, is actually a relevant objection, which I have also thought about myself, i.e. how this, if you get such a representative, will affect a possible position of responsibility. And I really think it would be interesting if we could get the Minister to reflect on it in committee, because as I said, I think that is actually a relevant objection. But I would just like to ask specifically: does the rapporteur not think that, after all, there could have been a chance in relation to some of the cases we have seen, for example. The Danske Bank case, where we know that some of these suspicious circumstances have been reported to the board, that if someone had been sitting there who knew that it was his responsibility to be awake when this kind of thing came, maybe we could have intervened earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115174953	I guess it's conjecture and something a little hypothetical to come along with. And I mean, and I'm really glad that Enhedslisten himself is reflecting on the fact that we should be careful that we are not going to deprive the board of its primary responsibility through legislation from Christiansborg. For it is the Board of Directors which is responsible for running the company, appointed by the shareholders. At any rate, I can have the fears that I am so pleased that Enhedslisten can well see the relevance of considering putting public representatives in, then the responsibility is not so clear. And I think that what is very much needed here is that there is a clear division of responsibilities, that we know who needs to be looked at in the seams, also in relation to sanctions, if things have not gone according to the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175045	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Speaker's chair is available. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175054	Thank you. For the alternative, it is important that we dare to discuss and set limits on power in boards. It is both private and public, and, of course, the interests of society should be fully represented here. Because I think it is important to focus on the fact that behind every successful private company there is therefore a strong society. Because that's how they run their business, and that's how they make their money. That is why I think it is perfectly logical to ask how we can then ensure that a company, and especially financial institutions, which have such an impact on society, fulfils the responsibility that we give them when we say that we are a society and that we are actually helping to ensure that they can earn their money. How do they live up to the responsibility to society that we can expect? That is something we need to ask ourselves. In the past, we have been out to propose a really quite comprehensive and longer proposal than this proposal, namely that it should actually be a bourgeois ombud to sit on these boards, just as if you were going to be a judge and so on. Then you could be appointed as a social representative on boards, both public and private. After all, it is to start discussing how we look at companies. In other words, the private sector is not such a small size for itself; it is a completely integrated part of civil society, of the public sector, that is, part of our community, and it must of course be taken into account in the work of the boards of directors. I just don't believe that we can ask a board to both make a lot of money for its shareholders and at the same time sit with the hat on which it says: How do we also make the best possible for society? There we think it is sensible to ask how we can appoint some people who can sit with the particular knowledge and go into that work with the very best of society as the main objective. So I am actually glad that we have put forward this proposal, even though I can hear now that it is not something that is a jubilant majority in favour. In any case, I hope that this proposal will help to start a committee work and a greater discussion of how we can ensure it. I can hear that the Minister is doing some work, and I look forward very much to seeing what it is like to ensure the quite natural social responsibility of private enterprise and, in particular, as a financial institution. Compared to the power you have, how do you work and live it out? I look forward to seeing that, and at least I look forward to further work, because I hope that this proposal can be a bit of a lever for the discussion to be a little deeper and a little wider in the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175330	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175342	Thank you very much. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for holding on to an absolutely necessary debate on how we can prevent and avoid the kind of money laundering and other forms of financial crime that we have unfortunately experienced far too much. On the radical side, we understand the intentions and the desire to do this better, but yet we cannot support the resolution as it stands, and the primary reason for this is in all simplicity that we do not really believe that it will work. We do not believe that putting a social representative on a board of directors could have had any significant effect, for example. in the Danske Bank case, which has been used as an example here today, and it is for the simple reason that if in a bank there are evil forces, if I may say so, either in part of the bank or in the management of the bank or elsewhere, we are quite convinced that one would also be able to avoid the social representative who is there. Then say, among other things: Mr. Pelle Dragsted that it has come to light that there is some information, for example. in the Danske Bank case, which has gone to the board of directors, but as I understand it, the same information has also arrived at the FSA, which has been reassured, after which nothing has happened. So you have to believe that the sharpness of this representative of society, for example. in this case, should have struck the overall capacity of both the other board members and the FSA in this area. I'm just using that as an example, because it's more anecdotal, but it's also just to say that it's an incredibly difficult task if there's crime going on in a huge group, de facto to see it through and gain insight into it, especially if someone wants to hide it. That is why we do not believe that there is one, even if, of course, it should be a highly gifted and well-trained and in the area of specialized capacity, in itself could make the big difference unfortunately. We believe that one of the things that can make a difference is that we are increasing the level of penalties, and we have already done so in terms of the financial penalty for the institution, but one of the things that we want to look into when we are going to debate new measures is also the personal liability of the people who make decisions in the banks and in the financial sector. Then you could ask, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen did, whether it can harm to do so, so it cannot be very nice to have, even if you are not sure that it will work? The problem is that I think that we are actually running into a grey area here, which is described almost in the resolution, namely that such a social representative must be a hundred percent member of the board with access to all the information and with responsibility for the decisions that are then actually taken, and hence also legally responsible, as I could also understand from the Minister one had been in the old days; because if you sit on the board, you have access, you are also responsible, of course. At the same time, however, the motion for a resolution wants them to be almost the extended arm of the FSA into the board of directors, a kind of observer or a looker. I cannot quite see where it puts the law, the practical implementation of the proposal, but I do not think it is entirely on the flat plate how this person will be legally held accountable to both a shareholder and to taking decisions and accountable to a financial supervision or a social interest, in other words two different legal responsibilities at once. We therefore believe, although we fully agree with the authors of both the wish and the will to do something about this, that we stand by having a clear separation between those who have the legal responsibility for the legal person, namely the individual group, and those who put up the legislative framework and take seriously the social responsibility for the operation that needs to be done, both by the general regulation of the financial sector, but also by making quite tough and strict legislation that penalises it here, including with some tools that we have not had before. We believe that this will provide greater clarity and perhaps also, in the end, better opportunities to come after those people who, nevertheless, break the rules and yet favour themselves at the expense of all other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175819	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175823	When this scheme was abolished in 2002, the Radical Left voted against and wanted it to continue. There is something strange about this, I think, after the intervening period of a financial crisis, a history-of-the-art money laundering scandal, a profit tax scandal and a large number of tax canals, that is to say, after that development, we have changed our minds to the opposite of what was thought at the time. Now it is believed that society no longer needs greater insight into and control of what is going on in the financial sector. For me, there is something inverse in the development of the Radical Left on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175909	It is true that 17 years ago the Radical Left voted differently. We have also had a very thorough discussion in our parliamentary group on this matter, and I shall not hide that because, as I said, we fully support the intention. And that is not because we do not want greater insight into and greater control of the sector. It is simply because we believe that this is best achieved by means other than those proposed by the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175934	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115175936	All due respect for that. As I said, I do not feel in any way that this should be the model we are presenting. I also understand some of the challenges identified by the rapporteur. But what about e.g. the model that they have, according to what I have heard, in the Netherlands, where the FSA is present, so does one, if I may say so, have a presence at board meetings of the major SIFI institutions, but is not a real member of the board? It's a different model. Is this a model that the Radical Left has considered as an opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115180014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115180015	In fact, we have not had the opportunity to discuss this in our group yet, so I dare not say yes or no to it. In other words, we will, of course, take a thorough look at all the rather thorough notes from the FSA and the various models that have been put in place, so I will not deny in advance that there may be something to be retrieved there, for example. the Dutch model, which we have not yet taken a position on, as I have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115180040	With that, we thank Mr. Martin Lidegaard. And there is still a rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party who has to go before Mr. Pelle Dragsted is coming in, so here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115180103	Today is a historic day. This has not caused much attention, but the Supreme Court has upheld a verdict against the management of the Capinordic Bank, and this is the first time that the Supreme Court has taken a stand in the court case in the wake of the financial crisis. After the financial crisis, we discussed very much what we should do and how we should avoid that happening again. There were increased capital requirements and a number of other tools such as amended legislation were put into use. We have also negotiated with Danske Bank on top of the biggest money laundering scandal in world history, and I would also like to thank the Minister for Business Affairs for the approach that has been well along the way. This testifies to the fact that the Minister of Business is taking this very seriously. In 2015 a rather interesting book was published, which in Danish came to be called "Swimming with sharks" and which was written by a Dutch journalist who spoke to over 200 financiers in the City of London and tried to understand what a culture had done, that things had escalated both on Wall Street and in the City of London and actually in many places in the world. He came to the conclusion that it was not the individual and the choice that the individual had made, but that it was simply a culture that had escalated over the years when there were no stopping blocks, and where there might be one place sat some geeks and made financial products, and another place some who had to sell as many of these products as possible to make the most money. They did not really understand what kind of financial weapons of mass destruction were in their hands. So his conclusion was that it was the combination of these toxic products, the lack of regulation and the lack of understanding in the outside world for what was actually going on inside this relatively closed system, and then a culture that just over time escalated, which allowed you to finally see how wrong things went. So it was more the faults of the system than that of the individual. In the wake of the Danske Bank scandal there has of course been some focus on some individuals: What did the chairman do, what did the director do, etc. etc.? Of course, there is individual responsibility, and we have also tightened up the legislation on this, but it is primarily about what kind of culture it is and what sort of built-in mechanisms are in the financial institutions, especially with the shareholder culture that has come and with the quarterly capitalism that makes you as owner expect short-term results, high returns and high yields. We can see that Danske Bank, which was rescued by the Danish taxpayers, in the very same year when they were saved with bank packages, let these things take place in Estonia. And, ironically, it was with warnings from the Russian central bank, from whistleblowers and from others. There has simply been a culture in which this has not been taken seriously enough or where short-term considerations have weighed most heavily. It has also emerged that when the top management of Danske Bank realized how serious it was in Estonia, it was not hastened to shut it down, for it was an incredibly profitable department. That is why the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative and Enhedslisten and the SF is not aimed at a few individual bath applications. I mean, it's not directed at the individual board members who don't have the morals. It's about someone sitting in the boardroom saying, "Now things are getting out of hand, now you're not living up to the law." They must have privileged access to the Minister and must be able to say in the first place not in public: I think there is something that needs to be looked at. It may also be for the FSA, they should be able to say it. Everyone says there's gonna be a new financial crisis. That's what everyone says. I cannot really understand why we should take it as such a natural thing and that it is as natural as gravity that it will happen again. We need to be involved, and the Minister of Industry has also said so, a well-regulated financial sector. In conclusion, I would just like to say that there have been enough who will not support this resolution. I hope that the Minister for Industry, either in the conciliation circle or elsewhere, will come up with some other proposals instead of this. I talked to Pelle Dragsted about that too. I mean, does it have to be someone from the SEC who's sitting with or not? This isn't an unknown territory. We had it for almost 100 years until 2002, and you also have it in other countries where there are some, because these are not just private companies. It is the financial sector which, at worst, has the potential to destroy our entire economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115180650	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115180704	Thank you very much, and first of all thank you to the Minister for having dealt with the proposal and for having used his Christmas holiday to read Enhedslisten's financial sector proposal. That's a wonderful piece of information to get. I can think of more fun ways to spend your Christmas vacation. So far so good. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the parties for their general positive reception of the intentions of the proposal. There is no majority in favour of the proposal, and that is a pity. You can sometimes sit a little with a feeling that a very strong rhetoric about the banks is being used, but that it is a little difficult when it comes to concrete action. And of course also special thanks to the co-sponsors of the Alternative and SF for helping to make this proposal together with Enhedslisten. I will return later to a few of the objections that have been raised but, as has been said, the proposal has been put forward in the light of what we have seen in recent years in the financial sector, first of all, a financial crisis with a large number of very far-reaching consequences for our society in terms of hundreds of thousands of jobs lost and a permanent loss of prosperity, which, of course, was largely triggered by a deeply irresponsible behaviour in our financial sector, and then a series of scandals. I do not think I need mention them here. It's everything from money laundering to profits to tax havens. This simply shows that the confidence that has been shown in the financial sector has not been met. Somehow it also seems that there is a broad political consensus that we cannot continue to build on trust, but that we need to have more supervision and more control over the financial sector. That is, in fact, the purpose of this proposal, namely to have stronger supervision of the financial sector. In concrete terms, the proposal is that we should again appoint public representatives to the boards of the large financial companies. As has also emerged from the debate, this is something we actually had for almost 100 years until it was abolished by the Fogh Government in 2002. The reason for abolishing it at the time was, according to the draft law, that progress towards more openness and greater transparency has made it unnecessary. After all, it was a time when you might have had a lot of confidence in this, that the markets did it all on their own. Looking at the developments that have taken place since then, I honestly believe that there are many Danes who find it difficult to recognise the characteristics of the financial sector, i.e. a financial sector characterised by openness and transparency. That is why I believe that most people would actually agree that it was probably a rather naive approach to the financial sector over these years, which led to the abolition of this rule on public representatives on the board of directors. One cannot help wondering whether we could actually have been in addition to some of the bank crashes and scandals that we have seen, if the Fogh government had not at that time by a very narrow majority trumped through that public representatives should be thrown out of the banking boards. Had public representatives in e.g. Perhaps the Amagerbanken or Roskilde Bank raised their voices against some of the very risky behaviour of the banks in the run-up to the financial crisis? Could a public representative at Danske Bank perhaps have intervened in better time or had the FSA intervene against the historical money laundering scandal, which is currently costing us all money because the entire Danish financial sector has increased their financing costs? That is certainly not unlikely, and I think it is absolutely in favour of reintroducing it. The model that was up to 2002 had some weaknesses. There was a vague description of the task of the social representatives. They were covered by excessive professional secrecy. Of course, one must be covered by a general obligation of professional secrecy, but it was a confidentiality which also hampered their information to the authorities. And there was no demand for special professionalism. It was a clear weakness of that model, and therefore it is also possible that it has not had the effect it wanted. But that is why we are actually proposing a new and wiser model. There have been some objections here. I think the most relevant objection that has been raised came from the rapporteur of the Left and, as such, from the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and is about this question: if you appoint members of a board, you risk to some extent that the banks will be able to push some responsibility that way in the event that there are problems? Well, one could say: well, there was a public representative, so that's where it is, isn't there the responsibility for not having discovered this? I think that is a relevant objection, which I think would be exciting to get the Minister to deal with in committee, and perhaps we can ask a question as to how the legal situation will be in that situation. The question has also been asked: why not all sorts of other industries? I think it was the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Yeah, well, we also make demands on boards in other industries in the form of e.g. employee representatives, but there is, of course, the fact that the financial sector is a special part of our economy, and we have seen that. That is also why you have to have a licence to operate a bank and that you can have a licence to operate a bank; it is, of course, from the recognition that the financial sector is not like the rest of the private sector. It has a completely different systemic impact on the economy as such, and fortunately there has also been a broader recognition of this in recent months. I can see that there is no majority in favour of the proposal. I am, of course, sorry that the Social Democrats, who themselves have been out to plead for it in public, cannot support the proposal immediately. I hope that this is not an expression of such a general drift in relation to the need to intervene harder on the issues that have affected the financial sector; I think that would be a real shame. And I hope that the committee procedure will be used to try to find answers to some of the uncertainties on the part of the Social Democrats in relation to the proposal and that, when it finally comes to the vote, it may be possible to vote in favour of the proposal. However, as I have said, and there I think I am speaking on behalf of all the authors of the motion for a resolution, we do not have such a very tough attitude that it should be knitted together exactly as we propose. We are very open to looking at other models, including for example. the Dutch model, where, as far as I am aware, it is a representative of the FSA who sits on the boards of the major systemic banks, if we cannot get through with the proposal we are making here. But thank you for a good debate. We look forward to continuing in the coming months the debate on the framework for the financial sector and on the need for more structural reforms in our financial sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115181428	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115181444	We are opening the debate, and that is what we are doing with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115181506	Thank you. When we, as a society, look at parental authority and the rules of association, we do so in the first place because there are children in connection with divorces, where parents have to find out who should have the primary responsibility for these children and how parents should be family for these children in the future. Unfortunately, our legislation also means that, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, over the decades that we have had divorces as a relatively significant part of our society, too much attention has been paid to parents and too little consideration for the child. We believe that this state of affairs should be turned upside down so that where the best interests of the child collide with the best interests of the parents, as it were, the parents have a duty to give way. It must always be the case that what is society's absolute only concern is to stand on the side of children, because whether a mother and father divorce or not divorce or what they do, if they weren't mother and father, if they were just two adult people, society can be relatively indifferent to that. It may be a pity for the parents who may be lovers' sorrows that may be anything else, but they are adults, and they can find out for themselves. But when there are children in between, it is the responsibility of the community. The children have no opportunity to stand guard on their own rights. Children are not able to protect themselves from the scars that it can give on the soul to stand in the midst of a divorce, and therefore society must step in. Having said all that, it is actually the introduction to say that the legislation of 2007 did the wrong thing, and it has taken incredibly many years to really get that part right. And I believe that the bill we have here does exactly that. Before the legislation of 2007, as we were, of course, a supporting part of the law, so it's not to blame all sorts of others, it was kind of us who were involved in it, but it's just to say it was that it was Mom who had custody and Dad was a weekend father. In fact, this was the case in most families, and that is to say, where there was either serious violence, murder or incest, the gender balance was as unequal as it is today. These are men who are in prison for such things, which is why it was automatically before 2007 that Mom had custody and Dad was in prison. It is, of course, roughly set up. I know that there are women who have committed murder, and I know that there are women who have committed incest, and I know that there were also men who had custody at that time, but that was actually exactly how it was, that is, that it was women who had custody and the men who were in prison, right? After 2007 it was then changed, and it became that the parents, as a starting point, had custody together, and that both parties as a starting point were entitled to association. Now, that is precisely not the case in those families where there is a party that has committed murder, gross violence, incest or the like, and yet it came to be the case that the legislation put the child in a position where the party that had committed all these terrible things actually had custody. We actually discovered that pretty quickly after the law had been changed. It was some of the very first cases that ran in this area, and yet it has taken more than ten years to change again. It says a little bit about the fact that when you make legislation in this area, you have to think carefully, because it takes a long time to change it again, and it does, because it is very, very sensitive matter, and therefore most parties should preferably be involved in doing so. That's why every stone has to be turned around. One intervenes very far into the families when one does so, and therefore one may think that things are quite inappropriate just when one has changed it. It's gonna be 10 years anyway. So you have to think carefully. Now we are here, and we have thought carefully. We are dealing with legislation that has been under way for at least four to five years. We are dealing with the broadest possible majority we can possibly deliver in the Folketing. I think that is quite a solid foundation on which to stand. And then it gets like this again, you could say, as it was before 2007, to deal with a parent who has committed murder, or who has committed very serious violence or incest, then, as before 2007, the parent automatically doesn't have a lot of people yelling at him in arms and saying: ho, ho, so it may be that there are examples of it. Yeah, that's why it's called "as a starting point." It's the automatics that get turned upside down. Those little words are incredibly important, and in this case the words are basically those used in the case that a double murderer who has committed incest and gross violence has suddenly become an angel and a fantastic parent. You've heard of it in American movies, so it's safe. And that's why it's written as a starting point in the legislation. I'm sure that's true too. It's safe. And that is why, of course, the legislation must be based on it. It could be that it existed, and therefore there must of course be the possibility that if it is the child's best interest to be with a parent who has committed such serious crime, then it must of course be possible, but the automatic must be that a child should of course not put his back on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182028	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. And welcome to Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182037	Thank you. Now I do not have to say anything at all, because now Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil has said all the good things that were to say. And I totally agree. What a strange thing it is that parents have the right to their child. The child is the innocent, the child has not chosen his parents himself, and yet it is just the parents who have a greater right than the child. So I am completely in line with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil when she says that it is of course the child's right to the parents and not the parents' right to the child that we are dealing with here today. And as was also said: well, why has it taken so long to change this? That's unbelievable, I think. We have heard several stories about children who are forced to have association with a violent parent, a parent who has beaten the other parent, etc. etc. But it's a good thing we got here. It has been a long, exciting and fantastic journey, you can really say. And I would like to confess that I am very proud to stand here today and to be rapporteur on this very subject, because I think that this is something that has been torn up until several times. As a society, we have a duty to look after the best interests of the child and to look after our children, and we in the Folketing have a duty to create the framework that allows us to take care of the children and the best interests of the child out there. And yes, there are exceptions in the legislation, and that also makes sense, because the intention here is not to harm the child, and one could do so if there is really a good relationship between a murderer and a child. It feels weird to say it, but it could actually happen. That is why, of course, we have made an exception or, as has been said, that is the starting point, but there could be exceptions. So let us just make it absolutely clear: if you are a murderer or have committed incest or other gross violence, you have renounced the right to be a parent or have association with your child. And then it's not anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182236	You're welcome, and welcome, sir. Hans Andersen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182249	If there's anyone we need to take care of in this society, it's the kids, and I think we can all agree on that. This also applies to yes, perhaps especially when deciding whether the child is best placed to be with or without his mother or father. It may be a difficult decision, but nevertheless a very important decision. It is essential for the individual child's life that we make the right decision in matters of custody, association, etc., and therefore it is absolutely crucial that the law is always on the child's side when decisions are made as to whether a parent should be an active part of the child's life. I think we'll make sure of that with this bill. We put a clear alarm bell in the legislation, which means that if you are convicted of serious, perilous crime, for example. killing or incest, it is not, as a rule, best for the child that this parent is given custody or otherwise is an active part of the child's life. It is all very well that the safety and well-being of the child should always be placed above other considerations. It has to be quite clear, and it will do so with this bill. Of course, there may be exceptional cases where a parent has been convicted of serious, perilous crime, but it is nevertheless assessed that the child is best placed to maintain a relationship with the parent concerned. This also allows the draft law, if it is based on an in-depth assessment. The important thing is that the law takes a clear stand on the child's side, and I think we will ensure that with this bill. With those words, the Left supports the bill, and I should also like to say on behalf of the Conservatives that they also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182439	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen, and welcome to Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182458	Today we are dealing with an important amendment to the parental responsibility law, a change designed to strengthen the protection of children and put their best interests first in matters of association, where one parent has been convicted of serious, perilous crime. The bill establishes a presumption that it cannot be for the child's benefit as a rule, that a parent convicted of serious, perilous crime has custody, association or that the child is resident with the parent. With L 137, we ensure, among other things, that in families with violence it is not the violent parent who should argue that the condemned parent should not have relations with his child. On the other hand, the reply is reversed, so that a concrete assessment must prove that contact with the child would be the best thing for the child in such a situation. This would therefore be an exception whereby a concrete assessment of what is for the child's good and where both the child's relationship with the parent concerned and the child's interest in maintaining contact should be included. In addition, it must also include whether the child has witnessed the crime for which the parent has been convicted. When Enhedslisten has said that we will vote in favour of this proposal, it is in order to protect, among others. children in battered families. If one parent has committed violence against the other or others in the family, there is a presumption that association with the perpetrator is not best for the child's best interests. However, I would like to emphasise that we do not want to take part in the proposal in which the parental responsibility law is used to punish people twice. It must be consideration for the child that counts, and petty crime or for that matter gross violence should not automatically count towards being a bad parent. That is why this proposal is only about personal criminality, which has led to prison, not everything else. The Minister's statement in the press has therefore also been a little strange to witness. The Minister has among other things: said that gang members can't be good parents, and of course that's bullshit. Either way, the parental responsibility law should not be used as a double penalty. Punishment for crime will be dealt with in the criminal code. This is about the children and the children's best interests. That this will also be the result of the legislation will be guaranteed, and that is why we are also asking a number of questions in the legislative process. All in all, however, L 137 is a step in the right direction, which is why the Enhedslisten can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182724	Thank you for that and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182730	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is, of course, fully in line with the previous rapporteurs. Just as Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil outlined, it is the child's best interests and the entire reverse automation, which is a really sensible turn of thought, which we have started on, where we have the child's best interests in mind, and we are trying to get away from, and we have also discussed this in other areas of this group of rapporteurs, the rights of parents, and we are moving away from the best interests of parents, but we are looking at the child's best interests. Denmark is a pioneer country when it comes to putting the child first. We are listening to children to a much greater extent than many other countries, and we must, of course, continue the good work we are doing to strengthen the rights of children and the voice of children. This is a step in the right direction and, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182835	Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182841	Thank you. In fact, I also think that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil had this presented very, very fine, so I would just like to say that it is clear that the alternative supports that a child should not be with a parent who has committed serious personal crime. In other words, there must never be any doubt that in the alternative, as we see with all other social rapporteurs in the Folketing, we always put the child's best and right to well-being and protection above all else in legislation that has an impact on children's lives. That is why we are actually pleased that exceptions can be made if it is for the benefit of the child, that is, that a child can, exceptionally, have association with a parent who has committed this crime if a concrete and in-depth assessment shows that it is the best for the child. Then we think that consideration for the child is perfectly consistent in this bill, and that is why we are very happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182944	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and welcome to Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115182959	I believe that the series of legislative proposals that we are dealing with this winter, which deal with children in divorce situations, are some of the longest-time legislative proposals being drafted under pre-treatment. This has been done in an extremely good cooperation between all nine parties in the Parliamentary Social Committee, and I would just like to acknowledge and say here that it has been a pleasure to be involved in the cooperation that has been there. Despite all our differences, we have been able to gather together on what is at the very heart of the general legislation in this area, namely that the child is at the heart and that what is decided is for the best of the child and not for the good of anyone else. It is an absolutely central shift in the view that has been expressed about divorce, not because so far we have wanted to do things wrong, but because we have done it as well as we have been able to do and from the point of view that we thought was applicable at the time. However, experience has just shown that a great many children have got caught when parents have had to be at the center. That is why it is a great pleasure to deal with this legislation, and I can stress to the citizens of the country that the Committee on Social Affairs has actually worked very, very seriously to obtain and study the experience of other countries in the world and have been studying in Norway etc. to find out how best to deal with the challenge it is to say: The starting point is what is for the child's good. There are therefore situations where it is the community and thus society that have to take care of the child because the adults who are around the child and who should be able to do so are unable to do so by unhappy circumstances. Then the community and society must step in and take responsibility. This is also what we are doing in this context, and it has become a very central, fundamental point of departure from the legislation on divorce, regardless of which heading we otherwise give it, that all decisions must be for the best of the child. We must follow this closely, because the way in which it is implemented in society is also done in new ways. I am also looking forward to doing this together with those I have now come so close to in connection with our cooperation on this issue. I would like to sign for that, and I wish you every success in fulfilling the ambitions we are putting forward with this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183223	Thank you. And welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183229	Thank you. After all, this proposal is part of an overall agreement which the entire Folketing, including the SF, supports on a new family justice system and some amendments to the parental responsibility law. The starting point of this agreement is that decisions taken in family matters must be taken on the basis of one general consideration: what is for the child's good. This is an important starting point, which is also leaning on the principles set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to ensure the security, development and rights of children and, above all, to protect them from violence and abuse. Over the past few years, we have received international criticism from among others. The UN Women's Committee and the Council of Europe for not being good enough to protect victims of violence and children in homes with violence, for example. when deciding on parental responsibility and association. This bill is designed to protect children in family law against abuse. In deciding on parental authority or association, this amendment to the parental responsibility law will be based on the premise that if a parent has committed serious personal crimes such as manslaughter or sexual assault and has received an unconditional sentence, that parent will not be able to obtain custody and association as a starting point. But if you consider that it is for the child's best to maintain a relationship with that parent, it will be abandoned. Taking children out of contact with their parents is serious, and therefore it should only be in the best interests of the child. It must therefore not be used as a double penalty, but only to protect the child. Therefore, it must also be possible for a child to have association with the parent who has committed serious personal crime if it is the best thing for the child to do even if this change of law changes the starting point of those cases. For what matters is whether the parent can be caring and a development-supporting adult in the child's life. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183434	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. And then we've reached the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183449	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for receiving the bill here in the Danish Parliament. I think it is quite fantastic that it is a legislative proposal that has the support of all the parties in the Folketing. And that is, as Mrs Marianne Jelved said, following on from the discussions we had on the Family Court House and the whole family justice system, which comes into force here per year. April 1st, and where focus has been on the child's best interests and the child's best. So there must never be any doubt that a decision must be taken for the child's good, and that is why we have long since written into the law on parental responsibility, and we have emphasized this in the instructions of the Ministry, and yet we see cases where a parent, for example, convicted of murder or incest, is given custody or has association. That is why we have a legislative proposal which should actually be superfluous, but which is nevertheless so important, because there must never be any doubt about the possibility of protecting the child and the obligation to put the child's consideration at the top when a parent has committed very serious personal crimes. I am, of course, at the disposal of any questions that the committee may have during the committee's deliberations, and I would just like to say in conclusion that I have no doubt that this will have a very, very important impact on the children it concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183619	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments at this stage, so they have to come to committee. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183640	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183702	Thank you. The Minister is almost going to confuse me completely before I take the floor on this proposal by indicating that we were going to have a major debate on this. The reality is that the proposal we have just debated, although we do not disagree on it, has incredibly far-reaching and very, very positive effects on the children involved, contrary to this bill. It may well be that we can have a major debate on this bill, but we must not speculate about it in this way, but it is completely devoid of content, because it is all about the fact that when you resign the State Administration, you will have to move the things that are in the State Administration into the new one, otherwise it will no longer be there. So you can have a long discussion about pro-form marriages... it's usually such words that can get the whole Parliament hall on fire... but right here you don't change the content... It supports the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183802	Thank you for that and welcome to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183808	It would come as a very big surprise if we could argue about this proposal very long and I can also just announce that the Danish People's Party of course supports us moving the unit to the Family Court House.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183820	Thank you. And welcome to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183827	Thank you. I have to say that the Left supports what the previous rapporteurs have said. We also support the bill. I must also inform you, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183845	That was the shortest rapporteur's speech so far. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20190115183852	Our rapporteur, sir. Søren Søndergaard, who has otherwise dealt with the agreement that has previously been about pro-form marriages, cannot be here, so I have the honour. After all, this bill is a follow-up to the agreement that all of the Danish Parliament's parties, except the Danish People's Party, entered into in May 2018. The agreement is aimed at combating marriages between two persons who are not Danish nationals who do not live in Denmark but who are merely intended to enter into marriage so that one of the spouses can obtain a residence permit in an EU or EEA country. Police information suggests that the easy access to marriage in Denmark in a number of countries has been used to circumvent the laws of other European countries, often with organized criminals as backers; backers who have made a lot of money from being middlemen. The Enhedslisten wants it to be easier for people who live in Denmark and who have entered into or want to enter into a completely legitimate marriage with another person, to have the spouse family brought together here, but that is Danish immigration policy, and this bill is not about that. This bill is about putting an end to the exploitation by organised criminals of the easy access to marriage in Denmark and, more precisely, to the location of the specialised unit to verify whether the marriage conditions are met. It is very good for us to place that unit in the Family Court House, which we support. The Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184022	Thank you for that and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184029	Well, I don't have to stall either. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184037	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184052	Thank you, President. This bill translates into two legislative proposals that the alternative has voted for. The first is that the Folketing has imposed a ban on pro-form marriages. In this context, a specialised unit of the State Administration has been set up to test the marriage conditions of foreign couples if there is a risk of pro-marriage. The specialised unit is held by the State Administration as from 1 January 2019 and is to be transferred to the Family Court House on 1 April. It supports the alternative. That is why it is also important that, with the second proposal, we implement the plans to shut down the States' parliaments and precisely set up the Family Court House, which is the result of the new divorce law, which a unanimous Parliament has also developed. So we support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184136	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and welcome to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184144	I agree with all the previous speakers. The bill is a logical consequence of our dismantling the State Administration and setting up the Family Court House and moving tasks that are relevant in this context to the Family Court House. We do this by moving pro-marriage and the investigation of it to the Family Court House. It fully supports the Radical Left along with the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184211	Thank you very much. And welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184218	Thank you. I have heard myself standing here on this platform sometimes complaining that such laws were piled together with everything that had nothing to do with each other. In this case, I would almost have liked this proposal to have been piled together with something else, but that is enough because you also discover along the way that there are some things that you cannot always take into account in the process. But of course we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184244	Thank you. Then it is time to welcome the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184253	Thank you, President. And thank you for your support for the bill. The law came into force last week and it is now up to the State Administration to ensure that it is not possible to enter into pro-marriage in Denmark to cheat into the EU. At the same time, I cannot thank you enough for the work on the new family law system, where we adopted the legislative proposals just before Christmas, and where we are working hard to ensure that the Family Court House can open its doors on April 1, 2019. In the new family law system, we focus on children, but the family law system must also carry out all other tasks in the area of family law. That is why, in connection with the agreement on the ban on pro-marriage, we agreed that the tasks of the State Administration with pro-marriage should be transferred to the Family Court House when the Family Court House opens on 1 April. And with the bill we are discussing today, we are implementing that part of the agreement. In addition, I would like to say that I shall be tabling an amendment of a technical nature as soon as possible, which will correct the fact that parents who have been separated for more than six months have, by mistake, been subject to the requirement of a period of reflection, which we adopted before Christmas. I would like to acknowledge receipt of the draft law and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that the committee may have during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184409	Thank you so much. It must be a pleasure to be a minister with such rapporteurs. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184431	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184455	Thank you, sir. President. L 135 is a draft law dealing with pensions. The bill is the execution of part of the budget law for 2019. The aim of the bill is to give pensioners better conditions and make it more attractive for seniors to stay longer in the labour market if they can feel it. In addition, there is a temporary increase in the deduction limit for personal allowances and the old-age check, etc., an increase in the basic allowance for the income of folk pensioners and an escalation of the income of spouses or couples. The draft law raises the basic amount of pension benefits, pension supplements and supplementary pension benefits, e.g.: the elderly check, in 2019 with an extra 0.2 per cent. That is not what you get rich of, but it is, after all, an increase. There will also be a temporary higher deduction before setting the pension supplement and the personal supplement rate. Reductions in income, i.e. the money you make next to your pension, rise to DKK 100,000 before you are set off. That's an increase of $40,000. The draft law also provides for pensions to be regulated in the future at the full rate in relation to wage developments and price regulation, which is also fair. The bill only contains improvements for pensioners. The bill will be implemented by part of the 2019 Finance Act, which we have supported and voted for before Christmas. So our support for the bill is, of course, in continuation of what we did and said before Christmas. Having said that, there is also a large group of people who do not benefit from the opportunities provided by the law. They are the ones who have worn themselves out in a full working life and cannot do a hundred percent more on the labour market. It is also many times those who have not earned most money and therefore do not have the large savings for pensions. They get no benefit from the legislation by earning a little extra and sweetening life and helping to contribute to the economy. So here we politicians have something to think about in relation to that group of people. Here we could invest in better working conditions so that they do not wear out, or create a more spacious labour market where there is room for more of those who cannot provide a hundred percent. But that's not exactly what I've seen the government do. They save on the working environment, on the Factory Inspectorate, and I think we should have looked at that if we are also going to help that group of people here. However, we shall vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184802	You're welcome, sir. Jan Johansen. And welcome to Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115184817	Thank you for that, President. It's kind of a good day with this bill. This is something that the Dansk Folkeparti (Danish People's Party) has been fighting for a long time to get through. This means, of course, that the basic amount of the pension, the pension supplement and the supplementary pension benefit will be increased by 0.2 percentage points from 2018 to 2019. Well, maybe it's not that much, but it's going in the right direction, and that's what we could get through. What is also in it is that the older cheque is correspondingly raised to an additional adjustment of 0.2 percentage points from 2018 to 2019. In this context, the amounts deducted from the basic income before calculating the retirement pension and early retirement are also increased under the Law on the highest, middle, higher general and ordinary early retirement. So there are a lot of good things in here. However, some of what is also included in this and some of what is important is that we have the floor limit on when to deduct before a pension is set off, for example. if there is a person on the labour market who is married or cohabiting with an early retirement or old-age pensionist. Then it is the case that the early retirement pension or the old-age pension is offset against the income from work that you have. The bottom allowance is raised by DKK 40,000, which means that it is more attractive for someone in a family to say: I can actually take a little more work; now I get something out of it. Well, it's fine, I'm getting a pay increase here. In the past, it may have meant that you haven't really gotten anything out of it. So now there is a basis for making more of the increase. So that's a really good thing. This also means that the basis for the payment of the elderly cheque will be increased by DKK 15,000. for lonely and 30,000 kroner. for couples before offsetting occurs. And it is not the old cheque that is being raised by that amount, I have to say. That is the basis for cutting the old-age check. So in this way we are in something that means a great deal to a lot of people, including couples on a folk pension, where both are folk pensioners and one has a job next door. You have more to do with taking a job that gives you a higher income. So far along the way, this will help to improve conditions. And that means that such a couple can have an increase of up to about DKK 12,000. Of course, that is not true for everyone, because it has little to do with what else you have, what kind of income you have and what kind of income you have. What will then also change is that the media check will gradually be phased in as the media licence is phased out, so that, as older people, a media check will be paid for. Some people say that you'll pay it in tax instead, but then you get a media check where it's offset. So all in all, I think this is a very good proposal and I really hope it will be welcomed. We can also already see that the increases in the basic allowance, before there is any set-off, both for early retirement and for old-age pensioners and those who are married to or cohabiting with an early retirement or old-age pensionist, have been well received. The Elders Case has praised it and said that it is some of the things they've wanted to see for a long time that come through here. We can also see that the senior networks welcome this. So around here this proposal is taken very well, and in the Danish People's Party we are very happy that we have managed to get it through in connection with this Finance Act. We have been working on it several times, where it has not succeeded, but it is now. And with the agreement made in connection with the financial law negotiations, this also means that the 0.3 per cent that is taken to the rate pool will disappear. There'll be a bill later on on that area. So there are a lot of good things on their way to the seniors. Let me just say that we are, of course, aware of this wear and tear, as Mr. Jan Johansen said, and that is where we have set up a think tank to make a recording this summer, where we will then have to look at further interaction between seniors and withdrawing from the labour market. But it is a very good and positive proposal that we in the Danish People's Party are very happy that we have got through. Of course, we support this wholeheartedly and warmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185331	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted for the positive words. And welcome to Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185339	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs, who have, of course, examined the draft law very well. We are on a strong economic foundation in Denmark, and we have a towering employment and a really good economic growth, and this also makes it possible to prioritise better conditions for some of those who have contributed to Danish society for generations. It is a commitment that we in the Left take on our shoulders. We are, in fact, concerned with ensuring a robust and secure pension system, a system which, as a starting point, aims to ensure good and secure incomes in senior life, and a system in which it is attractive for seniors to stay longer in the labour market. Therefore, the government and the Danish People's Party as part of the 2019 Finance Act have agreed to make an already good pension system even better. Sir. Bent Bøgsted and the Social Democrat rapporteur have examined very well the four concrete proposals contained in this bill, and I shall not repeat them. However, the four proposals make it more attractive to continue to have a foot in the labour market and to ensure an even more secure and robust pension system. So in general, it can be said that a great many old-age pensioners can look forward to increased incomes in the years to come, both because labour market pensions are in the process of realising and because, politically, we are making a determined effort to strengthen the retirement pension and the incentive to give an extra hand in the labour market, even after retirement age has been reached. Against this background, the Left will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185532	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185542	Thank you. This bill contains some clear improvements for pensioners who have income in addition to their pension and for pensioners who have a spouse or partner who has income. However, pensioners who have a national pension as their sole income will only have minimal improvements in 2019. The rates for the old-age pensioners are increased by DKK 400. a year for a single and with 316 kroner. per year for married and cohabitants. This gives a monthly increase of DKK 33 for the princely amount in 2019. for a single and 26 kroner. for married and cohabitants. We have not included the new media check, as it must be regarded as compensation for the loss of half-licensed reduction that people's pensioners with no other income have so far received. Pre-retirement pensioners do not receive an increase in the rates. We are aware that in the years to come there will be an improvement in the pension rates, because in future the national pension will have to follow the wage trend and there will be no deduction to the rate pool. However, if you look only at 2019, it is difficult to see improvements for the low-income pensioners. This proposal should have made up for the shortfall in wage developments resulting from the long-standing contributions to the rate pool, and it is sad that improvements mainly benefit the better-off pensioners rather than the most disadvantaged. However, since the proposal contains some improvements and no deteriorations, the Enhedslisten can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185735	We thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185748	Thank you. It is probably no surprise to anyone that in the Liberal Alliance we want seniors to stay a little longer on the labour market as we grow older and older. And that is why we think this is a positive legislative proposal. We think it is very good that you have an incentive to work longer because it benefits the Danish companies that need the labour force, and thus the growth and prosperity of our society. So the Liberal Alliance supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185823	Thank you. And welcome to Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185838	Thank you. The alternative is also pleased with this proposal and the benefits it brings to pensioners. There are four proposals, but they have been mentioned, so I would just like to say that the general point is that it increases the public pension benefits, basic amounts, pension supplements, supplementary pension benefits, etc., and so on, and so on, we pensioners. And it also gives seniors a greater incentive to stay in the labour market, voluntarily well to feel. And we think that's fine, too. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, we could have worked a little harder to take care of the poorest pensioners too, and it had been very, very good if we here and at least soon began to talk about wear and tear pensions and began to help those people who, to all our delights, have been so long in the labour market that they have created a huge value but who, unfortunately, have also worn themselves down. But that should not stop us from supporting this proposal, which is a good small step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115185945	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Well, then I'd like to welcome Mr. Knox. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190000	Thank you. The Radical Left is not part of the financial settlement, the original agreement. We have not had any part in this agreement when it was concluded. There are in L 135 parts that we would like to support and others that we are not so enthusiastic about. We radically support making it more attractive to stay longer in the labour market. On the other hand, it has, of course, had consequences for the economic priorities elsewhere, that all pensions should be raised slightly. It's expensive. If it were up to us, we would have given different priority to this pool of money. We would have liked to have helped the poorest pensioners who, objectively speaking, have very little, and not the most wealthy pensioners who have a lot, even though little is done to help them. So we're not really very excited about that part. I would therefore like to call for the legislative proposal to be broken down according to the lines outlined and then we will decide our position before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190053	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190101	On average, we live longer, and that's great. But unconsciously just raising the retirement age is going hard on the many who are physically or mentally worn out. However, there may be little perspective in making it more attractive to continue on the labour market after retirement if it is voluntary and the individual can cope with it in terms of health. Of course, a lure to get seniors to continue at work is to lubricate with extra money. It does not help the worn out that the fresh senior works more, but it is a contribution to the economy, and it is also good if several seniors can implement a flexible and more individual withdrawal from the labour market. In addition, the bill also contains some small improvements in the rates of pensionists, but they are small enough to have reasonably strong glasses, and they must be clearly polished if you are to be able to see them, but these are improvements. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190208	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge, and welcome to Mr. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190221	Thank you so much. After all, things are moving fast, and that is why I have also highlighted some of my rapporteur's speech so that it can go very quickly from here. In connection with the 2019 Finance Act, the government and Dansk Folkeparti have agreed to implement a general increase in the folk pension. We do, among other things. Because pensioners must also feel the economic recovery that is in full swing. With the bill, we raise, among other things. the limit on the start of the escalation of the old people's cheques and pensions, just as we raise the basic allowance, which has an impact on how much old people's pensioners can earn before it affects the amount of the pension. Finally, we are relaxing income regulation for the income of spouses and couples, both for pensioners and for early retirement. In order for the law to enter into force as soon as possible, the draft law has been submitted in consultation at the same time as it has been put forward, which means that the law can enter into force as soon as possible after its adoption and with retroactive effect from 1 January 2019. The draft law makes it attractive for pensioners to maintain a link with the labour market, which is of great benefit to society, but also to pensioners who choose to continue a little longer in the labour market. All in all, this is a win-win situation for everyone. Conservatives fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190333	Thank you, sir. Erik Lund and welcome to the newly baked father, the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190342	Thank you. And it is true that the last time I stood on the platform, I had not become a father, but I can announce that I have now become not today, but a few weeks ago. It doesn't have much to do with this legal treatment. However, thank you for the comments that have come to the draft law that we are discussing now. The draft law, as many have mentioned, is, after all, the implementation of the 2019 Financial Law Agreement, which provides for an improvement in the pensioners' economy. That is what is being done, among other things. by carrying out a general increase in the public pension in 2019, and in addition, we give a special boost to middle-income pensioners who have saved up for their own old age. The promise is made by increasing the limit on the start of the escalation of elderly cheques and pension supplements. We do this because, despite the interplay problem, these pensioners have nevertheless chosen to save up for their own pensions. The promise of deduction limits is gradually phased out over 15 years, as future generations of pensioners will increasingly benefit from the interplay solution in the area of pension taxation, which was implemented last year. For me, it is important that we draw on the experience and resources of our seniors. That is why we should also be better able to keep them in our labour market. And we also owe it to us to make it more attractive for our pensioners to maintain a link with the labour market. This is good both for society and for younger generations, but also for pensioners who can benefit from it themselves. That is why the draft law increases the basic allowance, which has an impact on how much pensioners can earn before it affects the amount of their pension. The increase in the basic allowance improves the financial incentive for folk pensionists to work in their senior life. In practice, this means that the base deduction with the bill increases from DKK 60,000. $100,000. a year. In addition, we relax the indexation of the income of spouses and couples both for pensioners and early retirement. The aim here is, of course, to encourage increased employment. It has been a priority for the government that pensioners should, from this year onwards, have a greater share in the economic recovery. The changes will therefore take effect from 1 January and, as the Conservative rapporteur has explained, this is also why we have a rapid legislative procedure. I look forward to the committee reading. But from here, too, thanks are due for the broad support for the bill, and not least for the Danish People's Party, because it is no secret that the Danish People's Party has had it as a matter of priority for many years to make these improvements that are now being implemented. And that is why we also owe it to us to say that this is something that the Danish People's Party has put a decisive emphasis on during the financial law negotiations that were concluded at the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190641	Thank you. And it didn't give any comment. Since no one else wanted to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190721	The negotiations have been opened and the first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115190731	Thank you. This motion for a resolution, B 46, is a very good motion for a resolution on an important subject which is based on the conditions of compensation for employees who are subjected to violence at their work by citizens whom they care for. This is a really sad and unfortunate situation for both parties in cases where, for example, people with disabilities, demented or other mentally handicapped persons are violence against the employees who are employed to care for them. There will often be citizens who are unable to understand the consequences of their actions and who often do not want to be punished or cannot be punished because of age. I therefore recognise the concerns raised in the motion for a resolution, in particular the ethical dilemma for an employee to have to report to a citizen who is daily responsible for helping and looking after. I agree with the authors of the motion that it is important that we have a system that takes care of those who have been subjected to violence and threats in the workplace, and not least for employees who must continue to have a caring relationship with the citizen who has committed violence against them. I will come back to that a little later. But let me start somewhere else. It is primarily the responsibility of employers to ensure that it is healthy and safe to go to work in Denmark, and this applies regardless of whether you work on a construction site, as a prisoner or as a teacher for example. mentally handicapped. In the situations on which the resolution is concerned, this means that employees must be protected from violence and threats from citizens with aggressive behaviour. Those are the rules today, and they have to stay that way. At the same time, I am aware that we cannot completely avoid cases of violence and threats, even if the employer fulfils its duty to the letter, but with the right effort we can, fortunately, go a long way. Therefore, in both 2017 and 2018, the government also allocated pool funds to continue the so-called violence prevention packages for hospitals, 24-hour and home care, doctors, police and prisons. The packages consist of steps which jobs must follow in order to prevent and learn how to deal with incidents of violence and threats at work. An evaluation of the packages will also be carried out, which is expected to be ready during 2019. In 2019, a new violence prevention package is offered which is targeted housing and welfare homes. Having said that, we are still left with some employees who are actually subjected to violence and who must be taken care of when the damage has been done. It is important to make it clear that the occupational injury system does not affect compensation, whether there is a responsible cause of injury or whether the incident is reported to the police. In other words, employers have an objective responsibility. When a case is recognised under the Labour Security Act, the employee may be covered by the cost of treatment for compensation for any permanent but and compensation for loss of earning capacity, regardless of whether it is a violent incident at work or a fall from a ladder. In addition, victims of violence also have the possibility of obtaining compensation and compensation under the victim compensation law, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. The Offer Compensation Act covers, inter alia: lost earnings, pain and pain as well as tort, i.e. forms of compensation which are not provided in the work injury system. As a starting point, compensation under the Compensation Act requires police reporting of the offence. However, as I am informed, the Compensation Board may grant a derogation from the notification requirement in cases where, for example, the care staff of a treatment institution have been subjected to violence when there are general educational or treatment considerations on the institution in question, which speak against a police declaration. As mentioned above, the rules in this area are the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. Whether or not a waiver can be granted for police reporting requirements, I believe that it is the employer's responsibility to ensure the handling of abuses. This includes both possible police reports, occupational injury reports and ensuring that the victim of violence receives the necessary help and support to move forward, including in relation to the citizen who, without understanding the consequences of his actions, has harmed the employee. I would also like to make it clear here today that I understand very well that for the employee who has been subjected to violence at work, it may be difficult to have to deal with the fact that there is both a case in the occupational injury system and in the victim compensation system. With the elements contained in the motion for a resolution in mind, I would therefore like to initiate work to examine the interaction between the area of occupational injury protection and the area of victim compensation. In that process, it will be natural and also essential to involve relevant stakeholders as part of clarifying the issue even more. It can provide a solid basis for a political discussion of the problem and of whether the changes to the rules in this area, for example, are likely to result in: should be part of a future reform of the area of occupational injury or as an entirely independent political initiative. I must also say here today that it will not be realistic to draw up a report which will form the basis for a legislative proposal for this parliamentary year, but I would like to say that the government supports the motion for a resolution with the addition or reservation that a more realistic timetable is being drawn up which will allow for a thorough cover-up. For me, it is important that serious work is done which can be started immediately, we need to clarify the issue, and possible solutions must be put on the table in a good and constructive way. That is why I am actually looking forward both to having these matters discussed better during the committee procedure, but I would also like to announce now that we can get the work started as soon as possible, even though the resolution has not been finalised, because we can just as well, with the broad consensus I sense, about this resolution, get the work started now and not necessarily wait for us to reach the end of the debate on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191354	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191358	Thank you very much to the Minister for his good speech, also in view of the fact that the Minister recognises that there are some challenges in this area. We know that there is going to be a choice, perhaps in the near future, and that this work will not have to come to a complete halt in some desk drawer over there in the ministry, can the Minister tell us whether this work may also continue after an election?• the official work at the Ministry will raise its hand, compared to the fact that there is actually a majority for this and that if we do not get this through before a election, which can be a little difficult?
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191447	Yeah, I can guarantee that. Now there are more models for it. I mean, I've offered before that I can sit, no matter who forms the government, to ensure a degree of continuity in the Ministry of Employment. This is not necessarily the model we will end up with, but I think that, on the basis of the first reading, I could invite all parties in the Folketing to actually have a political agreement now on the framework for this work, so that there is a broad consensus and so that it is in place before parliamentary elections are held. And I am not the one who issues parliamentary elections, but I am quite aware that it would be fine to have a political agreement following up on the resolution we are discussing now. So I actually intend to take the initiative on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191530	I'd like to sign for that. And in any case, for the Danish People's Party, it will be very good if the Minister for Employment also remained seated after an election, precisely in order to get good proposals through here in the Parliamentary Chamber. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191549	But then I will make sure that that conclusion becomes part of the political agreement, i.e. that I will, of course, remain in office no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191556	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191557	Thank you. The last thing I cannot promise is that I will work for, but on the other hand I would like to acknowledge that both the Minister and the Minister stress that prevention of violence is important. I agree with that very much, but also to acknowledge that this is a problem that needs to be resolved. It has been going on for so many years, and it is just as awful whether you are the one who has been attacked and has to report to a citizen or, for that matter, give up compensation because you cannot have the heart of it. Both scenarios are equally terrible. Therefore, it makes very good sense that you might be able to solve this problem once and for all, among other things. by concluding a political agreement now. So I am just interested to hear whether the Minister for Employment can give a suggestion as to what a realistic timetable could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191700	But I think that, over the next 14 days to 3 weeks, a political framework agreement should be drawn up which will then agree on the timetable for this work. However, I think it would be natural if this work were to be put into effect in the coming month, that in the coming assembly of parliaments, that is to say, the parliamentary assembly called 2019-20, a bill could be tabled and adopted. I think that will certainly be realistic. I also believe that the problem we are talking about is not so difficult. It has some economic consequences, there may be different solutions, and this is also outlined in the motion for a resolution, but I do not think that this is something we should spend year and day on. We need to clarify this and we need to make a relatively thorough disclosure, but I believe that it can be adopted without difficulty in the next session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191757	I am in favour of the fact that technology can be a little difficult, but I agree that it should be simple to solve the problem, which everyone agrees needs to be resolved. I can only note that if a one-month timetable means that we can reach an agreement before the next Assembly, maybe we can start guessing when there will be an election or what? I'm just gonna sign for us to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191824	I mean, it's not because I think there's going to be an election within one month, but I think there's no reason to waste time with us having a process here in the Folketing. We might as well formalise the process and involve the stakeholders to be involved and have those meetings held here during the spring. And then, at least, there will be a parliamentary election by June at the latest, and that is why I have an ambition that this work is so well under way so that there can be a report to anyone who would then be Minister for Employment after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191854	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115191909	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting forward the proposal and maintaining the desire to find a solution to the problem, in other words to ensure that employees can receive compensation when they are subjected to violence. In recent years we have discussed several times how to prevent violence and how to ensure compensation for the victims. In the Social Democratic Party we want first of all that it should be healthy and safe to go to work, but once the damage has been done there must also be compensation for the damage and for torment, pain and pain to the victim. It is also clear from the very detailed comments on the motion for a resolution that there has been a development in this area in recent years. However, regardless of the very fine intentions, the employees are left behind, for example. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. That is not fair either for the citizens or for the employees. I believe that everyone agrees on that. In fact, we were four years ago when I last stood on the floor and discussed a similar motion for a resolution. Now it has been four years, so now we actually need to find a solution and to get the work started. That is why I and we think it is a good idea for stakeholders and parties who have lot and share in this proposal to now be put on the table and to draw up a report to form the basis for a future law. In the Social Democratic Party we think it is time that action was taken, but we do not want it to be illegal, so we propose that the timetable laid down in the motion for a resolution be revised slightly, as has just been discussed with the Minister. In the form that has been discussed here by the rapporteurs with the Minister, the Social Democratic Party can fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115192118	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115192132	Thank you. This is really good. This motion for a resolution is a revenant, in fact on several occasions, and is precisely about ensuring that employees are able to make full compensation when they have been subjected to violence at work. The last time we put it forward in the 2014-15 session, the Conservatives were also behind the resolution. We would like to ensure that there is complete transparency and clear guidelines, as well as rules on violence against employees, by requiring the government to draw up a report on different solutions that meet employees' ability to receive compensation when they have been subjected to violence at work, including the involvement of relevant experts and interested organisations. The report will then form the basis for a legislative proposal that meets the employees' ability to obtain compensation when they have been subjected to violence at work and to have expenses covered in the compensation case. In public and private workplaces, nursing staff, educators, social educators, teachers and other staff groups are affected with special support and care functions, etc. in the form of violence and, in several cases, violence may have been committed by citizens with mental and physical impairments, people with development impairments, people with mental illness, people with dementia or other citizens who simply do not understand the consequences of their actions. If you are exposed to violence in your work, it is more complex to guarantee the right to full compensation than if you are exposed to street violence, because the law on occupational injury does not cover compensation for pain and pain or loss of earnings, nor is it possible to obtain reimbursement of cost of damaged clothing or the like. If the injured party is to have covered these claims, it is necessary to apply for the remaining claims in accordance with the rules of the Civil Liability Act. There is also a challenge that we must also examine, I think, in relation to the police report and the 72 hours. There may also be challenges to having the incident reported within the time frame, especially if there is an agreement at the workplace that it is the management that makes the police report or that it is up to a weekend or other. Then the Minister for Employment mentioned that there were some exemptions, but there has also been a Supreme Court case there, which we must have asked about in relation to it. In any case, that is something that we must have included in the subsequent work that is now coming. There have been several unintended inquiries in relation to police reporting precisely for claims for compensation, and we can also see this in relation to the statistics on violence. In addition, several people have read the newspaper among others. about Karina Schmeltz, who is infantil autist and mentally retarded, who, according to Berlingske, was faced with a claim for damages of DKK 300,000. It is neither appropriate for staff nor for a citizen with a disability to be dragged through a legal system. The resident is often unaware of what the resident has done, and for the staff who carry out the work in everyday life, it must certainly not be nice that they have had to make the decision to report to one of the residents. This is a very difficult situation and, of course, it is also important, as the Minister has also mentioned, that the municipalities ensure that they are responsible to both groups of people, and of course they must do so by ensuring good working conditions for the staff, ensuring that there are enough staff to work with the target group, and ensuring that the citizens also receive the right social educational support. This is something that has been wanted for a long time both from the disability organisations and from the social educators. It is therefore very gratifying today that I can see and hear that there is a political majority in favour of this proposal, and we welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party has finally succeeded. I look forward to further work and would like to sign up to the Minister for Employment and the other parties to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115192600	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, and welcome to Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115192608	Thank you for that and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the objectives and content of the resolution. I think we all think that this is a terrible situation, for example. Dementia citizens are violent towards employees who have dedicated their working lives to their care. These citizens are often unable to understand the consequences of their actions themselves, which is why they are not punished either. This presents unique challenges in relation to the employee who suffers from the violent behavior. For, of course, we must take care of the employee who is exposed to violence and threats, both because it is right to do so and also in order to contribute to the employee's return to work and care for the vulnerable citizens. On the other hand, there is also concern for example. a demented citizen where prosecution and potential punishment do not really make sense. We, as politicians, have a responsibility to deal with this problem. The Minister mentioned earlier that in 2017 and 2018 funds have been allocated to violence prevention packages, which should make jobs better able to deal with incidents of violence and threats, and even if this does not eliminate the problem completely, we should not forget the preventive initiatives. Today it is the case that if you have been subjected to violence in the workplace, you have the opportunity to obtain compensation, whether or not the victim is reported. It ensures the occupational injury system. Similarly, the victims of violence have the opportunity to seek compensation through the victim compensation law, which covers the areas excluded from the occupational injury system. In principle, the victim compensation law requires a police report to document the offence on which the compensation case is based. This may, however, be waived where there are certain educational or therapeutic grounds against the report of the perpetrators. Here the employer has a very special responsibility to help the employee so that he can make good progress in his working life and in his replacement case. We have the same responsibility, and that is why we are open to looking, on the basis of the motion for a resolution, at whether we can improve the interaction between the occupational injury system and the victim compensation area in favour of those affected by the violence. It will take time for insight and insight so that we can make a really well-founded decision on any changes. That is why we in the Left are looking forward to both the committee work that we are going to have, but also to the work that I have listened to, that the Minister almost here from Parliament's speaking chair set in motion this evening. We are therefore in favour of voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, with the reservation that we must look at a timetable which is also realistic. Against this background, I look forward to the work of the committee and also to the fact that in future we will be discussing proposals for solutions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115192942	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen, and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115192949	Thank you. And thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for a very good one. In fact, when you stand in here, there are proposals on proposals where there is broad consensus across many political differences. So there's a lot of things we agree on. I fully share the concerns raised by this motion for a resolution. I believe that over the last few years we have all heard of cases where employees have been subjected to violence caused by citizens with disability, mental illness or something quite different. And it's sad for both sides when such cases happen. The employee's job is to care for these people, but it is also seriously affecting him or his or her relatives when a major cause is made out of it. I think that this is a good resolution and I am very pleased that the government is taking it down positively and that the Minister has also said here in the Chair that work will be started, because we all know that there is a parliamentary election on the steps. It does not seem that we would be able to agree on this even if there were to be a new majority. I think you could do that. But I think that the message the Minister is sending is very good, so we are going to get to work now. So the Liberal Alliance supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193130	Thank you, Mrs. Laura Lindahl, and welcome to Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193136	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that the level of violence against employees in the country's jobs is far too high. And it is not just the Alternative who thinks the same thing says the Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work, and they have some more sense of it than we do. Statistics show that e.g. One out of every three social educators is subjected to violence during the first year; for social and health workers and social and health assistants, more than four out of ten workers are subjected to violence. That is why it is a problem that it is more complex to guarantee the right to full compensation if you are exposed to violence at work than if, for example, you are exposed to violence at work. happens on the open street. And that is why this motion for a resolution is very welcome, that is to say, that the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to draw up a report on various solutions that meet employees' ability to receive compensation when they have been subjected to violence at work. It is a report which will involve relevant experts and interested organisations and a report which will form the basis for a legislative proposal that meets employees' ability to receive compensation when they have been subjected to violence at work and to cover the costs of the compensation case. This, of course, supports the alternative, and what is a pleasure is that the proposal here today, now in this Chamber, meets government support, and indeed that we are ready to reach an agreement quickly to give it a chance to go on and get it implemented. As a service to potential viewers and to the public, I can say that many resolutions are being tabled, but that it is very rare for them to be adopted. So it's a pleasure to be part of it for once, and I should also remember to say that I think it's really clever work by Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193333	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and welcome to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193348	Thank you. Like the previous speakers, I should like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for their excellent work. The Radical Left supports the resolution and I would also like to thank the Minister for his comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193401	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193414	Thank you. I do not think that it surprises many that this proposal is really, really important to me. Too many public servants are still affected by violence in the workplace. Statistics show that about one out of every three social educators are subjected to violence in one year, while for social workers and health workers it applies to just over four out of ten employees. It's still gone too many. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Employment stresses that we still have to work on prevention because, after all, prevention is better than cure. But once the damage has been done, we must also ensure that the victim of violence is treated in the same way by receiving the same compensation as other victims of violence. Violence is violence, and the harmful effects are and remain the same. It is also a dimension that, if a victim of violence is to be treated in the same way as other victims, it presupposes the police reporting of the weak citizens whom the employee is assigned to deal with. It is, of course, quite untenable in itself. I am therefore very pleased that it is on my watch that we finally agree that this problem must now be resolved once and for all. When you have stood in the courtroom and experienced how it affects both the employee and the citizen to whom it relates, you know that this proposal is an important one. This means a great deal to many, and I am very pleased with the support of all the parties in the Danish Parliament that we should finally have it resolved once and for all, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193556	Thank you very much to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome to sir. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193605	Thank you so much. When employees are exposed to violence at work, it can have major consequences for the employee, both physical and psychological. That is why we must do everything we can to minimise these acts of violence. As a starting point, however, it is the employer's responsibility to ensure that it is safe to go to work regardless of whether you work in the public or private sector. In particular, however, it is when employees are subjected to violence at their work by citizens they care about, because they can be citizens who cannot fully understand the consequences of their actions. Here the employee can be faced with the dilemma of having to report to a citizen who is to be helped and cared for daily and with whom you have many times a close relationship. We must therefore have a system to deal with those who have been subjected to violence and threats in the workplace. On the conservative side, we agree that we should have a political discussion on the issue, but we, like the Minister, believe that a more realistic timetable should be set so that we can have a thorough coverage of all the issues and solutions. After all, the Minister suggested that a political framework agreement might be drawn up, and we are quite open to that. Conservatives look forward to the forthcoming committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193717	Thank you, sir. Lund. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20190115193724	First of all, thank you for the very positive reception of the proposal. After all, it is a pleasure to be rapporteur for a proposal which enjoys such a great deal of sympathy in the Assembly. This is also needed, I would say, because every day of the year there are employees who are subjected to violence at their workplace. It is all too often that social educators, carers, social and health workers and nurses experience violence when caring for citizens and patients in many places in our public sector. Many will probably remember the great debate recently about teachers' working conditions and the very widespread cases of violence and the increasing number of cases of violence experienced in the country's schools. The list of professional groups who experience violence at their workplace could be made very long. It is indeed the case that the number of cases of violence in the workplace runs for several thousand in a year, and for many it has several different serious consequences, on the one hand, physical consequences, on the other hand, psychological consequences and, on the other hand, for many also serious economic consequences. Therefore, when we deal with this proposal, where we focus on compensation, there is also reason to say that the most important thing is that preventive initiatives are needed, as the Minister also mentioned, so that fewer people are subjected to violence. But there is also such a need to do something about the quite unreasonable fact that many of the employees who are subjected to violence are either not fully compensated for the damage caused, or that they have great difficulty in getting it, and that is the problem we wanted to solve with this resolution. As several of the rapporteurs have said, the Labour Damage Act is so designed that it does not include compensation for pain and loss of earnings. And that is why, today, too many employees face the huge dilemma that, if they are to pursue what they naturally have to do, the matter and ensure that they are compensated for pain and loss of earnings, then they have to report to the public and refer the matter to either the Compensation Board or, depending on the nature of the case, raise a civil action against the citizens whom they are otherwise employed to care for. I think that everyone and I can hear that at least all the rapporteurs here can see that this is a totally unfair situation which is being put on the staff. It is grotesque that you have to make a police report to get your right to compensation. However, I also think it is important in a proposal in which we are dealing with the conditions of employees, that we make it very clear that it is also extremely important in a citizen's perspective. Imagine being a citizen, a developing citizen, a patient who is mentally ill, who must experience that because of being outgoing and because of his disability causes damage to an employee, you risk both police reporting and being dragged through the judicial system. It is unworthy, and therefore it is very important from a citizens' perspective that we do something about this matter. With the motion for a resolution we did not want to adopt a specific solution here. So, as we have outlined by listing four models that might have been listed several times, we have wanted there to be an open dialogue on how we do this best. This is a problem which has been addressed for many years, and it is perhaps also surprising that it is only today that we reach a political agreement on the matter. Nevertheless, we think it is really important that we get this very detailed and, above all, that we get employees' organisations, disability organisations and patient organisations involved in a very thorough debate about this. I have to say, for the sake of good order, that even before the Minister's remarks on the fact that this was thought of at a rather rapid pace in relation to actual legislation, the proposers and among other things. The Social Democrat rapporteur has discussed whether we have been, what should we say, a little eager in our desire to have rapid legislation in this area. In other words, I fully agree, and the proposers agree, that we need a process in which we are a little thorough, and that is why we agree that no legislative proposals are being tabled in this session. On the other hand, I would like to say that I am very grateful to the Minister for his kindness. It's really nice to have a discussion called. To the extent that we have to come up with a real political agreement, we have to discuss it. If so, I think it must be such that what we are making a political agreement on is to get the process under way, while I think we should be careful to draw conclusions on the matter, because what has just been wanted by the proposers was to ensure that the detailed lighting with the involvement of the various interest groups is provided so that we do not come up with hasty solutions in our efforts, but that we ensure that the solutions to which we are referring are properly identified and clarified. With those comments, I would like to thank the co-authors for working together on the proposal. Thank you very much to the other parties for their support and, as I said, it is also very welcome that the Minister, on behalf of the government, can support the fact that we are now resolving this problem. I am sure that there will be a great many people in the workplace who are extremely happy about this proposal, and I believe that they will also be very enthusiastic about this proposal in the House of Disabled People, because, as I said, it is not just a question of the conditions of employees; it is also very much a question of ensuring the dignity of disabled citizens, psychiatric patients who have been dragged through the legal system of existing legislation. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115194421	Thank you very much, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There is no such thing, and the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190115194440	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 16 January 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
