ParlaMint-DK_20191128100011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 79 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on upper secondary education. Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Mogens Jensen): Bill No. L 80 (Proposal for a law on animal welfare). Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Liselott Blixt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 47 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal qualifications of doctors in Denmark trained in EU/EEA countries and third countries) and motion for a resolution No. B 48 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal language requirements for doctors in Denmark who are trained in EU/EEA countries and third countries respectively). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above)
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100059	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100117	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100143	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100158	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100223	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100242	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 101 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100306	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100322	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100346	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100402	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100428	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100450	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100513	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100528	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100558	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100615	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 99 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100642	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100702	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-7 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100711	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100718	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. We are now embarking on first readings and those who do not want to be in the Chamber are asked to leave it quietly before we start the first reading of L 53.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100835	Then we have had time to leave the Chamber, which is why I expect general order in the Chamber, because we are now starting the next item on the agenda. I would ask that the discussions should now be kept to a little, because, as I said, there has been time to leave the Chamber. The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100855	Thank you. This proposal is part of the deal that was made before the summer around senior retirement. In order to get more people to work longer, the requirement to provide evidence for flexibility workers who have less than 6 years of age to retirement age is then abolished. This will mean that more people will be able to keep their old job as flex workers, where 12 months of prior employment will no longer be required according to the social chapters of the collective agreements or under special conditions at the citizen's previous place of work. This, of course, requires continuing to meet the requirements for a flexible job. I clearly believe that this is a step in the right direction and will mean that more flex jobs will continue to work, as most companies will keep an experienced employee even if they cannot work full-time. I also believe that this will mean that more people will stay longer in the labour market and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128100954	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101004	Thank you. The proposal translates part of the agreement on entitlement to a senior pension into worn-out, which a majority of the parties here in the Folketing entered into in the spring. The agreement, as also mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur, provides seniors who have six years or less at the age of the population pension and who meet the general conditions for flexible jobs, with the opportunity to start the restraint work immediately without having to document 12 months' employment. This gives seniors who need it a better chance of gradually withdrawing from the labour market. This is good, not least for the individual, but also for those companies which, at the same time, are given the opportunity to hold onto routine hands and better opportunities to take social responsibility. I welcome the fact that the government has endorsed the agreement on senior pensions, and hence this part of the agreement. It has been a great wish to make it easier to get into a restraint flexible job, and with this bill we make it easier for those who are close to the retirement age. So I have to tell you that the Left will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101136	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101145	Thank you for that, President. This is actually a pretty good proposal. This has been negotiated in the context of the negotiations on senior pensions. It has been the case that when you had to have a flex job, you could not immediately continue in the company in which you had worked so far. Then there was a social chapter which meant that you had to go out for a year and work elsewhere before you could possibly get flex jobs in the company you might have been in for many years. That rule is removed so that, if you are given the right to have a flex job, you can go on with the employer who really wants to keep you and maybe continue in a job you know. And this is a very good thing, which the Danish People's Party naturally supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101238	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to the Radical Left to Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101245	Thank you. With this proposal, we are putting into effect one of the elements of the agreement on senior pensions for worn-out people, of which we in the Radical Left are very happy to be a part. With the agreement, we intend to ensure that if you are worn out after many years of work and employment, there must be better opportunities to withdraw. The element that we are discussing today improves the ability of seniors to work on reduced time in a flexible job at their previous place of work. The documentation requirement shall be abolished so that seniors are no longer subject to the requirement of 12 months' prior employment. This is a really important step towards a gradual withdrawal which makes sense for the individual and for the companies that will be able to retain experienced employees. It is crucial that we can offer seniors a gradual and flexible withdrawal after many years of employment, and the abolition of the documentation requirement is an important step on the way. We in the Radical Left look forward to voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101354	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur I see is Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101400	Thank you, sir. President. For the sake of good order, I should like to start by saying that I am not the rapporteur on this matter, but that I am covering the first reading for Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, traveling with Foreign Policy Name. The draft law is aimed at abolishing the requirement for proof of maintenance flexible jobs for persons under the age of 6 at the age of the population pension. This means that you can be employed directly in flex jobs at your existing workplace instead of first having been employed for 12 months under the social chapters of the agreement or under special conditions. The abolition of the requirement is, in the SF's view, an improvement and simplification of the existing rules and a step towards a more inclusive labour market, which is why we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101449	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101503	Bang! Thank you for the floor. There should also be a bang when it comes to the need for even more legislative proposals to actually improve the conditions for flex-jobs. This is what this proposal does for those who have six years left in the labour market. We think this is an improvement and we would like to see even more people there so that we can create a more inclusive labour market. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101529	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101539	Thank you. The bill translates one of the elements of the agreement on the entitlement to senior pension for worn-out, which we entered into when we were in government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, and since then the Social Democrats have also joined the settlement. The documentation requirement for restraint flexible jobs for seniors shall be abolished. Seniors shall no longer be subject to the requirement of 12 months' prior employment under the social chapters of the Agreement or under special conditions at the previous place of work. The bill ensures that this is implemented. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very concerned that seniors should have better opportunities to remain in the labour market if they so wish. There is a need for labour. By removing the documentation requirement for restraint flexible jobs for seniors, we ensure that people with less than 6 years old at the age of the population, who have a significantly reduced working capacity, have better opportunities to get into flex jobs at their previous place of work as soon as possible. It is important that companies have good opportunities to keep valued employees who need to work on reduced time. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101659	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101705	Thank you. In the alternative, we also think it is good that you can continue in the company you are in if you are entitled to flex jobs without having to prove that you have been in that company for 12 months. So, of course, the alternative is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101724	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101729	Thank you, President. New citizens can immediately also support the proposal. However, we have a few questions that we would like to have answered. We would like to know a little about how many people are expected to use the scheme. In addition, we would like to see some figures for the period after 2025, and then we would also like to know a little about how this bill fits in with the proposal that is being prepared by the Social Democratic Party on the right to early retirement. How is it going to play with this, and is there going to be some overlap in it? We would also like to hear more about this. I know it is coming, but it may be that the Minister can lift the veil on that part of it. We welcome the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101814	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101819	With this bill, we are giving better opportunities for seniors to stay on the labour market, and that is common sense at all. In general, we must make every effort during the next parliamentary term to ensure that more seniors remain longer in the labour market if they are not worn out. This bill is a small step in the right direction. Let us take many more and more steps in the same direction during the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128101904	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their contributions and thank you for the support that has been given to the draft law. The bill translates one of the elements of the agreement on the entitlement to senior pension for worn-out from May 2019, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned in their comments. It is clear from the agreement that persons aged 6 or less at the age of the population who have a substantial and lasting reduced working capacity must be able to enter flexible jobs at their previous place of work as soon as possible. With the bill that we are discussing today, we are therefore abolishing the requirement for documentation on restraint jobs for seniors. This means that for seniors there will no longer be a requirement for 12 months' prior employment after the social chapters of the agreements or on special conditions at the previous place of work of citizens. The bill thus gives seniors the opportunity to be employed directly in flex jobs with their former employer when they are searched for flex jobs. As far as some of the questions which Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, in his rapporteur's speech, I would say that it is expected that some 140 more people will enter the scheme per year, and the bill is estimated to affect almost 900 full-time people when it is fully phased in in 2025. With regard to the second part of the question of what it looks like after 2025, we will try to write a reply which can be used in the subsequent committee discussion to Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathisen. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for today's debate and I look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102036	There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102051	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102108	We have a lot of important discussions here in the field of employment, but none of this is more important than what we are discussing today. The fact that we can go to work happy and go back home just as happy is incredibly important. The fact that we know that we are working in a secure environment with a focus on the well-being of all of us is also incredibly important. That is why the working environment is a very important issue that we cannot discuss enough, and it is a subject that we must constantly focus on. After all, the truth is that the 2020 targets set some years ago turned out to be in the wrong direction, which is why we had to do something. That is why the social partners have also discussed this here in a committee of experts, and a very broad political majority has made a large and good agreement. I am extremely pleased about this, and it also shows how seriously this issue is taken across the social partners and across the parties. It can be said a great deal about the agreement, how many things are included in this proposal, but I would like to focus on the targeted efforts that are being made in the future by the Labour Inspectorate. It is followed up with additional supervision paid by the workplace as well as higher fines for those who do not correct. With this agreement, we make it easier for employers and safety representatives to understand the rules in their area, and we apply the rules more closely to the individual industries. We thus make it simpler, more industry-oriented and easier to work with. Those who want to do well and ensure a good working environment in their company need all the help they need. But I want those who don't want to know that we mean this. It is also important for me to say that in the agreement we have spent some time touching on the psychological working environment, and we will make this area easier to understand and ensure that the Factory Inspectorate has the tools to deal with the challenges they face. I am very much looking forward to following this agreement closely, and I really hope and believe that this agreement will provide a better working environment in the workplace. Then you can ask yourself whether that is enough and whether we are satisfied. In fact, I do not think we should ever do that when it comes to the welfare of all of us, and that is why, of course, the conciliation circle will also meet regularly, as we already do, and follow up closely to this area. I would like to thank the social partners from my side and from the side of the Social Democratic Party for a very, very good work in the Committee of Experts chaired by Pia Gjellerup. The fact that they could make an agreement and land such a good result in such a difficult and complicated area shows just the desire and will on their part. I think that's really good. I would also like to thank all the parties involved in the agreement, because I believe that the working environment must not be a political battleground, but something we land in broad agreement and together will follow closely. With these positive words, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102357	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102401	Thank you. In a sense, I agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur in part of what he says, namely that we must constantly focus on this area. I'd like to know if Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen believes that this will correct the shortcomings of the 2020 plan. Because we still have 40,000 accidents a year, we still have 20,000 occupational sicknesses a year, and that means that it is 60 000 Danes who are totally or partially limited each year in their ability to carry out their work and get a lot of personal pain out of it. I also see that the social partners have actually made a number of comments which are not included in this proposal. I would therefore like to thank the social partners, particularly the trade unions, for still pointing out to us that there are requirements which are not at all in this context. However, does the rapporteur believe that this will change quite a lot on the shortcomings we discovered in 2017 in the 2020 plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102505	I would say that we have followed the agreement of the Committee of Experts quite closely. There are, of course, some minority opinions in it which have not come to a hundred percent with that, I am aware, if that is the case, sir. Christian Juhl is referring to. With regard to whether it follows the 2020 plan, I would much rather say: let us now follow it closely and see if it goes the right way, as it should now. I am more interested in whether the working environment is getting better, whether those out there report back the environmental representatives, the companies that they can see an improvement. I would much rather spend time studying and following up that, as we do in the conciliation circle, rather than going up to 2020 targets. As far as I am concerned, those out there can say to us: 'Try to hear what you have done is right, it works.' I think that's more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102557	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102558	Well, that's exactly what I'm asking. In 2017, we found out that more people are being burdened with mentally poor working conditions, that more people get muscle and skeletal loads, and that's what we need to measure when we make this proposal. After all, for this committee of experts and this conciliation group were set up to change the development that caused more people to be burdened. That is why I am asking: does the rapporteur believe that fewer people are being burdened by this initiative and that we are achieving the objectives set out in the 2020 plan, which are, of course, essential objectives that are precisely about our welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102636	Yeah, I believe this will improve the working environment. Yes, I believe that it improves in relation to the physical and mental aspects; otherwise I would not have entered into the agreement, and the social partners would not have made a joint agreement on it either, i.e. if they did not believe it. If sir... Christian Juhl does not believe in it, he does not believe in the benefits of the social partners, in this case employees, by joining in that agreement. I believe that. I believe they've done the job properly. I hope and believe that this works, but I also have to say that we must of course follow it closely, and if it does not work, then we must come after it again and do something better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102712	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102722	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased to help create better conditions for good and healthy working conditions across the country. For me, it is fundamentally important that all Danes feel a joy of going to work, that they do not distrust because of unhealthy, disturbing or dangerous factors in their immediate environment. We must help to secure that from the political side, and this bill is part of it. With today's bill, we particularly address the Danish Labour Inspectorate's toolbox and fill it with new tools that can be used in the fight against unhealthy and dangerous Danish working environments. It is important for the Left that the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry always have the necessary knowledge and tools to be able to monitor fully the Danish workplaces and working conditions. However, it is not enough to keep an eye on it, because we must also be able to help and support companies through agreements and dialogue and to sanction repeated or dangerous infringements. The bill we are discussing today is part of the agreement on a new and improved work environment and working conditions concluded between the then government and the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. The bill contains several elements, including: that there are some concrete objectives for health and safety at work, a targeted selection of companies for supervision, changed rules for sanctions, among others. higher fines and penalties for companies that have previously violated the Working Conditions Act, better knowledge of the development of health and safety efforts and a clear distribution of roles in the dissemination effort. The proposal we are debating today, by means of the amended rules on sanctions, aims to provide an incentive to comply with the Working Conditions Act while clarifying the rules. The proposal also provides a better knowledge base and more tools for the important social task of the Factory Inspectorate. The Left can, of course, support the proposal as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102929	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128102931	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for coming up with the issue of health and safety at work. I just want to hear about the two areas which the Danish Employers' Association stresses have not been included in the agreement and which are important. One is to ensure that small businesses have better access to advice, for example. to have a consultancy pool of 100 million; kr. from which funds can be sought. This is also something that has been proposed in the committee of experts' proposals. That's one thing. The second point is that this new proposal focuses very much on the need for the parties to play a greater role and to focus on what objectives to set for the effort. Nevertheless, the desire to return 50.4 million has not been introduced. kr. to the parties, i.e. the money that was taken from them under the previous government. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Well, you can't expect that without money you can do a whole lot of things. Now that the social partners agree on the recommendations, how can it be that it is not included?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103034	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103037	There should be no doubt. There should be no doubt at all that in the Left we see the working environment as a very important element. We need to create a secure framework for the Danish companies, for our workers, for those who go to work every day, and we therefore help to secure that with this agreement. It is not certain that we will achieve all the way to the goal, and that is why, as the previous rapporteur also said, we must, of course, follow it closely, and that is what the Left also wants to do. We're keeping a close eye on this. I would like to confirm and continue to point this out to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103113	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103114	But I do not disagree at all with these general remarks. I ask you two specific questions. The DA has said that small businesses find it difficult to understand the complex issues of working conditions and need support for counselling. Counseling is really, really expensive, a consulting consultant costs a lot of money, so they have asked for a pool of 100 million. kr., and then they have asked to get back the money that the previous government took from the parties, namely 50.4 million. kr. Is it not reasonable that we should try to listen to those who have to carry out the task and say that the money should be returned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103151	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103153	Then I just want to make it clear that, of course, this is something we are listening to and, of course, we are continuing our work. This is the first treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103204	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103212	Thank you for that, President. This bill is, after all, a major part of what the Committee of Experts has included in their proposals for a new health and safety legislation that has been worked on. You have made a great deal of effort, and it is also, it can be said, that time has come for us to modernise legislation on working conditions and to tighten up in a great many areas. After all, the legislative proposal has been examined up here by the previous rapporteurs, and I really think it would be a little wrong to start going over it all again and repeating what has been said, so I would just like to say that with this legislative proposal we will have a modernisation of the legislation on working conditions. This does not mean that no further action and changes can be made depending on when or how and how the information comes in and what a review of the work on health and safety also brings with it. But now we need to have the opportunity for it here to come into force and for it to work, and then, of course, we need to look at the experience gained from the new work in the field of health and safety. However, there is no doubt that there are some areas of health and safety legislation on which we have a particular focus. That's one of them. the psychological working environment, and it is wear and tear, so it is not the case that it is not being watched. Of course, we also need to be ready to intervene if there is something that does not match what the expectations have been for the efforts here, but the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103409	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103412	Thank you. Well, I also support the legislative proposals, but I am just wondering if they are at all in line with the problems we are facing. They will improve the working environment a little, yes, but they won't solve the problems we acknowledged in 2017, where all Hundreds of thousands more were burdened by a poor working environment in the mental field and also in the area of muscle and skeleton. Is the rapporteur convinced that these measures will solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103446	Well, well, I don't believe it'll solve it one hundred percent, but it's a good step in that direction. There may still be some problems, and that is also why I say that we must now take advantage of the knowledge we get when this comes into force. And, of course, we must also be ready to intervene if there is something that does not live up to expectations. This may be one of the areas that Mr. Christian Juhl doesn't quite live up to expectations. Of course, we must also be ready to intervene with action in such an area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103520	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103522	Well, I guess it was a realization, that we're probably not gonna make it to the end of this. It is the life and health of living people that we talk about 60,000 people a year. Then we have to do the work as well as we can. If we suspect this isn't going to work, then we're not good at a job. Why has the Danish People's Party refused to follow FH's proposals in this area? There are a number of amendments to this from FH and partly from the Danish Employers' Association, which Dansk Folkeparti does not Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103559	Sir. Christian Juhl knows very well that when you are in such a negotiating situation, you have to reach agreement, and this bill was what the parties behind it were able to agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103614	There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103621	Thank you. In the spring of 2019 a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties agreed to strengthen the work on working conditions, and it is actually very appropriate that we deal with this proposal in the wake of the previous treatment of senior pensions to worn out, because things are inextricably linked. Degradation is a consequence of many years of employment, but it is also a consequence of the conditions under which we work. Overall, the vast majority of Danish jobs are also good and healthy places to go to work, but there are nevertheless figures that indicate that large groups continue to feel mental or physical stress by going to work. Jobs and forms of work are changing rapidly, and efforts in the field of health and safety must ensure that both now and in the future we help prevent people from becoming sick and tired of going to work. I would particularly like to emphasise that the psychological working environment is being lifted and taken seriously. We need to be much better at creating healthy working conditions, even when it comes to the invisible and what can be difficult to measure. It is in everyone's interest to solve health and safety problems, and we therefore welcome the fact that the initiatives really focus on solving problems at the workplace, so that companies are supported in wanting to make an extra effort on the work environment in the form of an agreement with the Factory Inspectorate. It is a balancing approach between continuing to exercise control and sanctioning jobs that repeatedly violate health and safety rules, while at the same time supporting those jobs with health and safety problems that are actually trying to create a good working environment for employees. We hope that the initiatives will help to ensure safe and healthy jobs for all the Liberals and Democrats in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103824	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103827	Thank you. These are good visions, I think. I would like to know whether the rapporteur from the Radicals agrees that it is the work at the workplace that is essential. It is therefore surprising that there is no real change in the way employers and health and safety representatives work together. We are not giving them any better results. You radicals have even contributed to this, not kr. for small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to buy advice, for this is extremely difficult for them to do with a company with five employees, for example. very, very difficult to comprehend the complicated rules that exist. That is why there was a proposal from the parties to get a pool so that you could get better at your work and that is for the companies mentioned by the rapporteur, namely those who want to improve the working environment at their workplace. Why will Radicals not be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103926	Radical Left is really proud and happy to be part of this agreement, which is actually going to improve the working environment, both physical and psychological. We will see that more jobs with problems are being visited and that fewer jobs are being disturbed without problems. So, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Christian Juhl agrees that these are good visions. And I have to say that the agreement adds 450 million. kr. In addition to the Factory Inspectorate, it is after all to be regarded as an improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103957	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128103958	We agree that the work of the Factory Inspectorate is the control of the companies, but that the 100 million. kr., which I am talking about, is an aid to companies that would like to get advice from specialists in order to be able to do the work better even at their own workplace? This means that it is yet another step • it is much, much better than that the Factory Inspectorate comes out only when something is wrong. They have to, but here is an opportunity that both DA and FH have asked for, namely just to get a pool of 100 million. kr., which they could apply for advice in the old days, we had something called BST. Why will Radicals not be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104034	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104035	The Radical Left is involved in this to improve the working environment in the workplace, and I firmly believe that with this agreement we will also see this improvement, both in terms of the physical and the psychological working environment. Then it may well be that it is not all around that all the problems are resolved, and that is why we will continue to meet and follow the work closely, as the previous rapporteur has also said.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104103	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we're moving on to Mrs. Halime Oguz from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104111	Thank you, sir. President. This bill is about the implementation of the Working Conditions Agreement from spring, of which SF is a part. We must improve the working environment in the Danish workplaces. The whole discussion we have had in recent years on wear and tear goes hand in hand with the discussion on working conditions. Because it goes without saying that you are at greater risk of being worn out if the working environment is poor. With the bill, we change, among other things. The Working Conditions Act, so that the Working Conditions Council sets concrete targets for occupational safety and health action at industry level and, above all, tightens the level of fines for breaches of the Working Conditions Act. It should not be worth speculating on bad working conditions. Unfortunately, the Working Conditions Agreement does not solve all the challenges we face with the working environment, but it is a step in the right direction. The SF supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104210	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and now it is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104230	40 000 people in Danish workplaces are exposed to accidents at work each year. 20,000 people are in receipt of an occupational disease. It costs society in the vicinity of 80 billion. kr., and the companies have some huge production losses because skilled employees become unfit for work. In 2017, we clearly saw that there is an increase in the number of people affected by poor working conditions, working under stressful mental health and safety conditions, and working under stressful conditions in terms of muscle and skeletal problems. At that time even the Minister, Mr. Left, was present. Troels Lund Poulsen, aware that it didn't work out. We had to do something, and that is why a committee of experts was set up, and negotiations were held on what I myself participated in and helped to conclude. The conciliation circle has ended up on these proposals, which are improvements, most of them, and...
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104338	Sir. Christian Juhl, I have to interrupt the debates that are taking place in the middle of the Chamber. Bent Bøgsted and Leif Lahn Jensen! Hey! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104351	Thanks, I hope I don't lose time by the others using it. No, certainly not). The conciliation circle has sent some proposals here with the Minister, and these are all improvements, or at least clarifications, to the current situation. I am afraid that we are in a situation where we are far from achieving the targets we had actually set ourselves for 2020. Of course, we will not reach them by 2020, but the reduction of mental stress, the reduction of muscle and skeletal loads and the reduction of serious accidents were the three objectives set out in the 2020 plan. Fortunately, then, we have become wiser when we also have to set targets for the chemical working environment, because there have been some serious scandals. I am afraid that we will not achieve these objectives, even if we add five years to the plan, if we do not take further initiatives than this, and that is why I have argued that we should follow the proposals of the trade unions when we negotiated. There was no sensitivity for this, but I still want to say: it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that we should do so if we do not want to continue to see 40 000 victims of accidents and 20 000 victims of occupational diseases in Denmark. That figure has been almost firm for many, many years, so major initiatives need to be taken. I note that the FH, the former LO, has made a number of amendments and I urge the Minister to incorporate the proposals, all of them, into the final legislative proposal on which we are due to vote at some point. One example: in addition to those I have mentioned, where you do not get the money you need is to remove the supervisory book. It is a book that is in the workplace so that occupational health and safety representatives and employees can see what has come of inquiries from the Danish Labour Inspectorate. It is removed without ensuring that employees are given direct access to see what kind of communication that has been. The least one could expect is that we ensure that the health and safety representative and the employer are totally equal, that the health and safety representative and the employer are always both involved when the Factory Inspectorate is visiting. We agreed on this in 1972 and 1976 when we got the new law, but it's just as slowly was squeezed out, and the health and safety representatives are often only spectators of this only spectators. Both because they don't have rights anymore and because they get too poor an education. There is not one of the points here which strengthens the situation of the health and safety representative in the workplace; on the contrary, there may be a risk that it is more difficult to become a health and safety representative. I would like to ask all parties to consider this, because all parties say: we agree that we have to go the right way, there must be fewer people affected, the working environment must be better and so on. etc. Yeah, but the Band-Aid we put on the broken leg doesn't cure that leg. It is patching up some things, and these are improvements, I agree with that, but they are very, very small improvements. And we haven't solved the task we set ourselves in 2017, with these proposals, even with the announcement we get. Of course there are improvements and we will vote in favour, but I would like to appeal to the people who will again be exposed to stressful working conditions next year and next year. Because we can get much, much longer with this, even without it costing a farm. On the contrary, there are social means to profit from it. Think of the 80 billion. kr. that no one benefits from and is being used today to patch up people who get hurt at their workplace. It is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of all of us. If we do not take more initiatives and invest in saving the 80 billion. kr., well, then we don't take responsibility in my opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104744	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments, and that is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr McMillan-Scott. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104755	The bill translates the agreement on a new and improved work environment and arranged conditions in the labour market, which is an agreement back from our reign in April 2019, which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind. A good working environment is important for everyone. This agreement, based on the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on the investigation of the work environment, is intended to contribute to a good working environment around the Danish workplaces. The agreement means, among other things, that in the future the Working Environment Council will set specific targets for occupational health and safety efforts at industry level and that advice demands will be changed to skills requirements to take account of the different needs of companies for skills development. In addition, it will be easier for the Labour Inspectorate to obtain and transmit data in connection with their supervisory tasks. The Factory Inspectorate must be able to carry out their important role, and that is what this agreement gives them. Furthermore, it is important for the Conservative People's Party that legislation in this area is becoming clearer and clearer, and we firmly believe that this agreement is a step in the right direction in order to achieve this objective. A good working environment is important to us. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104920	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128104925	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think there is a good recognition in Conservatives that more work is needed than was done under the old government. That's the way it is, I'd like to admit. Conservatives often say that they are the employers' party; they would certainly want to defend the interests of companies, and when employers ask for a small pool for small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to provide advice and to buy advice so that they can do their job better themselves, why do Conservatives reject it? It is the same when the parties ask for the money back • the 50.4 million. kr., which has been taken from them to party cooperation so that the two parties can work more closely together and create an even better working environment. That's relatively small amounts. Why do Conservatives reject the payment of the two amounts? They do, of course, mean that we can get companies out there and the social partners to act? They are the ones who have to act before the Factory Inspectorate has to go out there and ban any dangerous work. Then we really do preventive work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105030	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105032	When you negotiate, everyone can't get their way. The parties involved in the conciliation have each had large parts of their wishes met. We believe that this is an important step in the right direction, and when both the DA and the trade union movement agree to the agreement, Mr. Christian Juhl also be satisfied with the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105100	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105102	One thing, of course, is to be satisfied and to say that we are voting in favour, but another thing is that there are people who have their health ruined, even today and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, because this agreement is not ambitious enough. FH and DA stress in the comments that we are not going to achieve this. Now all the parties have washed their hands and said that the others did not want us to give this money to the parties and to give advice to small and medium-sized enterprises. After all, it cannot be everyone who wanted to, and it has not become part of the agreement anyway. I know who it is, and that is why I ask: why will Conservatives not be involved in granting the two amounts?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105141	It is good to be ambitious in all aspects of life, but we think it is a good deal. Yes, DA and FH have some comments, but they agree to the agreement, and we think that is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105155	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Seligman's question. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105212	Thank you. It was long negotiations in the Ministry of Employment which resulted in this agreement. There were plenty of theme meetings and lots of negotiations; it was a huge puzzle that had to go up to create better health and safety legislation. There are, of course, lots of pieces in that puzzle. One of the things that we are most happy about in the Alternative is that we got more focus on the psychological injuries. We think they've been downgraded. It can be a little harder to identify stress, it's easier with a broken leg, but stress and psychological work injuries are increasing, so we're extremely happy that they've got such a big focus in this deal. In addition, there are many other things we are happy about: concrete targets at industry level, targeted selection of companies for supervision, the possibility for companies to make agreements with the Factory Inspectorate on improvements to the working environment; clearing and clarifying rules so that people understand them; payment for supervision in case of repeated violations with significant risk to employees; increased fines for serious breaches of the Working Conditions Act, etc. I really believe that the reason why there are so many good, concrete elements in the agreement is that the social partners have been close. It's basically those who have recommended the vast majority of these things, and the vast majority of things have come along. So it has been a long process and we in the alternative are actually really happy to be part of such a great deal of agreement here that we think makes a lot of sense, so of course we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105347	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105350	There are also good things to be happy about in this agreement, but I would like to hear from the rapporteur: when you increase the fines from DKK 20,000. ed Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105419	Now I am an employer myself, and the fact that you are very, very busy making money and very busy taking very little account of your employees, I think the fucking language is a stigmatisation of employers in general. There are some who are not good enough to look after their employees, and it is clear that their fines must rise. If it does not make an impression, then we will have to talk further and follow it closely and see if they need to be increased. But it is also a signal to employers that this is going to be more expensive now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105452	It helps when you apologize for your own language. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105456	I agree with that. We should not stigmatise all employers; there are also some who have it under control, otherwise it would look even wilder. But there are 60 000 people who suffer damage to their health every year. These are many people in a small country like Denmark. And a number of these injuries, not to say the vast majority, could have been prevented. If the rapporteur then says that it is a good thing that we are now setting national targets, sectoral targets and that they have to be implemented in the workplace, what does the rapporteur say about the comments made by the Working Environment Council, where all parties are sitting, that there is no coherence in these things and that there is no coordination between the different levels? Where is the initiative to ensure this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105535	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105538	Well, that we couldn't have it and other things, like Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl also mentions, with, may upset me. Should I say no to an agreement to which the questioner also says yes and which is so good on so many points? No, I won't. Well, I'd rather say that we should then try to improve it along the way, and it's always give and take. I think this has been really, really good. And in fact, I would also like to thank Mr. Christian Juhl for sitting so long. Many of the ideas that Mr. Christian Juhl came before Mr. Christian Juhl was no longer involved in the debate, has actually affected this in a positive direction, so I would like to sign for that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105612	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105619	Thank you. New citizens didn't sit in the Folketing when this deal was made. We are now negotiating L 65. I would like to make a few comments on the increase in the fine rate, because it is a symbolic increase in amount. However, since there is still an increase in fines, I am somewhat surprised that at the same time it is said that it does not have an economic impact on the business community, as I can just read it. It will, of course, if it is the case that the fines have to rise and if there are some who do not follow the rules out there. But it may be that we can get closer to it in a committee procedure. Otherwise, it is basically good things. A good and safe working environment is something that we should expect from the Danish Parliament that is at the Danish workplaces. There are very, very many employers out there who are doing a good job and who are working hard to make sure that their employees are well. There are also jobs where there is room for improvement. I think everyone recognizes that. We recognize this in the new citizens, and so do the social partners, in other words that there is always room for improvement. This bill is taking some steps in the right direction, which is why we are also immediately in favour of what is happening in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105749	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105803	Thank you. There is a feeling that politics is the art of compromise. Several of the speakers in today's debate have said that there are many fine elements, but that there are also thistles in the agreement and some things that you may not be entirely satisfied with. That's the way it is in politics. This is also true of the Liberal Alliance. There are some things that we would like to see a little different. However, I have not really come up here to ask for forgiveness, but to say that, of course, we support the agreements we have made during the previous parliamentary term, and this also applies to this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105834	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128105847	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for a good discussion, thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments on this, in the opinion of the government, very good and ambitious draft legislation. It is an important priority for the government that the working environment in Denmark is in order. It must be safe, safe and healthy to go to work for all employees. That is why I am also pleased with the broad political agreement we reached in the spring on a new and improved work environment and working conditions. With the first reading today, we are taking an important step in the implementation of this political agreement. With the new law, we hand out to the companies that make an effort and actively work for the good working environment, while at the same time hitting harder on those who do not adequately ensure the employees a proper working environment. We do this, among other things, by making the work of the Factory Inspectorate even more targeted at those companies with the greatest risk of occupational health and safety problems. Fortunately, there are a great many companies who do well and who actively work with safety and health and constantly improve the working environment. With the new law, we will give these companies a better framework for continuing and developing their work on health and safety, as is best suited to them. The Factory Inspectorate's toolbox will be expanded to allow companies to enter into agreements with the Factory Inspectorate on improving the working environment. At the same time, the current call for advice is changed to a requirement of competence which offers greater flexibility and takes account of the different needs of companies for skills development. However, companies that do not and do not want the good working environment must also be able to feel that it does not pay to put the health and safety of their employees at risk. We therefore propose that the level of fines be increased and that particularly repeated or serious violations of the Working Conditions Act be punished more severely. With the bill, we also introduce as something new that companies that do not have control of the working environment and which are banned by the Labour Inspectorate should pay a fee for the subsequent enhanced supervision. Overall, the Labour Inspectorate bill provides new and better tools to support the good working environment in companies. However, in order to succeed and improve the working environment across the country's workplaces, it is essential that all companies and actors take joint action. I am therefore very pleased that the social partners will have an important and prominent role in setting targets for the working environment. We are going to start this after collective bargaining in the private labour market. I would like to thank you for a good discussion today and, of course, I will respond to follow-up questions in the further consideration in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110130	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110135	Thank you for the Minister's statement. I therefore agree with most of those comments and I know that the Minister has inherited a conciliation which could be much better, in my opinion, if we had the ambitions and the courage to do so. In fact, in my opinion, we will fail up to 60 000 people if we do not do it better than this. I don't believe that this will end with us solving the problems we set out to solve in 2017. However, I think we'll solve a small corner of them agree and that's why it's an improvement. I'd like to hear something. The FH has made a number of comments in the consultation round, and one of the things is that the Minister and the conciliation circle have deviated from the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, at least in one area, and that is where companies have to pay fees. The Committee of Experts recommends that this should be done in the case of repeated infringements, and the minister and the conciliation group, as has now been done, are content with the fact that this is done only by means of bans. Why this weakening of the conciliation circle's very cautious bid?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110249	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110252	First of all, I would like to say first of all that I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Christian Juhl so far that I do not believe that one should conceive oneself that this health and safety agreement and the new law alone will eradicate all health and safety problems we have in Denmark. I think that would be both naive and blue-eyed to imagine. However, I sincerely believe that there is a marked change of course from at least the last four years, when a great deal of money has been saved at the Factory Inspectorate and, at the same time, some choices are made about stricter supervision, where it is that we look at the level of fines for those companies that do not manage the health and safety challenges and that this can help to raise the working environment for all employees. The conciliation circle has deviated, what can be said, what was in the original agreement, as far as the fines are concerned, because it proved to be not a legally viable model, and then it has been adjusted on the basis of the same principles, and there has been agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110355	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110414	The minister mentions the Factory Inspectorate... I'm getting a little disturbed by this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110429	Yeah, this isn't proper working conditions for anyone. I think we're just gonna take a deep breath until we figure out what's going on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110438	I'll try again. The Minister says that the Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened, and I think that is a good thing, but it is a step two. Well, step one is what happens at work. I hope we all agree on that's where the real preventive work is, that is, when employers and employees work actively together to get a good and safe working environment...
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110456	Sir. Christian Juhl, we're gonna stop for two minutes until we get this whole thing straightened out, and then we're gonna repeat the question when we get it straightened out. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110558	The Minister said that the Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened, and of course they are, not quite as the FH has recommended, but we have made a good deal of progress with the new recruitments that are coming now and also with some of the tools. I agree with that. But the real effort, the preventive action, we should say that the control is after all the two stages at work between employers and employees, and I am therefore surprised that the Minister has not taken the two agreed proposals from the parties, namely the 100 million. kr. for an advisory pool and the 50.4 million. kr., which has been stolen directly from the social partners by the previous government, with. Why have they not been included in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110639	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110641	I mean, two things. The first is that there are other rapporteurs, who were also part of the agreement, who have explained in various ways that what is in the agreement and now also in what we are discussing today was what could be agreed on without having to explain such finer mathematics in it. The second is that, in the eyes of the government, our level of ambition ends with regard to measures to improve the working environment, not at the time of the adoption of this new health and safety legislation. Even now, in the discussions on a draft Finance Act, we have a proposal on extending the employer-paid period of sickness benefit, which should also act as an incentive to prevent long-term illness and a poor working environment at work. So we will do more if we have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110729	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110755	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128110804	It's only been a week since I stood here on the same platform and suggested giving higher benefits to families with children who are having a hard time. So it's only been a week since I stood here on the platform talking about justice and duty. The right to a benefit that you can live on and that does not make you live in poverty, but the duty to be available and to do your best to get jobs or education and, in the long term, to contribute to our society. It is precisely the words, the right and the duty that have built up the society that we have today. If we are still to maintain faith in our welfare societies with the benefits that can be obtained if we cannot support ourselves, we must also ensure that people are available and ensure that we avoid social fraud and cheating. If we do not do so, we will lose the faith and the desire to preserve a society such as this which actually works. The problem with the whole area of sanctions today is that it is difficult to understand, not very simple, and that there are still some who believe that they do not need to join the community and still cheat the rest of us. Therefore, we must always ensure a more simple system and ensure that people are properly guided so that they know exactly the consequences of not being available. That is why we are also proposing better guidance than there is today for these people, a guide that is in such a way that the individual citizen can see exactly what consequences it will have if he or she does not do what he or she has to do. That is why there are also far fewer penalties, from 80 to 4, and thus much simpler rules that can be understood. The draft law also makes us harder on those who go abroad, at the same time as they receive a benefit and are actually not available, and on those who have uninformed work while receiving a benefit. In other words, they are the ones who cheat the rest of society to get more money for themselves. We will not accept that and it must be stopped. I can also mention that some of what was important to us in the negotiations, which were, of course, part of the negotiations with the previous government and which are included in the draft law, is that we must always say that it is very important to take care of the readiness for activity, the weakest, those who cannot respond to the sanctions. We have to say that over and over again. In fact, I think that the social workers in their response to the hearing say this quite rightly and very precisely, namely that they welcome the fact that the draft law states that active unemployed people must continue to be taken into account and that it must always be assessed whether a sanction promotes availability and brings the citizen closer to the labour market, in other words that it must always promote availability and bring citizens closer to the labour market. Because it is by no means our intention to hit those who are weak and who cannot be available and who may not be able to respond to this at all. On the contrary, we want to hit those who do it out of bad will and who either want to cheat society or do nothing to bring themselves closer to the labour market and become self-supporting. In the negotiations, the Social Democratic Party also expressed a desire to ensure that the municipalities comply with the sanctions that exist, i.e. that they sanction when it is needed not too much, not too little. In other words, they are also looking after the weakest. At the same time, in the debate, we also wanted a hotline in the Ministry to help municipalities fight against Syrian warriors. So fight against it, that they get a benefit when they go out to fight the country. We cannot accept that, we must not accept it, and we must oppose it as much as we can. So in these words we believe that we will have a better and fairer system, a system that is much easier to understand, and therefore the Social Democrats will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111143	There is one brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111149	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is true that the Danish Social Advisor's Association welcomes the fact that the bill says that special attention should be paid to the unemployed, and I agree with the rapporteur that we do not want to hit any of the most vulnerable in our society with sanctions, because we know what the consequences are. However, if we are actually looking at the elements of the draft law, I think it is actually entirely related to the sanctions that are being tightened up, among other things. If you lose your help for 3 months, you should also include activity preparation. Will the rapporteur elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111229	What is also stated in the draft law in many places is that we must constantly take into account the readiness to act. It also says that we need to give proper guidance, especially those who may not understand it very well. And then it says that we must also continue to ensure that, if we sanction the readiness to act, we must make personal contact with them and, if we cannot, get hold of their mentors or their families. We have to do everything we can to make these people understand what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111254	Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111258	So, despite the fact that we, among others, are... has the report by Deloitte, which shows that it will not get a closer link with the labour market to be sanctioned, despite the criticism from the Danish Social Advisor Association and several others who criticise this part in the hearings, then one would like to be specific when it comes to tightening sanctions against the ready to act, but be a little more loose with some fine wording when it comes to their protection. I don't think that's entirely related.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111324	No, I am sure the rapporteur does not think so, but what is connected is that we must ensure that we take care of the weakest here. But I also have to say that, of course, we must ensure that those who cheat on the weight, those who do not want to work, those who are not available are hit. We simply will not tolerate this. They must be available and they must have sanctions if they do not. With this bill, we also guarantee the weakest, and if we do not, then we will just have to meet again and say: what is happening then? Note, too, that we are making a benchmarking exercise in relation to the municipalities, that is to say, we are monitoring whether the municipalities are doing it properly. And those who sanction too much in relation to the weakest must also come after.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111400	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111405	Thank you. Now there are a number of experiments around the world which are based on finding out whether people really want to work, i.e. whether they need to be sanctioned at all. There has been a very exciting experiment in Finland, where 2 000 people were exempted from all controls and sanctions, and then there was a control group of 2 000 who continued in the old system. It turned out that those who were not forced or sanctioned in any way sought as much work as those who remained in the old system. Perhaps one could imagine that the time for sanctions and justice and duty etc. Somehow people are leaving because they actually want to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111450	Perhaps a member of the Alternative can understand that I cannot. I clearly believe that right and duty still apply, and with right and duty I also believe that you should of course have the benefits you are entitled to and have the right to. And it's important. I also stood here a week ago and raised some of them. However, I also believe that we must be available at all times, and I actually believe that sanctions help here. Yes, most of the unemployed will then work; most of those who go out there want to work I meet lots of them. But should we not also be honest and say that there are also some who would like to cheat on the weight? Can't we be honest? We all know them too. And those who do should not be allowed to do so if they want a benefit. Then, of course, they must be available, and if they are not available, we have the sanctions. We must help them all we can; we must do everything we can to help them in their work, but they must be available, and they must also help them. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111534	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111538	In the alternative, we believe that those who might cheat are so infinite, infinitely few that we will never need them. So we are spending so much resources to justify an incentive employment policy because of some who may be so few that the question is whether they exist at all. We can, for example. look at Kalundborg, where the 100 most vulnerable cash aid recipients were excluded for all types of sanctions, all types of claims, all types of coercion and also the accompanying administration, and this actually meant that in Kalundborg at that time there was 60%. of the most vulnerable in activation versus 30 per cent. at national level. Isn't it a little interesting how people turn towards work and activation when they get to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111619	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111622	I cannot help thinking that if you think that there are so few cheats and so few who are not available, why are you against sanctions? Then we do not use sanctions, so if everyone is available and there is nothing wrong, sanctions will just not be applied, and I am comfortable with that. If you really have the attitude, as Mr. Torsten Gejl has, you can vote for this, because that means nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111642	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111654	Thank you. We say it over and over again: justice and duty go hand in hand. And although many Danes may think that it is a pussy more than an expression of an actual attitude, there is weight behind the words. We have a welfare society where you can enjoy, if you need it, but where you also have the duty to provide as soon as you can. This is a balance that we must constantly take into account and adjust, and we do so with this legislative proposal. The main aim of the draft law is to simplify and transparentise the sanctions that cash benefit recipients may face if they are not actually available for the labour market. The ambition is clear: if you are not quite ready to provide, you should not be able to enjoy it to the same extent. Today, the system of sanctions is too opaque and incalculable. It is unclear to citizens and municipalities what the consequences are when you do not meet the requirements when you are on cash benefits. This means that the municipalities find it difficult to sanction citizens who do not comply with their part of the social contract, and that is not sustainable. That is why, with this legislative proposal, we are ensuring that we make the system of sanctions more simple. Specifically, we go from 80 to 4 penalties. Then it is easier for the municipal case officer and the citizen to see that things are going right. This increases legal certainty for citizens and municipalities. So in general, the Left considers the bill to be a good one and a step in the right direction, and I have to say that the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111840	There is a brief comment from Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111845	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says this fairly, and I want to hear whether the rapporteur agrees that if there is a reasonable reason why we cannot come forward, for example health reasons, which were part of the law before and which this bill proposes to move out of the law, then it must be taken into account, for example for example. health, in relation to whether you can show up in, for example, the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111915	Yeah, but I think that's what we're doing with this bill, too. We are, in fact, giving the municipality the opportunity to free the citizen concerned from sanctions if it does not promote their availability. We have not maintained ten particular reasons. We have thus given the municipalities the freedom to assess the individual's reasons for being absent, i.e. to assess whether there is a factual reason and therefore not to sanction. So I kind of think we've found a good balance with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128111957	Victoria Velasquez wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112001	Thank you. And I think that part is very good too, but I wonder whether it would not be reasonable for some of these people whom this law will affect, perhaps with aggressive force or on the edge of society, to have a right in law that one can hold onto knowing when one has a reasonable reason, for example. health reasons, not to be there. I just don't understand why you want to take it out of the law. Would it not be a good idea for them to actually have legal basis for the reasonable reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112037	I think that we have given a freedom by saying that it is no longer only ten specific reasons why we should not be sanctioned. There is thus an opportunity for the citizen and the municipality to agree that if this does not promote one's employment, then there is no need to sanction it. And I'd like to give that freedom to both the citizen and the municipality. So I think that we are simplifying it with this bill and that we are also making it more transparent for the system and for the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112116	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112119	Thank you. After all, the Left is a liberal party that wants to give back to the citizen the responsibility for the lives of the citizen, and that fits well with the fact that we live in a community of confidence and that we are one of the countries in the world where we believe and trust each other most in authority and citizens. How is it, then, that in this trust society and liberal society we have to have an employment system based on coercion, where we deprive people of authority over their own lives and make them a number in a queue and expose them to a whole lot of things that barely make sense to them? Why is it that the Left also does not show people the confidence it is to say: you want to contribute. You want to contribute to society. You want to find work? Instead of meeting all
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112213	I think that we should bear in mind, as I said in my speech, that this is about right and duty, that we have a welfare system based on the fact that if you are entitled to a benefit, you get it, but if you are not entitled to a benefit, you should not have it either. I think with this bill we'll find a fine balance. We place greater emphasis on guidance. We are simplifying, and this also strengthens the legal certainty of the individual citizen. Then we also stress that, as a municipality, it is possible to start from having to agree with the citizen, that if this does not promote the citizen's access to the labour market, then there is no need as a municipality to sanction it either. So I think this has a nice balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112301	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112304	I believe that in the concept of law and duty, many serious crimes have been committed against citizens. There is a mistrust in it and it is as if it gives the unemployed the responsibility for unemployment, but unemployment is not the fault of the unemployed. Unemployment is part of the market mechanism and will always be large or small. We must be careful that we do not make it sound as if unemployment is the fault of the unemployed on the right and duty issue. And if we have not gone too far with justice and duty, for example. The Council of Social Affairs Ministers says that it is potentially harmful to the socially vulnerable and creates the possibility of further marginalisation when we further tighten the sanction screw?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112341	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112344	That is also why the municipality must make a concrete assessment of whether a sanction would promote a citizen's availability in relation to the labour market. That is absolutely crucial. That is what we have put the emphasis on, and what we have spent a great deal of time discussing in the circle of agreements. So I think it has found a fine balance, and we are putting this freedom and simplification to the municipalities and to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112411	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112413	Thank you. We know that a significant part of this social fraud is committed by foreigners, i.e. people who have been allowed to come to the country, and the thanks to the Danes and to society are that you cheat and deceive with what you get. Instead of all these patch solutions, would it not be better, easier and cheaper if it were simply said that foreigners who come to the country should support themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112451	As a starting point, that is what we are saying. Denmark must be open to those who can and will; you must be here for a certain amount of time, you have to work, and if you work, you can also have access to unemployment benefits. You can't just go on cash assistance, either, the moment you step down on Danish soil. I think that we have gradually secured our welfare system in a sensible way, and then we have also made this agreement, which among other things. emphasises that there must also be consistency if you cheat because it weakens confidence in our welfare society, and the Left does not want to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112531	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112533	With all due respect, we are not talking about immigration into the labour market. Here we are talking about people, the vast majority of whom come here via asylum and family reunifications, and there we can only see that a significant proportion of them also commit social fraud. In the latest example from a check at Copenhagen Airport, we could see that those who were taken represented a much larger proportion than the proportion they represent in the population. I say to the Left that we could avoid all of this if we were merely to say that foreigners should support themselves, because that may be what the Left is saying, but that is not what we are doing in our actions. For that would be a motion for a resolution or a legislative proposal. If it had been the policy of the Left, when you had the power of government, you would have done this with DF as its parliamentary basis and I am sure that DF would have voted for it and then you could have got it adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112618	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112620	So, in this agreement itself, we have agreed to maintain airport control, which I also understand the rapporteur thinks is a good arrangement. With this control, we ensure that you cannot believe that you can be on a public service here in Denmark and then go on holiday in your home country. If you come to this country, we have an integration benefit that is not at the same level as a cash aid, and I think it is a fine model we have found.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112653	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128112701	Thank you for that, President. This bill on sanctions can be said a lot about. There have been many tightenings with the bill, but basically one can say that the bill should be infinitely irrelevant. There is one condition that it doesn't matter to make, and it's the old proverb that says do your duty, and demand your right, and if everyone did it, it doesn't matter to make this bill, but that's not how the world is knitted together. We see a great deal of fraud and cheating going on. An example, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentioned is from the Airport Supervisory Authority. It was something that the Danish People's Party introduced with the previous government: that it was tightened up because we could see there was fraud. If people in the municipalities do what they're required to do, this law will never mean anything. But reality is not like that. The reality is that there are a lot of people who try to cheat and fail to do their duty, but yet they demand what they think they are entitled to, or they do nothing and just accept without saying anything. Therefore, this proposal is whether they need to be tightened up, and there are a lot of good measures in it, while, of course, it also ensures that the citizen is heard if there is anything. It is not the case that you simply have to punish a citizen without being consulted, because there may be valid reasons why you cannot participate in a conversation or in an activation offer. That is why, of course, we should not be punished without the opportunity to explain why. I do not want to punish someone who is quite ill and is in a hospital, but we have heard examples that people have been summoned for interview anyway. That's not gonna happen. And if you have a death in the family that is the reason why you cannot participate in, for example. You don't have to be punished for a conversation. There may be many valid reasons why you cannot participate. But first of all, of course, you have to do your duty, and then you can demand your right afterwards, and then you will be free from sanctions. The sanctions that apply are avoided if you have had a stay abroad and have not been allowed to do so, if you have not signed a declaration and if you do not comply with the requirement of availability, then you will not be allowed to do so. So there are many good ways in which it can be said: why is it that people try to evade the duty they have to society when society gives them a service that they can benefit from while trying to cheat? So if it were the case that citizens in future did their duty so that they could claim their right, they would never be affected by this legislation. Unfortunately, however, there are a lot of people who do not, and so there are a lot of people who will actually be affected by this legislation. There is the example of supervision at the airport, a good example of how many people are actually caught. There is just one more thing in it, because it was actually agreed that they could take the Foreigners' Authority to check whether they had a residence permit and the right to be there, but it may not have really made it through yet. But we have to take this with the Minister, so why they write that they must not check when they have the opportunity to take the Foreigners' Board with them for checks. However, we in the Danish People's Party generally believe that the sanctions that we are now implementing are good. I should also like to say that there is the change that municipalities no longer have to pay a death allowance. It's going to the state. So it is a relief for the municipalities that they should not think about it in this context. So there is something else good, but otherwise it is sanctions that lie in this, and the Danish People's Party can of course support this proposal. However, as I said, it should not be necessary to lay down such comprehensive rules on sanctions, but that shows the reality is just necessary. So the best Christmas wish one could have was that people and citizens did what they had a duty to do before they demanded their right. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113159	There is a brief comment on Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113204	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I also think it would have been good if it had actually been made a statement on the scale and examined the need for these sanctions, so we knew what we were working on. However, I have a question in relation to the part about housing support rules that is changing in relation to sanctions. After all, we have a principle in social legislation that we must do as much as possible to enable the citizen to stay in his accommodation. We know that having a home means a great deal and that the consequences of being homeless are really, really great. That is why I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether there can be no possibility of changing that part of the agreement, because even the Danish Social Advisor Association and many more organisations criticise it precisely and say directly that this will mean that more people will become homeless. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur will be willing to see whether we could change that part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113257	I can't imagine that, because if the citizens did what they had to do, they wouldn't be affected by the housing benefits. If they lived up to the requirements, they would not be affected at all by the housing benefits. It is precisely designed to ensure that they are not punished first in one area, and then they are said to receive more in housing benefits. If you do what you're supposed to do from the start, you won't get hit by the housing benefits either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113320	Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113324	I am sure that the rapporteur is also aware that there may be many reasons why the vulnerable citizens, the activation apparatus, who may be in the category of activation due to illness or other things, have not been able to show up or comply with this obligation, which is also being tightened up with tougher sanctions in this proposal. But I am thinking basically that if we want to look ahead and actually try to help people to get an education, get into the labour market or become part of the community and have some legs to stand on, should we not ensure that the elementary and fundamentals of housing are preserved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113403	Well, that is precisely why it is also stated in the legislation that you must not sanction a citizen until he has been consulted, because there may be a valid reason why you cannot live up to it, and then, of course, you should not be penalised. That is why it is also pointed out in the legislation that you must not punish a citizen if you have not heard the citizen about why he has not appeared or participated in something. There may be many valid reasons, as the rapporteur also says. There may be countless valid reasons why you cannot participate, and the municipality must be prepared for this before it punishes, otherwise the municipality will do something illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113435	Then it's Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113438	Thank you. I know that the rapporteur shares my and New Citizens' views that we have massive problems with foreigners in Denmark. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur also shares the view of New Citizens that foreigners coming to Denmark, for example. Through asylum and family reunification and in other ways, we must support ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113458	Well, if they come to Denmark and they can support themselves and they get the right to be here, we have to take that with us, because you shouldn't just open up and say that everyone has access, but they should have the right to be here. But you should not just come in and think that you can be allowed to be in Denmark and benefit from the benefits. The Danish People's Party wanted no one to come to Denmark so that an end was put to the approach. We don't need to get anybody in, and if someone comes and they can support themselves and they get the right to be here, then it's something else. Otherwise, however, we should like to see it stopped so that no one enters Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113536	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113539	Will the DF be able to support a resolution which said that public services can only be provided to Danish citizens and therefore not to foreigners who come here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113550	I think we need to see that resolution first, because if we have given them the right to be here, we also have an obligation to provide them with support at the same time. So we shall see the motion for a resolution before we take a final decision on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113606	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113618	Thank you. In the bill, it is understood, tightened rules on sanctions in the cash assistance system must ensure continued confidence and support for the Danish welfare system, including the safety net for citizens who need help. I will allow myself to cast doubt on that. Allow me to cast doubt on whether sanctions against citizens who need special help restore confidence in the safety net. On the contrary, I would venture to claim that it is precisely by dealing with benefit recipients who are struggling with both the one and the other that we show why the Danish welfare system is unique and worth protecting. There is no doubt that social fraud must have consequences, of course, but the proposal here contains a number of measures which, in all likelihood, are going to be adversely affected. The Danish Social Advisor Association and the Council of Social Affairs Vulnerables point out that it is not only the unemployed who abuse the cash assistance system that will be affected, but also the cash aid recipients who are actually trying to be law-abiding in a system that for them acts as a complex cash assistance system. There is also a significant group of cash benefits recipients with complex social problems such as: a problem of drug abuse, serious mental illness or poor physical health. Sanctions against this group will lead to a worsening of their already vulnerable situation and they will probably be pushed further away from employment. The text of the agreement states that special consideration will be given to this group, but this does not appear to be the case in the implementation of the agreement. In addition, the proposal constitutes a deterioration in the legal status of beneficiaries because the list of reasonable grounds for rejecting or terminating an offer is abolished and instead it is left to the experts to assess any reasonable grounds, for example, for the purposes of: rejecting a job offer. The appeal for beneficiaries is further aggravated by the initiative to allow municipalities, in the context of sanction decisions, to send party hearing and decision in the same letter, where the decision is implemented, if the citizen does not make comments within the time limit for replying. At the same time we see a dilution of Danish values. They are watered down by the imposition of a symbolic political requirement for foreigners to put an autograph on a citizenship statement to show that they support the values of Danish society. It is distrust of citizens with a foreign background, and it is a dilution of Danish values that it can be reduced to a signature. In the Radical Left, we want to help look at how more social fraud can be eliminated, but we are not going to do so by shooting at recipients of benefits in the hope of hitting some of the right people. That is why the Radical Left intends to vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113917	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128113931	I would like to start by stating and stressing that the SF is clearly against social fraud and cheating, and I believe that we all are in fact in this Chamber. We also think that the part of the legislative proposal on simplifying the system of sanctions is sensible, because the system is difficult to see through today. Having said that, there is a reason why the SF is not included in the agreement concluded between the bourgeois parties and the Social Democratic Party, because while simplifying the sanctions, they are being increased. We are opposed to this, and we can see that many organisations also express criticism and concern in their hearing responses. With the higher sanctions, we risk making already vulnerable people even more vulnerable. In addition, there is the introduction of stern letters which send the hearing and decision of the parties in the same letter, and we doubt that vulnerable citizens understand that they have a real opportunity to object. In general, there are several places where we are concerned about the legal certainty of citizens. At the same time, we also think that the whip has been ridden for a very long time after the recipients of the benefits, who are constantly being suspicious while bandits in suits go free. Therefore, the SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114117	More than two years have passed since this agreement, from which the legislative text comes, was adopted. And I hope that time has given rise to reflection and that the parties to the agreement behind it will reconsider whether all the elements are really something they want to adopt. I am deeply, deeply concerned about the consequences of this agreement. The stricter sanctions will affect some of those in our society, which are the most vulnerable citizens, while at the same time weakening legal certainty. There are fine terms in the agreement that can sound good. No inappropriate sanctions, especially against vulnerable unemployed people. Of course, the vision and the spirit of that sentence are in complete agreement. But if we go into detail and look at what elements are in the agreement when it becomes concrete then the opposite happens. Despite the fact that time and again we are witnessing that a significant part of the municipalities' sanctions are wrong, the agreement does not provide for increased supervision of local authorities' practices. There it isn't concrete. Instead, however, it becomes extremely concrete when the parties to the agreement have chosen to tighten up sanctions, to make them higher and to simplify them in a way that, as a citizen, we cannot defend ourselves in the same way as before. We know that sanctions have horrible consequences. For more people, this has led to homelessness with consequent consequences. And that concern is supported by several organisations; we mentioned earlier the Danish Social Advisor Association and others. And even if you were to get the help and complaint, what more have you said you can do, even if you could find the profit and complaint and you should be successful, then you cannot roll away the consequences of homelessness with retroactive effect. And that would be a disaster. The fact that you can just go in there and say, well, that's right, we were wrong, doesn't change the past and the situation of the citizen. That is why we also think that the part where you as a citizen are hit so hard the second time, for example. In the case of a failure to do so, as was previously mentioned, if it was repeatedly in relation to fulfilling one's obligation to make available to the public, it is contrary to common sense as to what kind of citizen we are dealing with and how to create a process that will enable the citizen to have better living conditions and better living conditions. Then you just say, "Well, we want to sanction immediately." It doesn't make sense for the hammer to fall like that. And that is where we are talking about the citizens losing their help for three months. That's quite a lot, isn't it? In addition, we have a report from Deloitte that shows that you are not getting closer to the labour market by being sanctioned. So why is it actually that we want to continue and continue to sanction further? I simply do not understand that, in other words, we want to punish someone who is in such a vulnerable position. And it is in the same way when we talk about simplifications: when we look at what parts are simplified, it is often the part that concerns the legal certainty of the citizen. For example: is the part one has chosen to simplify, the reasonable reasons why one cannot appear as a citizen, and one takes it out. And I'm just thinking that it's something that matters so much when you're in such a vulnerable situation, that there's a legal basis, that you have a right that you know you can stick to and also use in your casework or your caseworker, for example. if your health deteriorates, so that it is not up to the discretion of the caseworker, whether it is one part on one day and then the other part on the other day. But the worst thing in terms of legal certainty is that the parties to the agreement will now introduce that decision and consultation of the parties will be sent in the same letter. It is therefore a serious attack on the legal certainty of citizens and the protection afforded by the administrative law today. In practice, this may mean that the hearing of the parties is suspended, and it is already problematic that sanctions are taken in the way they do, where the situation is not always fully clear. And that is why we just know that in so many cases it has a huge significance, that you actually hear the citizen and there is better time for you to find out: Whoa, what has happened here? and make sure that you help the citizen as best you can. I guess that's our common interest. And that is also what I stand by: I have to believe that we have a common desire in this Chamber to help these people and not push them further away with sanctions and shake their legal certainty. That's why I'm not giving up yet, even though some of you haven't given me the full support of my questions today. I look forward to that work and I hope we can change something about the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114617	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114627	This bill is part of the implementation of the agreement on simpler and stricter sanctions, enhanced control of cheating and fewer error payments. It is an agreement that we reached when we sat in government, and we did so together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. Further elements are also included which the government has agreed with the parties to the agreement. This agreement contains a number of initiatives to help simplify and tighten up the rules on sanctions in the cash assistance system, so that municipalities will be able to manage the rules more easily and make fewer mistakes. In addition, the rules must support the fact that citizens are actually available for the labour market or an effort to bring them closer to this. The agreement also aims to create more and better control over the payment of benefits. It is important that people can have confidence that the municipalities are doing their jobs properly, and this agreement will hopefully contribute to this. Many municipalities have their own digging groups, some who are trying to catch fraud, and they should be commended for that. But they must also have more tools in relation to sanctions. In cases where the rules have not been complied with, there must be clear and consistent sanctions. The sanctions must be speeded up, the use of tighter sanctions must be extended and simplified and guidance simplified. This is what this agreement contributes to, and we in the Conservative People's Party very much welcome it. That is why we support the proposal. And I should say hello from the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114815	Thank you. There are brief comments, first from Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114820	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask you about the part about the annual practice survey. We think this is a good idea and support it, and that is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we could perhaps extend the annual practice survey to show also the extent and nature of errors that may exist in relation to citizens and the extent and nature of what mistakes are made by the municipality. We know it from several numbers, for example. was there in 2017 bugs in 20 per cent. the sanctions that were given and beyond. So will the rapporteur support us spreading this study of practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114907	The Enhedslisten can bring that, and then we will have to look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114911	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114914	But are Conservatives immediately positive about that? Because we know that sanctions can have really, really great consequences, and some fine words are being said that they must not affect vulnerable citizens and must not be inappropriate, and when they do, I assume that the rapporteur agrees that this is quite serious. So will the rapporteur be in favour of extending it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128114939	Those sanctions are not targeted at vulnerable citizens. They are targeted at those who cheat the system, and that is what we want to put an end to. Every year the municipalities show that they can bring back millions of people by going after those who cheat the cash aid system, and we think that is excellent. However, there have also been some examples of mistakes made by the municipalities, and we must look at this during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115008	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115012	New citizens want to reduce the public sector. We believe that it is too expensive and that it is too bureaucratic. Conservatives, at least in the past, have had that view. Here there are a lot of sanctions we put on, and we know that foreigners account for a large part of the social fraud that is being committed in relation to the proportion of the population they are. Could Conservative support the need for foreigners who come here to support themselves? At least we wouldn't be able to bring that group with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115046	Yesterday we had a proposal in the field of employment where we saved 41.7 million. kr. in simplifying the rules in relation to medical certificates. So we are still in favour of simplifying and, in relation to the sanctions that are here, you actually go in and bring in a lot of money by preventing people from cheating the system. As far as foreigners are concerned, our position is that you come here as an immigrant and have to work, and you have to support yourself. But if you come here as a fugitive, we are bound by some conventions that say that you are one of them. must receive an integration allowance in accordance with Article 23 of the Refugee Convention. We're bound by that. Then you can discuss the amount and how high and how low. During the previous period, we went down from what is equivalent to social assistance to a start-up aid which is less than half, and we think that is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115146	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115148	Now it is not possible to simply come to the country by immigration and get support, and that is not what we are discussing here. It is true that there are some who come here, but there are also people who are here on a permanent residence permit and who are not Danish citizens, and that is where we ask: will Conservatives support a proposal that is about foreigners who are in Denmark, who are not Danish citizens, having to support themselves so that transfer income is given to Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115218	All foreigners must support themselves, that is clear. But if you have Danish citizenship, you have a permanent residence permit, and if you are out for a period of unemployment benefit etc., it is fine that it is for a period of time. But the fact that we have some people who year after year are on transfer income is something we are opposed to. For example, there are women from certain countries where over three quarters are on some form of transfer income, and we want to do something about that, because we do not think that is good, especially when women are cultural bearers. It can also affect their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115254	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115303	Thank you, President. This bill has different parts, but what concerns us is the penalty part and the coercion part, and we have become very interested in the consultation answers. I've just been allowed to read a few. For example: says the main organisation of the trade union movement that a tightening of the sanctions rules is therefore to increase the penalties for people who may already be socially at risk and where a reduction in the benefit or termination of it may have serious consequences for them and their families. The result of the bill can increase inequality and poverty. Danish Handicap organisations state that it is particularly concerned that the new sanction rules will affect citizens with mental and cognitive disabilities. The Council of Social Affairs Ministers says that many of the proposed changes therefore appear inappropriate and potentially harmful to the socially vulnerable and may pose a risk of further marginalisation. And then what I am asking is: how could the talk of right and duty have come to the point where the sanction system is potentially harmful to the socially vulnerable and could pose the risk of further marginalisation? Why do we continue to regard all Danes as those who do not want to work? The problem is that people think that unemployment is the fault of the unemployed, that unemployment is the fault of the unemployed, that the unemployed will assert their rights without doing their duty. But unemployment is not the fault of the unemployed. Unemployment is part of the market mechanism and will always be in our society as it stands today. So it's not the unemployed's fault. Experiments in Denmark and abroad, looking at whether people would like to work without being forced to do so, are extremely interesting. In Finland there have just been experiments where 2 000 people were exempted from sanctions and coercion and control, and there was a control group of 2 000. The 2,000 people who were not forced found as much work as those who were forced. In Denmark we have had an experiment in Kalundborg, where the 100 most vulnerable citizens were left to decide whether they would come to meetings, whether they would accept offers. They were set free. The 100 most vulnerable citizens took their lives in their own hands and went to the municipality themselves, and two thirds of them were in activation against one third at national level. These are extremely interesting results. So this may actually indicate that these sanctions are not necessary at all. Why is there no attention to this in Denmark? Why are we so sure people are gonna cheat that we're not even gonna try? During the last parliamentary term, I tried to say to the bourgeois Minister for Employment: can we not make an attempt to at least show that we are wrong? Can we not try it and see if it also turns out in Denmark that when people are allowed to decide for themselves, they are actually looking for the opportunities that are in life? Unfortunately, this did not succeed, but I hope that during this period we will be allowed to experiment with cash aid without counterclaims in Denmark. I don't know if the government has the nerve to do that. Because imagine if we're right! Imagine if it shows that we can save a lot of the money we spend on control and coercion in the system! If the government and the bourgeois parties are so sure that we are wrong that people want to work, if they set them free, set the system free and set the case workers free, then we could be allowed to prove that we are wrong. So we hope that along the way may be possible in Denmark at least to experiment with this. In the alternative, we are voting against this proposal. We are in favour of cash benefits without counterclaims. We are sure that it will get more people into work when people are exempt from the system. In Finland, too, the 2 000 people who were no longer under compulsion got much better, and we are sure that people will contribute to the community in the way they can now, if they are allowed and given back their authority and are allowed to decide for themselves over their lives. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115702	First of all, a brief comment on Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115706	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the fact that the tightening up of the sanctions will also include the provision of services. What consequence does the rapporteur think it will have if, apart from being unemployed, you have problems and, in addition, you have to be hit harder if there is something that does not show up?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115731	The fact that you sanction activity readiness means chasing people around to find a job. After all, they are ready for activity precisely because they cannot take a job; so it becomes even more grotesque and absurd. And yesterday we had a consultation with the Minister for Employment, which was about some of these activities actually, even though they are dying, even though they are deadly, and even if they are terminal patients, they are in activities and activations. They are in a situation where their help has been cut down to hunt for jobs while they are dying. So I think this concept of right and duty has now been abused so far that also dying people are being chased around to get into jobs and including some activity preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115811	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115815	Thank you. I assume that the rapporteur then agrees that some of the declarations of intent that may be contained in a legislative text do not always correspond to what we see in reality. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur will help to see if we can extend the annual practical study to examine the issues raised by the rapporteur in his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115836	We can be there as long as it's not about repairing this system; as long as it's not about making some small improvements, which really stamp the system, where you say: Now we make it a little easier, and then you can eat it. We want it gone. We want rid of the coercion and control and administration of the employment system. We are sure that if we give people back the authority and give them the individual help, more will come into work. After all, we spend an enormous amount of money controlling and managing people. If we spent that money helping people individually get on their feet and get to work instead of using them to force people around the system, then we are sure that more people would get into work. So if Enhedslisten agrees that we just need to get this system out of here, we're in on it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115912	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128115913	Thank you for that, President. Now I have been listening to the rapporteur's speech, and I sense that the only thing that goes back to the rapporteur's speech is sanctions on job search, in other words whether you are looking for a job or not looking for a job. After all, this proposal deals with a great many other sanctions. Because if it was only sanctions for looking for a job, the rules are such that you have to look for the jobs that are relevant to someone who fits you. Plus that in the new legislation we here per. On 1 January, the job centres were set up to help match the unemployed to the unemployed. But is it not true that if you are now looking as a recipient for the jobs that are needed, the jobs that become relevant to you, then you are not being sanctioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120005	I think it's hard to see through across the system. And we felt this way, even when we were voting on the patch law, that small improvements aren't enough for us to be able to stamp this system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120021	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120023	Thank you. I do not think that the rapporteur really answers what I asked. For the rapporteur's speech, sanctions were imposed if you did not get a job. That's all I heard in the first place, and that's why you had to give them the day off, 'cause then they were looking for a job anyway. If that was the only problem we had with this legislation, i.e. whether they are looking for a job or not looking for a job, there are also legal excuses for why you are not looking for a job, then it was a little easier to take care of. But the sanction rule applies to many others. Isn't that correct, sir? Torsten Gejl, that if you are looking for the jobs that are possible to apply, you are not being sanctioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120106	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120106-2	I am glad that the rapporteur mentions this, because it is not just about jobs. Well, we think that if people are released and if they get the authority themselves and get the chance to get the support they need, they will seek all the opportunities of life. They will seek to be healthy, they will seek education, they will seek jobs, they will seek to move forward. However, it is just as if sanctions in themselves cause people to have such a fight against the system, which takes up much of their time, while in reality they should move forward in their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120131	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120137	With that zeal, sir. Torsten Gejl shows today, you want to ask him questions in order to understand what he means. Is it not true that if so, as Mr. Torsten Gejl says that everyone will seek everything and that everyone will do everything they can at all, so they don't have to be afraid of this, because then none of them will be sanctioned. That was one question. The second question is: if you want to get rid of the whole part of the penalty so that there are no sanctions, is the rapporteur not worried about those who cheat? Does the rapporteur not think that somebody is cheating in this system? And if there is, shall we just put up with it, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120214	There are so few cheats. Even lazy Robert, I've actually had a long talk with him. He didn't cheat either. He is a very active jobseeker, and he has put up for three municipal elections, so even those symbols we have been given that people cheat are not really true. There are so many who cheat that I never think we're gonna need them. So says Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that I may not care, and then I can vote in favour of these sanctions. No, because we spend an infinite amount of money on them. We simply spend so much money on coercion, control and administration and on pushing people around the system and cutting down on their help. The money suggests that the experiment in Finland is not necessary at all. Well, we can use them to help the unemployed with a much more individual effort. It's expensive, but we actually have the money over from the forced system that we can spend on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120305	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120306	So that means that, according to the alternative, the sanctions that are being imposed around the municipalities now and what is being found out about social fraud and everything that is happening out there have nothing on them. It's just a bluff.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120320	No, we will not accept social fraud under any circumstances; I would like to make that clear. But we do not believe that a sanctioned system is the most effective in today's Denmark. We simply believe that more people will get to work if we make the offers that the municipalities make to the unemployed so good that people accept them without being forced to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120343	Thank you. Then there's no more comments, and then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120353	This summer, we saw how social benefits were played at Copenhagen Airport. We have seen examples of moving addresses in order to get more in housing support. The examples are queuing. The common denominator for them is that the social fraud taking place in Denmark is more committed by foreigners compared to the proportion of the population they represent. That is simply unacceptable. Now we have a 190-page mopboy with sanctions and everything else, increased administration, increased bureaucracy and increased costs for law-abiding Danish taxpayers. This is not the right way to go. On the other hand, problems should be solved from the bottom up, and that is what we are doing, for example. by saying that foreigners who are in Denmark must of course support themselves, that people who come to the country must of course support themselves, and that public services are only for Danish citizens. Then we will have made a great deal of progress and then we will be able to start addressing the social problems that are also among Danish citizens. They will be much easier to solve and we will be able to set up a system that does not pull ordinary citizens around in a system that is most beneficial to the people employed in the system of the municipality. That is why we in the New Citizen are incredibly critical of increased sanctions when, at the same time, we do not tackle the fundamental problems that we have in society with social fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120605	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120618	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the treatment that the draft law has received today. The government and the parties to the agreement are concerned that our welfare society is based on a principle of right and duty. It is a principle that means that when you are unemployed and receive a public service, you have to be available and do what you can to find a job. Fortunately, it is the vast majority of citizens who are actively helping and doing their best to gain a foothold in the labour market, but if we are to maintain support for the welfare society and a strong economic safety net for those who need help, we must also ensure that the beneficiaries meet the demands made and that it has clear and tangible consequences if they do not. Local authorities must therefore have the opportunity to provide sanctions in a simpler way to citizens who are not available when they have a duty to do so. At the same time, citizens need to know in advance why and how they are sanctioned if they fail to make an offer or do not seek a job. I don't want this to come as a surprise. We will ensure this by means of the bill, among other things. to introduce four flat rates of penalties and a simplified guide to citizens. Furthermore, the draft law reflects a broad consensus that special consideration should be given to vulnerable citizens, because sanctions do not necessarily bring people at risk closer to the labour market, as has also been debated here today. Therefore, the municipalities must assess on a case-by-case basis whether a sanction will promote the availability of the vulnerable citizen, and that assessment must include, inter alia: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent work. The draft law creates a clear framework for the consultation of the enlarged party so that contact with the citizen can go through e.g. a mentor or an offer point. It is therefore an important balance in the legislative proposal that citizens should know the consequences if they are not available and those who can and have the skills must be sanctioned if they do not fulfil their obligations, but we must take care of those citizens who, for a period of time, are experiencing difficulties. Finally, I would like to sign for the broad political support that has led to today's legislative procedure. I look forward to the further discussion and, of course, make myself available to the next committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120829	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120832	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that if legislation were introduced to make foreigners support themselves in Denmark, it would mean that we would have a reduction in social cheating and fraud in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120846	First of all, I think it is important to say that the introduction of such legislation at least if people who are legally resident in Denmark are deprived of their basic income if they do not have the opportunity to get a job, would be contrary to the constitution. That is why we consider that such legislation cannot be introduced. But Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has at least one point in the second part of the question: unfortunately, there is an over-representation of non-western citizens in particular among some of those who do not meet some of the obligations we have as part of our employment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120925	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120928	I take this as a confirmation that if we did not have foreigners who received public services and could therefore cheat on them, we would have reduced the extent of social fraud in Denmark. In addition, it is true that the Constitution lays down some provisions, but the Constitution does not make any provision that says that we should provide people with public services, but that we ensure that they can exist in Denmark. It's two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128120951	There may well be several interpretations of it. In the Social Democratic Party, we are basically opposed to the introduction of food vouchers in Denmark, for example. It's not the kind of society we want to have. That is not what we think should be the hallmark of a welfare society. That is also one of the reasons why I believe that we will find ourselves in disagreement with other parties which refer to themselves as being part of the centre-left or, for that matter, further out on the left. That is also why we are in favour of strict foreign policy. We want a welfare society that takes care of the weakest who take care of people who are unemployed. But in order for it to be compatible, one also has to have a fair balance, compared to how many people come to Denmark, how quickly they come to Denmark, and how much society can integrate them. That is, of course, the balance we stand for in these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121041	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121045	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. First of all, I have a question which is probably due to the fact that I am new and that there may be something I have misunderstood. But is there anything in this law or did I misunderstand the fact that one's spouse is also sanctioned by one's actions? Can the Minister help there? Otherwise, I can put a written question afterwards. My second question is this: let us assume that the sanction is done entirely on the basis of the law. There is no legal reason for complaining. Does the Minister nevertheless believe that if it is within the legal framework that it would make good sense that active cash aid recipients should also be a target group for tightening the sanctions on availability?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121135	In relation to the first part of Mrs Victoria Velasquez's question, I think that it is better that there should be an adequate written answer than what I can remember on a stand-by basis on the platform of the actual legislative text. In relation to the second and, in particular, the readiness for activity, I think that it is important to mention it again, and it has been mentioned several times in the debate, namely that the emphasis has been placed on taking special account of active cash aid recipients. Firstly, there is, of course, an extended obligation to provide guidance. It means that, in the decision on a prior sanction, the municipality must have advised the citizen separately about the risk of having an increased penalty on its disposal. Secondly, it is also important to mention that there must be written guidance on the consequences for the aid of repeated non-compliances which could lead to a sharpened on-the-spot sanction. Thirdly, therefore, it must also be assessed by the municipality whether the sanction is at all appropriate in relation to the citizen's ability to regain a foothold in the labour market and in life.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121246	Thank you. Here you go, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121249	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I also think that there are elements in relation to the issue of counselling, which are improvements, but I just think basically that there is a reason why you are in the category of activity preparation and that you are not just ordinary job seekers. That is because you have problems in addition to unemployment. I just don't understand why it is that you want the activity apparatus to risk losing 3 months of help, i.e. that some who have problems other than unemployment have to have even more problems, despite the fact that there is no evidence that it is actually helping. I just understand why the Minister believes that active cash aid recipients, that that same group should also be included in this strengthening.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121332	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121333	It has, of course, been a balance that I think has been made in the contract circle when the agreement was made, but I again think it is important to note that the whole idea is that special consideration should be given to the specific activity-specific cash aid recipients. And even if you are ready for activity, you have a duty to meet some of the public service requirements for support. I think it is important that the municipalities also live up to their share of what is, after all, the whole idea of the agreement, namely that we should give proper guidance and that special consideration should be given. And I believe and believe that will be part and parcel of the consequences of this legislation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121413	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121417	Thank you, President. I just want to know if I can bring the Minister up to a slightly more general level when we discuss sanctions. I think it has been very, very interesting with the attempt that was started in Kalundborg under the previous Social Democratic Government through STAR, where the 100 most vulnerable cash aid recipients were totally excluded from sanctions. It turned out that the people grabbed their own life and turned themselves to the municipality... there actually came more to the meetings than there had been before... and it actually turned out that it ended up being 60 percent. of the most vulnerable in Kalundborg were in activation versus 30%. at national level. What does the Minister think of such results? Could it be imagined that there might be someone around the system who would be best off being exempted from sanctions for a while?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121502	I thought, both at the time that experiment was going on and I read about it, that it was extremely interesting. I'm not going to write off that you can do experiments of this type with this in the future. I just think it is important to say in relation to this that it is therefore targeted citizens who are not fulfilling their obligations; it is targeted citizens who openly commit either social fraud or do not live up to what is the second part of what can be said, the social contract in our welfare society, namely that if you get a public service, you also have a duty to be available and to use the offers that you have been set in motion, and which, of course, should work to get you back into employment. There's a lot of discussion at the moment. It's too big a system, it's too expensive a system, and so on. In other words, we have seen this throughout history, and it still works away; active labour market policy works. We then just have a common obligation to ensure that this is done, and I think the legislation also takes into account the fact that vulnerable citizens who do not have very many opportunities do not get into trouble and that those who are affected, so to speak, by this, are people who quite openly break the agreements that have been made or commit social fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121626	The Minister says that this system, which we have had, is based on incentives based on right and duty, etc. But how do we know that? Well, we haven't done the opposite. So how can the Minister say that it works when we haven't tried anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121648	Well, we know it works, based on just taking the start-up 1990s as a fixed point where, before the introduction of active labour market policy, there were over 300,000 unemployed in Denmark. Then it began to be said that something very special was needed to take care of the individual who had been away from the labour market for a long time, and that is what has been going on. I am therefore in favour of the fact that there are economic conditions, and it is very important to bear in mind that even when there are good economic conditions, there can also, unfortunately, be high levels of unemployment, because there are many citizens who do not get the necessary help. Some citizens even do not get the necessary push and push and that we have a very special challenge on top of that, and I hope the rapporteur also recognises this, with a very large number of non-western citizens who have one, I think, worryingly low employment rates. That's what makes this type of action necessary, as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121747	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121800	The debate is open. Sir. Malte Larsen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121816	Thank you. It is, of course, a proposal to extend the temporary reduction in remuneration and pensions for ministers, so it will apply until 31 December 2020 instead of ending here with the turn of the year. Social democracy supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121836	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. He's gone, so we're moving on to Mr. Simpson's. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121900	Thank you for that, President. There are perhaps some other rapporteurs who have been surprised that things have happened so quickly in this Chamber, and that is what happens sometimes. This proposal is a proposal to reduce the basic salary of ministers for another year, because if you did not, it would mean that the salary of ministers would increase by 5%. At the turn of the year. Now we will have time in the Folketing for a general discussion of the politicians' remuneration and pension conditions, and here the position of the Danish People's Party is clear: Politicians should not be better placed than the rest of the population. That is also why the Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution stating that the working conditions of members of parliament should in any case correspond to the conditions to which the rest of the Danes are subject. The Danish People's Party can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128121950	Thank you. The next one is sir. Jens Rohde. No? Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122009	Thank you. Since our usual rapporteur in this area, Mr. Jacob Mark, cannot be present at the first reading here, I shall briefly explain the SF's position on the draft law. In the SF, we believe, as a starting point, that the country's ministers should receive a fair salary, as they have hard, hectic and time-consuming work. However, to give them a de facto increase in wages after New Year's, we are not in favour, as Mr. Jacob Mark has also spoken in the press. In addition, it makes good sense for us to postpone any adjustments to the salaries of ministers until we have had a broader discussion on the remuneration and pension conditions of politicians. The SF can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122050	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122103	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we have been critical of the many privileges that we politicians have, as in so many ways, I would say that it has fortunately become known for most people that they have been completely cut off from ordinary employees: favourable pension conditions, while we ask employees to be longer on the labour market, after-treatment without set-off, without the requirement of activation, without the need for training, while at the same time we whip the benefit recipients, i.e. unemployed employees, through the system. These are just some examples of how the conditions we have in here have escaped from the conditions that are out on the other side. That's why we in the Enhedslist think this bill is really sensible. Ministerial wages are another example of where we can both get money, but also an example of where the level of pay has been completely cut off from that of the average Danish employee. I shall not hide the fact that Enhedslisten had wanted a permanent solution here; I cannot understand why it is not done permanently. I am very pleased that we are going to discuss the overall package of political privileges and pay and pension conditions and all these things, but I do not think that this does not mean that we are already deciding that ministers can do too little less. But that being said, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122238	Thank you. Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122252	Thank you for that, President. Oops, I think that's a word that very well describes this bill, because suddenly the government is discovering that the remuneration reduction that ministers have been subject to since 2011 has now expired, and I just have to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122312	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122321	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of our rapporteur, Uffe Elbæk, I would like to say that we naturally support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122331	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122340	I shall be brief: new citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122343	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122351	We in the Liberal Alliance also support the proposal. We think that we should have a thorough discussion of wages and the other conditions in this Parliament and among ministers, with the aim of making them look more like the conditions one has outside Christiansborg. It is not about ministers or members of parliament today earning too much, but it is about the fact that it is unevenly distributed. There is a monthly salary which is not very high in relation to the function of a parliamentarian or minister, but on the other hand there is a pension scheme which is very lucrative. There we think that the overall package does not need to be larger or smaller, but it should look more like what we know from the surrounding society. I would like to say with regard to Mrs Lund's statement that it has run off in here in relation to the general public that it is just completely, completely wrong. The opposite has just happened. In the past there was a huge imbalance in relation to when you could retire in here, compared to when ordinary Danes could retire. You could even get a ministerial pension for your children if they were under 21 years of age. Fortunately, such things have been abolished. Today, when you are elected to the Folketing, you only receive a pension when you reach the retirement age, which means that it follows the general development of the retirement age. So if Mrs Rosa Lund had explained what it was like in the past, then it would be true that in here there were relationships that had run off in relation to the rest of the population. But today it is less accurate. Today, some reforms have actually been made, so we have got the most crazy things out, for example. the fact that there was a Minister's pension for the children of the ministers who left until the age of 21, and also the fact that there was a former Minister's pension from the moment they stopped. If you stopped as a minister while you were in the 30s, you could raise a ministerial pension all the way until you went to the grave, that is, from the mid-30s, if you stopped there as a minister. It has also been abolished, so fortunately it is going in the right direction, but we think it should go further in the right direction, not because the pay package should be smaller overall, but because the pension must be less and the general remuneration must be equal to the responsibility of a member of parliament and a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122649	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122652	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is quite right in saying that there has been a change in the things that we might call the most crazy in the ministerial pension rules. It's really nice, but it's not for me to see a resemblance between us in here having the same conditions as you have on the other side of the walls. And let me give you an example. When you stop as a minister and you are elected in the Folketing, you get both remuneration for sitting in here, but you also get ministerial endorsement. I think that is another example we could look at and say: is there not something here where it is a little crooked? And I also believe that when we whip benefit recipients through a system where they are to be activated there are very high demands for training but when you are going to be on a post-recruitment basis, i.e. when you do not get re-election to the Folketing, you get a bag of money almost without set-off.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122744	Well, we're very open to that kind of thing too. However, I would never think that it should be the case that if you stop as a minister and as a member of parliament at the same time, you should have a smaller after-treatment or less waiting money as a minister than if you stop as a minister and continue in the Folketing. Well, it must be the same. So to the point that Mrs Rosa Lund seems to be hurting at the fact that there are some Members of Parliament sitting here who have been ministers and who are therefore still getting some ministerial money, I think, I would say, that is how it will be. After all, we cannot make a difference between ministers who are completely stopping in politics and ministers who are continuing in parliament. But basically I agree that we must do something about all these schemes, pensions, if you are not elected, if you stop as a minister; they are too lucrative. On the other hand, we must also look at whether the salary corresponds to the responsibility you have. In the ministries, the Minister serves less than the Head of Department, although the Minister is formally the Head of Department.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122848	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122850	Thank you. That's the way it is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, that I pay party taxes, so there's a lot of people in here who make more money than I do. So this isn't about what I make or whether I think people have too much money. This is about how we manage the public money best. Are we doing the best by giving ministers a wait-and-see allowance while they are sitting in the Folketing? Or could that money be better spent? There I just belong to the category that thinks we could spend that money on something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122922	As I have said, we are very much in favour of a fundamental reform of this, not of a reform which leads to a reduction in the total remuneration package of ministers and members of parliament, but which makes it more similar to what you get in the surrounding society when you have correspondingly trusted positions with a great deal of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122946	Thank you. There's no more comments, and then it's sir. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128122954	Thank you. It is always an honour to be allowed to be last, and I regret my late entry in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I was simply not aware of the speed with which the agenda had progressed. It should not change what the Left's position is on the bill, and it is that, as we have supported several extensions of the temporary reduction in the remuneration of ministers, we also support the bill put forward by the tax minister here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123029	Thank you for that, and then it's the tax minister. There are no comments. The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123036	Thank you for that, President. May I not begin by thanking you for the overwhelmingly positive reception of the draft law, which, of course, contains an initiative to extend the period for the temporary reduction of the basic salary of ministers by one year. The reason for this is, of course, that, on 1 January 2011, a temporary reduction of 5% was introduced in the ministerial bill. as part of the recovery of the Danish economy. The reduction in the ministerial salary was subsequently extended, as is also known, in 2012 and 2015 respectively. The period of provisional reduction of the Ministerial Decree shall then expire here on 31 December 2019. That is why the government is proposing that the temporary reduction in the basic salary of ministers should be 5%. as I said, it will be extended until 31 December 2020. After all, the Government's wish is that wage restraint should continue to be exercised by the ministers. The draft law, and I think this is also important to emphasise, should also be seen in the light of the fact that, as we know, general discussions are currently being held among the parties of the Danish Parliament on the framework for the remuneration and pensions of politicians, and I think this is actually very positive. So thank you for your support, and we will then continue the temporary reduction of the ministerial bill until the end of 2020. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123208	Thank you. There is just one brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123212	I would just like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the Minister for standing up and pleading to keep his own salary and salary in order to keep it in order. It must be a strange situation in a wage negotiation in that way. So I'd like to acknowledge the Minister for doing it with his forehead upright.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123228	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123229	It's no wonder. It is a continuation of a situation that already exists and I think it is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123236	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123239	Thank you to the Minister for the review here. I would just like to ask the Minister if this matter had even come up here in the Folketing if it had not been because the media had had an interest in the matter, i.e. that the media had described what it would be like for ministers if nothing was done. I think it must be a little insecure for this debate at all that the proposal might not have come at all if it had not been because in particular the Extrablade had taken up the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123317	The draft law has been tabled and it is being continued, so I find it difficult to see what the problem is. We are doing nothing more than continuing the system that exists today. And that bill has been put forward by the government, and there's total support for it in here, so I guess it's as good as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123332	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123333	Yes, it may well be that the Minister means it, but there may also be some members of the Folketing who think that if it was not because the media had brought the matter to the attention of the media... if nothing had happened... then it was about the ministers having got this raise. So I would just like to ask the government: how can it be that this proposal is so sadly presented here at the last minute, before the budget law is completed, when perhaps one should have been at the forefront and really realized that it is a bad signal to send out that all kinds of things in Danish society must stand up for, but that ministers could have secured a wage increase if the matter had not become publicly known?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123419	I do not think there is any basis for these suspicions of the government's motivation for this. It is a legislative proposal which must be tabled before the end of the year if it is to enter into force and have effect. And it does. That's why I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123433	Thank you. There are no more comments, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123444	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123505	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here relates to the settlement reached by the then government with a broad majority in the Folketing on a new property valuation system. The purpose of the settlement was to ensure that property owners can obtain better and more accurate valuations and that confidence in public property assessments can be restored. We think it is very positive that a broad agreement could then be reached on first a new property assessment system and then on future housing taxation. For the agreement generally achieves predictability and security for the property owners in relation to their housing tax. After all, for a number of years there have been wrong property assessments, and the citizens who have paid too much in due cause now receive their money back. And it is typical outside the major cities that this will be the case. In this context, a new property valuation law was also introduced, which came into force last year, but in the context of the development of the new property valuation system, there has been a need for legislative adjustments so that the administration clearly reflects the legislation on the new property valuations. At the same time, the proposed changes must support that the new property assessment system becomes as simple as possible to manage, and that is what we, among others, are doing. Do with this bill. The bill also provides a political understanding from November 2019 between a broad majority in the Danish Parliament on so-called zero tax cases, so that property owners in the case complex who have paid too little in property value tax should only be reclaimed for the last 3 years, with the essential exception that there should be no post-collection in cases where owners can prove that they have drawn attention to the error. The reason for the case is that for a number of years the owners of a number of properties have not paid correct property value tax because the valuation of their properties has been wrongly set at zero, and we are correcting that now. In addition, it is proposed to simplify the tax rules by introducing a simultaneous tax base on property value tax and land tax. Today, the property valuations in a given year form the basis for property value tax in the same year and the land debt in the following year. At the same time, both property value tax and land tax will be paid on the basis of the property valuation for the previous year and that the property value tax will be much more likely to be charged on the basis of a property valuation known to the property owner and this will improve transparency and clarity for the property owner. So all in all, the draft law is a solid step on the road to the recovery of the tax area, which has been agreed by a broad majority in the Folketing, and it therefore goes without saying that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123815	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128123823	Thank you for the floor. As the previous rapporteur said, this is a follow-up to the conciliation on a new property value system that was concluded in 2016 between the government that sat then, i.e. the Left, and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, to ensure the framework for the development of a new property assessment system so that property owners could get better and more accurate assessments. After all, there had been a lot of criticism about the property valuations that were, and therefore it was necessary to find a solution to how we got some fair property valuations. And so it did, that we made this settlement, which we have subsequently translated into law. Now that we are approaching the time when it is actually going to work, you can see that there are some things that need to be addressed before the property assessment system is going to work, and that is, of course, the consequence of this bill. So it's a series of different technical changes to the Property Assessment Act that have to make us have an IT system that can work and make these property assessments run properly. It is extremely important for the Danes that they can get some true property assessments and that we can count on those who are coming. And that is why I think it is extremely important that we spend a great deal of energy on creating a good property assessment system. That is why we think it is really positive. In addition, the agreement on dealing with so-called zero-tax cases is also being implemented. For those who may not know, I can tell you that the zero-tax cases are a lot of cases that have been discovered where there are homeowners who have either not paid any land debt or have not paid property value tax for a number of years. The DA has examined this and then believes that people are obliged to pay back land 3 years, pay back property value tax 10 years, but pay back interest for 3 years. It's kind of inconsistent, and that's why we've been involved in making an agreement with the government that we go back three years with it all. It also makes sense that it is uniform rules, no matter what tax we are talking about, because it was a little inconsistent with the ten years. So we think that is a really positive solution. The reason you haven't discovered it in the past is that the tax administration hasn't been able to control the cases... you haven't been able to control the fact that people haven't paid any land tax or property tax. And there have actually been cases with people who have contacted the IRS and pointed out that they have not paid, and there is no response to that. And, of course, it is unsatisfactory that you then bring a large bill to them. Therefore, an exception has also been made that says that if you can prove that you have had hold of the tax administration and have made them aware that there is a problem, then you have acted in good faith, and then you should not be charged backwards, but only forwards. So we think it is a very good solution that is on the zero-tax cases here, and on that basis I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124119	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124124	Thank you. After all, this bill deals with a number of different adaptations to the Property Assessment Act; I believe that there are 15 actions in all in the draft law, in which, overall, it can be said that they aim to make it more true, to make the rules more transparent and property assessments more uniform. I guess it also says that it is simply necessary for this system to be managed, and it is all very difficult to oppose, so we can therefore support the vast majority of these amendments. I would therefore not like to go into detail with them here at first reading, but I would just like to make some cuts on some of the points that might be said to have a little question or a little meat on them. The first thing I want to mention is the part about complaints and legal proceedings, which, after all, the bill proposes that, if you complain and get the right, you will be able to get a lower assessment than the one that has been put in place for six years. In order to put it down, compared to what you are right, there must be a 20 per cent fluctuation in order for it to break through. What is then the problem here in the bill, i.e. what you are trying to solve, is what you call rings in the water. So how it might affect the neighbor or those who have comparable properties in the area; how does it work out in relation to them? One of the things I would like to clarify is what you do after the six years. Is it going to fall away, and is it going to have to complain again? There may well be things that have been complained about which, after six years, have not changed. I am in favour of proposing six years because there is this basic value curve; there you reset after six years, and then you look at new neighbouring sales that may have an impact on the assessment. However, the complaint that has been made may well be a move which affects the value downwards and which is also there after six years. Perhaps I do not think that we should take the fight every six years and complain over and over again in terms of legal certainty. Then there is another part, which may be a slightly more thoughtful example, but, as I said, it is over 20%. of the value to be moved by a complaint, so that it becomes something. That makes sense, but if the neighbor says it only has a 19 per cent effect, you don't correct the property assessment. It may also be a complaint coming from another place in the city, where it is only 19 per cent, and then you are actually up to 38 per cent, but both fall away because they are under 20 per cent. So there may actually be different complaints that play in at the same time, but all of which fall away if they are below the 20%, and there I find it difficult to see how to deal with it. In other words, it seems that it is not being dealt with in the draft law at least because there may well be some examples that you may later encounter where people get into a mess about this, but we can try to clarify that in the committee procedure. Then there is something about these zero-tax cases, which the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. In short, it is about 1,200 homeowners who for up to 10 years have not paid property value tax. It is quite scandalous, moreover, because the tax administration has actually known it. During the ten years when there was this problem, there have been citizens who have written in that they did not pay their taxes and yet nothing has happened. And then it ends up on the politicians' table, which, after ten years, is going to try to make it right. In the past it has been the case that you would normally have to pay for up to 3 years back, so that you could go back 3 years, and then there was what was supposed to know where you could go back up to 10 years. At first glance, this may be fair enough, as the attorney general has also concluded, because one should probably know that one pays property tax in Denmark. It is then proposed with this proposal that you only go back three years, or 0 years, if you can prove that you have actually brought it to the attention of the tax administration. I do not really think this is a good solution. Of course it is for the 1,200 homeowners, but I also think that all other homeowners and all other Danes should be taken into account, who are now under pressure, because there are so many problems with the tax administration and who now again see that there are some who do not have to pay what they have to pay. I think the solution should have been to make it look like the rest of the tax area, in other words, where, as a rule, you go back three years, but you can go back up to 10 years if there is deliberate or gross negligence, because that is the way it is in all other areas. The difference is, of course, whether it should be oughta know-how or whether it should be gross negligence, and I really do not think anyone has been seriously trying to speculate on this. The fact that people have sent in inquiries shows that it has obviously not been gross negligence or intent, so they would, of course, get away with three years. But then you're beyond making such a special rule where there are people who don't have to pay what they actually had to pay. I also think it is a bit strange when you look at the comments in the draft law, where you write: The government has stressed with the proposal that homeowners should pay the correct housing tax and that no distinction should be made between homeowners. Then comes the proposal afterwards, where you then make a difference between the homeowners, and I think that is actually a bit contradictory. In other words, it is a bit contradictory to use such a sentence in a legislative proposal which goes against what is actually found as a solution, because now the Danes have to see again that some homeowners are getting away cheaper than others. This could therefore have been avoided if the property value area had merely been made to look like the rest of the tax area, if it were said that it was as a starting point 3 years or up to 10 years if it were intentionally or with gross negligence. I don't think we should go in and make any more of this kind of special rules. So, in conclusion, we can support the vast majority of the measures, but are not in favour of this solution, which has been found in relation to the zero tax cases, so we do not support that part. And then we had a little clarification about complaints and legal proceedings, and we expect that to be quite clear when we come to the third reading, but there may be some things we need to examine in committee. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124650	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124658	Thank you very much. This bill is, of course, the preliminary culmination of a long process in which we have made one, we think, very good agreement on property valuations. It is also a bill that, in its coinage, is going to move some very, very large sums, not least from the Treasury and out to the many homeowners who have paid too much in property tax for a very long period of time. Approx. 800,000 homeowners may not like this year, but over the coming years they will receive a Christmas present from the Folketing in the form of a refund of housing tax. Now I myself live in one of the areas in the country that is the hardest hit, and I should like to greet my neighbours and all my friends and say from all of us that we are very pleased. In relation to some of the comments made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I would just like to add that, in the Radical Left at least, we are in favour of the zero tax agreement. It's part of the deal we're very supportive of. On the whole, we support this bill and, as I said, we are very much looking forward to its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124817	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124821	Thank you. With the bill, the government wants to adjust and clarify the property valuation law that, in agreement with a number of parties, but not the Socialist People's Party, entered into force in 2018. In addition, the draft law has to resolve so-called zero-tax cases so that the homeowners who have paid too little in property value tax can now be recovered for the last three years. With these subsequent amendments to the legislation, the SF can support the proposal as a starting point. We do, however, have a number of outstanding questions. A de minimis limit of 5% is proposed. the date on which an assessment has to be modified as a result of new information provided by the owner. The information provided by citizens will be stored from year to year if it falls below the de minimis threshold, so that, if new information is subsequently added by citizens, it will be included in the assessment of whether the total data under one influences the assessment by more than 5% of the de minimis threshold.? And will this change affect the valuation of an ordinary dwelling inhabited by the owner? The SF looks forward to receiving answers to these questions and taking part in further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124927	Thank you. Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128124934	Rune Lund, tax rapporteur for Enhedslisten, has no opportunity to attend the Chamber at this time, and so I read his speech. The bill is an expiry of the settlement on property valuations from 2016 and the latest agreement on zero tax cases. The Enhedslisten is not part of either of the two conciliation circles. This bill contains a number of elements relating to the property assessment, and there is a whole range of technical adaptations to the legislation in force in the bill, which should make life a little easier for the property assessment system that is being developed. This concerns, among other things: on the categorization and indexing of buildings, rules on use and exploitation and adjustments in relation to plan data and plan bases in specific cases. Overall, that makes sense and we can support it. We in Enhedslisten are also interested in making the property assessment system work. On the other hand, we are not enthusiastic about the solution to the zero-tax cases agreed by a conciliation group on which Enhedslisten is not present. According to the draft law, it is also proposed, as something new, that there should be no deduction or change of property value tax for the 2018 income year, or earlier, in cases where the owner can demonstrate, or sufficiently probable, that he has made representations by 31 December 2018 at the latest to the SKAT or to the tax administration, and has drawn attention to the error or non-assessment, or that property value tax has not yet been fully or partially employed. Here, in the Enhedslisten, we think that a fundamental principle is that one is responsible for checking one's tax records, and we believe that what has been achieved here is too lenient. When you can see for a long time from your annual statement that you pay nothing in property tax and you live in a house, the alarm bells should ring. This is equivalent to being put significantly lower in income tax than what you actually have to pay and not reacting to it. The setting of a deadline, 31 December 2018, seems to us to be very lenient if, for example, we are to be able to do so. 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 have not responded, although you have paid 0 DKK. in property value tax, but only as recently as just a year ago and can still be exempted from paying amounts due, we seem to smell a little like people can rightly speculate: If it goes, then it goes. Therefore, Enhedslisten cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128125211	There are no comments. We move on to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128125218	Thank you for the floor. Rasmus Jarlov, who is the rapporteur, is prevented, which is why you have to settle for me today. Real estate tax and land tax are two words that can make any homeowner look totally quitting. One amount goes to the state, the other to the municipality, and the only thing common to them is that most people often give up in advance. Why is it now that it is the tax administration that evaluates, and how do they assess your value of the home? The property assessment is indeed something that is talked about and shaken on the head. I think that there are many members of parliament who, like me, are asked periodically about precisely the valuation and tax of housing and property. That is why it is also the pleasure that the first new property valuations based on the 2016 settlement should finally be started by 2020. A settlement that aims to ensure better and more accurate assessments and also to create more confidence. Unfortunately, a number of adjustments have also been found in the development of the new system, and that is why we are here today. I have listened to the fact that it is both a question of the administration reflecting the legislation and that we need to examine the system so that it becomes as simple as possible to manage it, it is clear that it is also important. It is also about simplifying the tax rules by simultaneously taxing the property value tax and the land tax. I can only say yes to that. It is also about reducing residual tax and excess tax, and finally, as several rapporteurs have also noted, finding a solution to so-called zero tax cases where a bunch of homeowners have not been paid their taxes in a number of years. Whether it is of malicious will or not, we have seen examples that at least some have tried to get rid of their tax dollars without success. All in all, of course, the Conservative People's Party is in favour and thinks it sounds very good. It is a few things that we would like to have in place along the way, for example. In the hearing there are also Danish tax lawyers who, to put it mildly, are concerned that the assessments become unnecessarily complicated because of different methods of valuation for otherwise identical property reasons. We're talking about patch solutions. The Lawyers' Council is also out calling redress for citizens a horror scenario from a legal perspective. Of course, we must have listened to that criticism in the hearings and found a solution in the committee's work. It is, of course, crucial for the Conservative People's Party to have the opportunity to dive into it and to hear the Minister's response to some of the criticisms so that we can give final support. After all, it should not end with the homeowners continuing to be relentless and shaking their heads. In fact, we believe that we all owe a properly thought-out new law on property valuations, where there is a link between law and system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128125459	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128125513	Thank you. The property assessment system has been sailing around for a number of years, and I think that when we talk about a zero solution, we should perhaps have a historical review; this actually starts back in 2010 when the error happened. And that is also where the tax administration became aware of the error. Now I have not been in Parliament for many years, but as a citizen I simply cannot understand that one can be made aware of a problem in 2010, and then it is only here now, in 2019, that one is solving it and one is finding a general solution for that 9 year! In other words, if the tax administration was told back in 2010 that there had not been the necessary payments, why not put someone to make a manual assessment and then enter this manually? Why do you let it go? And because you've let it go, there's a bill of 100 million. kr. Now there are some parties that have reached a settlement, which amounts to 35 million. kr. of the vupti, 65 million. kr. is lost! It must give reason for self-examination. Why haven't there been any control systems that have caught this when you were aware of it? Then it's also a little bit about whether you basically believe that the changes and the IT system we're making now in the property assessment system are going to solve these problems. Do you trust that? I don't have that right now. I can hope that at some point I will get it, but in view of the history surrounding this, there is a lot to be done to restore that confidence, and there is also much to be done to restore that confidence to the citizens out there. And I don't think it's the right way to go, to make a settlement that puts the gun to the fore by these citizens and says: Accept this, and then you can't complain when the error lies in a system where there has been no action on it for nine years. That's why we're critical of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128125755	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128125802	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill. This follows from an agreement that we made back in 2016, which was intended to make our collection of taxes in the real estate sector more fair and fair. After all, we can discuss politically whether it is really right to levy housing taxes in the way we are doing today, whether it could be done differently and whether there should be any housing taxes at all. But as long as you have housing taxes, they should at least be charged fairly and properly and with the process under control. That is what the 2016 agreement was about. Before we get into the new assessment system here, for example, we could. notes that 800,000 homeowners, who now need money back, paid too much in property tax. We were also able to see that, having a certain tax burden on homeowners, it was very unfortunate that it was precisely people in one-family houses who had to pay a disproportionate proportion of the tax burden compared to people living in apartments. Why would they do that? What had they done? But that's how it was back then. The assessment of the apartments was far below level, while the valuation of houses was either realistic or above level. Now we are getting a more accurate assessment, and this means, for example, that where there was a prospect that people living in houses would pay more and more in property taxes, their payment will be more subdued, but in return people living in apartments, whether they are tenants or owners, take a larger and fairer share of the total tax burden. The bill here is going to make some adjustments that make all this work, and that's why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130005	Thank you. So I'm gonna ask if Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative, wants to wear as the last one? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130023	Thank you. It is set to vote in favour, and we do so, although the alternative was not included in the settlement on the property assessment system, but the parts implemented by the proposal are parts that are not considered to be directly against our values.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130050	No one has asked to speak too briefly on Mrs Susanne Zimmer, and then it is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130100	Thank you for that, President. May I not begin by thanking you for what one can safely call a predominantly positive reception of the bill here, which is, of course, about adapting the rules in the area of property valuation. I just want to thank you for receiving the bill, but also for the good dialogue we actually have on the handling of the property area in general. Several people have mentioned this, but the reality is that this bill has come into being after many years of work, and we are now ready next year to use the new property assessments and the new property valuation system when issuing assessments of the country's owner's homes begins. This marks the beginning of a special situation in which the property valuations have been suspended since 2013. The development of the new property assessment system has included: bid for the qualification of millions of property-specific data for the purposes of valuations, as well as the development of new models for valuation of property values and land values. It is absolutely essential that, with the development of a new property assessment system, we can issue better and more accurate assessments so that we can restore confidence in public property assessments. As I said, this bill is an important piece of legislation in order to achieve this objective and has also, I think, been quite favourably received during the consultation process. It is important to bear in mind that this is a very comprehensive and complex task here, in which we must ensure the restoration of de facto a whole area of governance. That is why this bill has also been a good deal of time in the course of the first discussions in the conciliation circle as far back as April this year. In October, parts of the new property valuation system were then tested on the property owners when an offer was sent to receive an indicative assessment out to approx. Eighty thousand owners. Approx. 24,000 owners then chose to receive an indicative assessment, and out of them there are approx. 12,000 owners who have responded to the questionnaire sent. The immediate feedback from the homeowners has been largely very positive, so it is very good. As I have said, most elements of the bill relate to the valuation of owner-occupied dwellings, and the first new ratings can be issued here from the second half of 2020. There has been ongoing work to ensure quality assurance of the assessment models, and the work has shown that there is a need to adjust the legislation adopted back in 2017 to implement the conciliation on a new property assessment system. For example: it has been found that particular land valuation of residential properties is challenged by lack of data. Similarly, work on the establishment of the refund scheme referred to above has shown that there is a need to adjust the legislation back from 2017, so that the legislation clearly reflects the administration of the scheme. There is, of course, a corresponding effort to ensure the quality of the valuation models for commercial properties, etc., for which assessments are to be issued in addition to the owner-occupied housing assessments. The work here is not quite so far advanced, but it is clear that here too there may be a need to adjust the legislation further once the work has been completed. Finally, the draft law, as has also been suggested, provides a solution for so-called zero-tax cases. I am pleased that a broad majority across the parties of the Folketing agree that the property owners who have paid too little in property value tax from the outset should be able to reclaim property value tax for the last three years, with the exception that there should be no post-clearance recovery in cases where the owner can prove that the error has actually been made known. I think this is a good and also quite fair solution that we have found, and it will then be implemented with the bill here. In addition, it is proposed that the rules on the resumption of property valuations should be adjusted in the future so as to make them more similar to those in the field of taxation. As I started by saying, this bill is an important piece in ensuring that, as we have all wanted, more accurate, transparent and uniform assessments can be sent out from the second half of 2020. At the same time, however, it is important to say that the new property valuations must be seen in the context of the new housing tax rules. These are really two sides of the same coin. Therefore, in cooperation with the conciliation circle, I would like to focus very strongly on ensuring that work on the implementation of the new housing tax rules is also well achieved. As far as taxation is concerned, the draft law also proposes so-called co-existence between the tax bases, which means that both property value tax and land tax must be paid on the basis of the property valuation of the previous year. This means that the property value tax could be levied to a much greater extent on the basis of a property valuation previously known to the property owner. That's an important point. From here, I would just like to thank you once again for the broad support for this very, very important legislative proposal and for the good process that has been going on across government shifts over several years and particularly intensively here in recent months. I hope we can continue with that. Restoring confidence explicitly in the entire property area is an important task we are undertaking here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130705	Thank you, Minister. Then there are two who have signed up for a brief remark, and the first is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130712	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Minister can explain why there has not been a response to this when the error was noticed back in 2010. So we're going to write 2019 now. This has meant that the common fund has missed out on a lot of millions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130734	There has indeed been a response to this. I think those who just looked up at me when you said that can confirm that if there's something this thing has spent time on in recent years, it's this area. I think it is important to bear in mind that what we are talking about here is a de facto breakdown of an entire management area. It's not something you just solve with a fingertips or in an afternoon. It has been a huge challenge and it takes time. That is what governments across the divide in the middle have spent months and years on, and that is why I am glad that we have now come here where we can make the final adjustments to the legal basis needed to get the housing area and here the property area properly in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130818	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130820	With all due respect, that's an explanation. I'm wondering why the IRS haven't been ready. They say they were aware of this in 2010. May I ask: haven't the ministers in office been made aware that there was a problem here, in 2010 or later, so that some ministers have been able to act on this before now? This settlement has just been made here in the autumn of 2019. That's 100 million. kr. lost. Now you make a settlement where you get the 35 million. kr. Back up. That is to say, it is 65 million. kr., it's gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130902	I'm not quite sure that I'm following the timeline that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen here presents. I think that if Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen would like to read a little more about the challenges facing the tax area, for example in the area of property, for example, you can read several Kingdom Audit Reports. You could also try to look at the very fine book, which among other things. Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen has written about why the tax administration has ended up, where the tax administration has ended up; it is called "Overmod and impotence." You can also look at it a little and see that this is something that has been going on for many years and that it is not because there has been no political attempt to tackle it. Fortunately, it now seems to be successful, and I hope that together we can move forward from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130945	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128130947	Thank you. That was actually something else I wanted to ask, but I just have to say that the answer to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is a piece of shit. In general, it is not about property assessments, where it is true that something is happening, but specifically about the zero-tax cases, where you have been sitting on your hands for ten years. And that is not an accusation against the current tax minister. You have only come to the politicians in 2019 and have said that here is a legal basis we cannot manage, but you have to come a long time before, and you don't have to explain that away with all sorts of sea explanations, because it is not the current tax minister we are shooting at; it is the underlying system that it is absolutely wrong that you are sitting for almost 10 years waiting for it and not responding to it. Well, you just have to admit that's not good enough. What I really wanted to ask is also about the zero-tax cases. It says in the bill that the government, with the proposal, has emphasized that the landowners have to pay the correct tax and there. But would the Minister not just confirm that it is exactly the opposite that is happening with this? This is precisely where there is discrimination, because a large proportion of these 1,200 homeowners do not have to pay the correct housing tax. They get some different rules than the rest of the Danish homeowners have had. So the fine creep, where you say there's got to be one's rules for everyone, is exactly the opposite of what you're doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131100-2	No, I think that this zero-tax issue is an indication that we have taken responsibility here too. I think that we have found a solution that is sustainable and balanced and that reflects the fact that we can always discuss who it is that is why we have ended up here who should have been aware of what we have got here and I think that what we have got here is a balanced solution. We can go back three years, plus interest, and if you can prove to the tax authorities that you have almost tried to knock on their door to be allowed to pay your tax, you will be withdrawn from the scheme. I think this is fair, and I think it is an expression of the fact that we are taking a good joint responsibility here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131144	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131145	But the discrimination is, of course, that there is no one else in the tax field who can say that, within the last ten years, they have made the tax administration aware that they had a wrong tax payment and then do not have to pay tax 10 years back. So there isn't this resemblance. And the problem is, overall, that we have a crisis of confidence right now in relation to the tax administration, with all the scandals that have been there. People have a social contract in that we all pay the tax we have to pay; then you can disagree with whether it is too high or too low, but everyone has to pay what they have to pay. So here's somebody who's gonna let go of 10 years. So, does the Minister not agree that this is a breach of the general social contract, which is already under pressure, and that this will then be a step in the wrong direction, because someone can avoid paying taxes for ten years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131226-2	I fully agree with Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær in that we need to restore confidence in our tax administration. I think that a very central part of it is that, for example, we get the entire residential and residential area back on track. Well, you've pulled the plug on a whole management area; it's been the subject of incredibly many discussions around. Mrs Juul said this herself, namely that it is something that is being discussed, and that is why we need this to be restored. And the zero-tax cases are also a clean-up task.I think it's important to remember that and that's why I'm glad we've gotten together here in the Danish Parliament and can get that part of the clean-up job done. One can safely say, when we look at our tax administration, that there will be more and we will spend more time on it, but I am glad that at least here we have come together in a broad agreement to solve this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131315	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. However, for the sake of good order, I must stress that the rule of not using you also applies to ministers. However, no one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131342	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131402	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are discussing here today concerns the adaptation of a number of State aid schemes designed to benefit the maritime sector, in particular the DIS scheme, which stands for the Danish International Ship Register, the reimbursement scheme for sandsuckers, the tonnage tax scheme and the rules for seafarers' allowances. It is the case that State aid can only be granted once it has been approved by the European Commission. So this adaptation is a bottom one that we're going to have before the turn of the year. More specifically, the draft law aims to strengthen the framework conditions for the maritime sector, but at the same time to balance the arrangements with the European Commission's state aid conditions. Because, as I said, it is the Commission that has to approve State aid, and in this respect they can impose a number of conditions. Of course, we in Denmark also have to comply with these conditions, even if, in these cases, unfortunately, this leads to changes that the Social Democratic Party did not immediately want, at least not all of them. Firstly, the Commission has approved the existing DIS scheme and the associated extension of special ships. However, this is subject to the condition that, from 1 January 2020, the scheme should also cover ships registered in other EU countries. As I said, this is not a change for which the Social Democratic Party has been in favour, but it is considered to be better to accommodate it than not to be part of the DIS scheme. That would weaken the maritime sector in Denmark, and we will not be involved in that. Secondly, the Commission has also approved the existing tonnage tax scheme and the extension of the special ship scheme, but it has also been subject to a number of changes which we did not initially want, for example. companies are limited in their ability to allocate certain income to the taxation of the rental of ships without crew and of activities carried on in close association with shipping activities. But like I said, this is a bottom line. Thirdly, the reimbursement scheme for sand-suckers has expired in January 2019 and this is, of course, quite problematic, but it is expected that the Commission will approve the scheme again as soon as possible and it has again been subject to certain changes. Again, I would say that none of the changes from the Commission is what the Social Democratic Party wants, but in any case the assessment has been that it would mean a huge weakening of the maritime sector in Denmark if we did not meet the conditions of the Commission. Fortunately, there is also good reason to welcome the draft law today, because the last part of the draft law is a re-submission of the proposal to extend the seafarer's allowance to research and marine exploration ships, and of course we support that so that research can have even better conditions. Let me say, last of all, that some consultation parties have indicated that the changes are not for the benefit of Danish seafarers. For example, Dansk Metal, Maskinmestrenes Forening and Danske Rederier have been on the track around the sailor's allowance. I very much hope that in the legislative work we can continue to listen to and be in dialogue with each other so that we can also, as far as possible, meet the consultation parties in these areas. All in all, we have to strengthen the blue maritime sector in Denmark. It is about jobs. Similarly, the shipping companies and Danske Maritime have also been on the track about the concept of limited speed. Here too, I hope that in the legislative work we can delve into it so that the concern that exists about unequal conditions of competition in relation to the Netherlands, for example, can be removed or that we can have it adjusted. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party does not, of course, surprisingly support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131819	There is one comment or one question to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131825	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would first like to ask a brief question. The rapporteur mentions that it is because of the state aid rules that we need to change the whole DIS regime. Can the rapporteur not confirm that it is actually in the draft law that it is because of freedom of movement that it is necessary to change the whole system so that the flag requirement is removed? Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not think it is a little strange that the European Union is interfering with this because, for example, with regard to the sandsucking system, it is a 10-year approval that has been granted, and now ten years have passed, and then you can come up with some other conditions. You may disagree with the conditions that come, but that is fair enough. The DIS scheme has therefore been approved undetermined in time. Then it is a little strange why the European Union, once we have obtained an undetermined authorisation, can come and say: 'Hey, now you actually have to change it.' Should we not, as a government, say: no, we should not, in fact? I understand that the Socialists are actually saying that they do not think these are good changes, but with their hand twisted on their backs you have to do so. But you can come as a Danish state and say: we actually have an undetermined approval. I guess you could try to follow that fight a little to the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128131929	We believe that there is a lot at stake here and that this is a bottom-up task. We have been asked by the European Commission to adapt the rules to Danish circumstances, so that state aid can only be granted once it has been approved by the European Commission. That is why we must also put forward the legislative proposal here and get it adopted so that we can get it done by 1 January. After that, negotiations between Denmark and the Commission on elements of the content are still pending, for example. on the seaman's allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132013	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132014	Well, there's something that doesn't quite fit, because if we get a permit that isn't a time limit on that... then the permission never expires... either... you can't just come and say, "Hey, now you have to change it so that it becomes legal." So I guess it's not with our hand wrung around our backs; then I guess there's something to come for; then I guess we can keep it the way we want it. Then it is true that if we want to expand with the new special ships, it may be that we do not get permission to do so, but we could not do so. But then we could keep the whole original scheme in the way it is today. So when we have an unlimited permit, I guess we can hold on to what we had.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132053	We basically have a disagreement here, the rapporteur's party and my party. We regard this as a bottom-up task, namely that we have to adapt the DIS scheme, for example, to the requirements of the European Commission for state aid, and that we have to put this in place because we will not in any way be gambling with the whole DIS scheme, because it also means a great deal to blue, maritime Denmark. It is about jobs, it is about working conditions for our sailors.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132127	No one else has asked to speak to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132140	Thank you. The draft law that we are now considering is basically intended to adapt the three well-known schemes known as the State, namely the DIS scheme, the refund scheme for sand-suckers and the tonnage tax scheme. These are three schemes which offer some really positive tax advantages, which are crucial to ensuring good framework conditions for Danish shipping. These are arrangements we have had for many years, which are a great delight for Denmark as a great maritime nation. The adjustments to the legislation must be implemented to ensure that the schemes continue to comply with the rules of Union law on maritime State aid. That is why the Socialist rapporteur is right to say that this is a bit of a bottom-up task. In addition, there is a re-submission of a draft law from the previous government which only makes it even better to extend the seaman's allowance to seafarers on board research and marine survey ships, which follows the extension of the arrangements that have been implemented for a long time in order to ensure the overall best possible framework conditions. It is quite positive, of course. The changes that are proposed without me having to go into details with them about who it is that can be registered in DIS, where to stay etc. and the other details of both the reimbursement scheme for sandsuckers and the tonnage tax scheme. There is a little discussion about, you might say, in the consultation answers. The question arises as to whether the draft law completely escapes with the objections raised by the Commission. I basically agree that we must ensure that these well-functioning and important arrangements can continue. And it is clear that when a criticism is raised by the European Commission about the way we have arranged it and that adjustments need to be made, otherwise they will not be able to continue, we are naturally prepared to look at it. However, I think that, on the basis of a number of consultation answers and also the recent inquiry that we have received in both the Tax Committee and the Business Committee from Danish maritime organisations, there is reason to say that this is not right at the moment. There is a concern that the draft law goes beyond what is necessary to meet the requirements of the Commission and beyond in a way that could cost competitiveness and weaken the conditions of the maritime industry. So I think that is a criticism that we need to take seriously. There is no doubt that we are going to ask the Minister a large number of questions during the committee's work to ascertain whether the draft law can be cut, so that we address some of the concerns raised in the hearings and subsequently. For the purpose must be to ensure that the DIS and tonnage tax scheme can continue, but we must not do so in a way that will tighten the rules more than is necessary in relation to the Commission's recommendation. In any case, it is very, very important for us in the Left that we improve the legislative proposal so that we can say that everything is as it should be. So we are doing this constructively, but we also expect the tax minister to be willing to make changes to the bill. That is certainly the approach we are taking and the expectation we have, that is, that the legislative proposal will look different from today when we vote on it at third reading. At any rate, it is crucial for whether we end up voting in one way or another when we come to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132545	The Danish People's Party has a comment or a question. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132550	Thank you. It is not really the concrete proposal, but the position of the Liberal Party which I would like to hear about in principle. It is true that this is, of course, a state aid scheme, but the reason why the European Union has said that the whole system must be changed and the deduction removed is actually the free movement of workers, because it is said that it is an obstacle to the free movement of workers that a Dane can have this net pay scheme, but on condition that it is on a Danish ship. Is it an obstacle to having the same system if you hire a Dutch or Cypriot ship? What is the principle of this is that we suddenly have something fundamental to be touched upon in tax law, because is it also a problem that Denmark may have a lower income tax or otherwise tax our citizens differently from other countries? Because we do, that is something we have said the nation states must decide for themselves. So we are in a position to tamper with something very fundamental, I think. I do not understand, if it can be an obstacle to the free movement of workers, that there are different tax rates on income in different countries. Here it is 0 because it is a net wage scheme, but there could also be a difference in whether it was 10 or 20 or 20 or 20 or 30. Does the Left not agree that it is a problem to mess with the fundamentals here and to harmonise EU countries' tax systems on employees? It is not concrete in the context of the legislative proposal, but it is a general problem that we have to take a position on, i.e. whether we accept it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132709	Thank you to the rapporteur and ask the rapporteur to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132710	Thank you. That's a big question. Basically, I am of the opinion that I also believe the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is that how and how hard we tax income in Denmark is a Danish matter and not an EU matter. It is quite essential that this should be the case. It can be said that it has been possible to have this system in the past, and this has been the case for many years, but the Commission and the European Court of Justice put a different interpretation into a judgment that I think it was back in 2014 in relation to what it might have to do with the free movement of workers. I believe that, as a nation in general, we must be quite satisfied that there is no possibility of discrimination between EU citizens. I think there are a great many Danes who work in other European countries who appreciate this very, very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132814	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132815	Thank you for that and thank you for the answer, in which the rapporteur of the Left says that we agree that taxation is a national matter. But do we also have a good case on the Danish side? Because if you don't change this old DIS scheme, there's no time limit on it, and at the same time we have a rule that I understand we agree on, which is that Denmark has to decide for itself the tax rules on income. Then why are we making this change? If this is not something in which the European Union must interfere and the system we have has been given without a time limit, then we can proceed as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132849-2	Without having to engage in a long legal discussion on EU rules and state aid rules, I think it is only necessary to make it clear that, for many years, we have been constantly adjusting to some of these schemes, extending them and getting more people to join us. This has happened many times, also with the Danish People's Party, and it is really positive, and only in order to comply with the state aid rules will this require different conditions to be respected. And it is clear that things are developing there, and it is not necessarily the same world we find ourselves in today, as we did back in 1988 when we started this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132928	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and then it is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128132935	Thank you. After all, this draft law is actually about some rather fundamental changes to the DIS scheme, in which the reason is that we have made a sensible extension with special ships and, as usual, when it is something that can trigger state aid, it must be approved by the EU system, and that is, of course, sensible practice. The challenge is simply that the European Union has looked at it widely and not just at the special ships and has said that the whole DIS scheme is potentially illegal in the eyes of the European Union. It is not, in fact, because of the fact that this is a state aid rule, but because it is contrary to the free movement of the European Union. It is, in fact, a little paradoxical just for the simple reason that one can come to that conclusion when we have actually obtained an unlimited approval of the present DIS regime. Then how can one come suddenly and say: No, now you don't have an approval anymore. This is equivalent to obtaining a binding authorisation from the tax administration, and then it is not so binding after all. It doesn't make any sense already there. But that means that this bill proposes to remove what is popularly called the flag requirement. Now you can get on this DIS scheme, that is, a net wage scheme, as an employee, without having to be on a ship registered in Denmark. Because that's just like what's been the contract in it. The shipbuilding industry is a very competitive industry, and therefore it has been decided to set up a system in which they can pay their employees without paying tax, in exchange for having a ship registered in Denmark which pays tonnage tax. This has meant that we have actually got a great deal of business in Denmark, which then also has employees on land, if you can put it that way, which pays income tax in Denmark. It has been a great business, but now you can choose to have employees who are on net pay and do not pay taxes in Denmark and where the ship may be registered in Cyprus, so there is also no tax in Denmark there, and the employees can then perhaps even get free space in kindergartens and other things. So I understand that this bill is a good idea for the shipping companies, and I can also see that it is a good idea for the employees, but for Denmark I just don't think this is a good way to do it. So we are not actually the big supporters of it. Then there is one thing in the proposal that is about if you choose to say that you want your ship to be flagged from, for example. Cyprus, then you have to meet the Danish requirements for reporting and liability and such things as there are for Danish employees, and that is, after all, positive. But there you write in the bill that you want to remove it, but you just can't make it in this bill. This will then be removed after New Year's, so in my opinion it only makes it even worse. I also think that there is something in principle that I also asked the rapporteur of the Left, because when the argument that we need to change the whole DIS system is the free movement of workers, then we suddenly pick up on whether it is not very natural that we have different tax rules around the various EU countries. After all, we have not given up tax sovereignty. I think it is quite reasonable that we ourselves should decide nationally that we have one income tax, the Germans can have a higher, the Swedes can have a lower, but now it is suddenly a problem for the free movement of workers that we have different tax rates. And what is the consequence if we say yes to this? Yes, then we have accepted that in the long term all tax rates should be the same throughout the European Union. I think this is going to be a slippery slope and just another argument for not saying yes to this solution, and instead we should take the fight with the European Union. Because there is both a matter of principle in relation to the free movement of workers and the tax rules, but then I think that when you have an unlimited authorisation for a system, you should not just accept it and say: yes, okay, we change our position, we agree, we go the other way instead. So we should fight with the European Union. I would also just like to emphasise that this is not, of course, about our disagreement with the DIS regime; we are in fact very much in favour of the DIS regime, but we are not in favour of the EU interfering in this matter and we are not in favour of the removal of the flag requirement. The DIS system is super good, it should not be misunderstood as a criticism of it; it is very good, but we are just really sorry about the change that is coming here. I would just like to say a few words about the refund of the sandsuckles, which is, after all, a system that has expired, and one might say that is more real. There you have a 10-year approval, and you have to look at that again. There may be other rules, and that's politics. You can relate to that. The changes are just negative, it is something else, but again: it is politics. So we have a number of questions on that. Because there's going to be a reduction in this rate of reimbursement, and there's some overimplementation, compared to Denmark getting some tighter rules on what's called activities at a limited rate. It can typically be if you are sailing in Ringkøbing Fjord or in Limfjorden, you cannot count on it in the reimbursement rate, which means that Danish ships will get a worse refund than you do if you, for example. was registered in the Netherlands and then still sailed in Ringkøbing Fjord or in Limfjorden. What does that have to do with consequences? Danish ships will be flagged out to e.g. The Netherlands, for then it is more profitable, employees in yards and other things do not get the orders to renovate Danish ships. So the loss is jobs. So there we have a number of questions. I would say that it makes sense to change the system, but there is no reason to overimplement the system, so that we lose Danish jobs and put our ships worse in competition than others. I now have eight seconds left, and I can say that the last part, which is a re-submission for an extended seaman's allowance to seafarers working on board research and marine exploration ships, we support, as we did before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128133443	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128133451	Thank you. This bill has also been in the pipeline for a long time and is a big and complex round, which is, of course, the implementation of an EU directive, a command from the European Union that we should harmonise our DIS regime. As several rapporteurs have said, it is about freedom of movement across the borders of the European Union, and, as you know, we in the Radical Left strongly advocate the harmonisation of these different rules. Sometimes it is just the way in which the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party also stressed in his very, very good review that we thereby also undermine some rules in Denmark. However, I took note of the fact that during the consultation period of the bill there are indeed many of the consultation answers that have been heard over in the Ministry of Taxation and where it has actually been addressed in the final drafting of the bill itself. I also noticed that Danish shipping companies are continuing to fight for some of these sub-sections of the bill, which are still unsolved, for example. the conditions for seamen on sand-suckers and other special craft. So that's why the last song hasn't been sung in this round. But as the bill is now, it is at least as we see it as far and as good as we can come now, and then we must continue to qualify the other knots, as the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party also pointed out in his opening speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128133632	Thank you to the Radical Left. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128133639	Thank you for the floor. With the bill, the government wants an extension of the DIS scheme, which SF voted against at the time. Employees on ships under the DIS scheme receive a net salary and therefore do not pay income tax to Danish society, and with this bill it is proposed to relax the requirement to register in DIS. This means that Danish seafarers working on ships registered in other EU or EEA Member States can also benefit from the scheme. In addition, it appears that the benefit of the tax exemption is not considered to be due in the long term to the seafarers concerned, but will directly be granted to foreign shipping companies. On the one hand, the draft law is caused by an EU requirement and, on the other hand, SF supports compliance with EU rules, but, on the other hand, the draft law entails tax gains for foreign shipping companies, which SF cannot endorse. SF would therefore like to examine further work the possibility of adjusting the scheme so that the value of the tax credit is reduced and the cost of the DIS scheme is not increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128133741	Thanks, we'll tell the SF. Then it's the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128133745	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, our rapporteur could not be here, which is why I have a speech that I would like to read out. Let me start by quoting:... that the extension of the net pay scheme from DIS to the whole EU/EEA will, in our view, mean the beginning of the end of the DIS register, and degrade the register to a comfort register whose sole purpose is to protect shipowners from the Danish model and to maintain the breach of the convention over 30 years by the ILO. • The quotation comes from the consultation response from CO-Søfart, an association of trade unions which organises a large number of Danish seafarers. We fully agree with CO-Seafaring in the description of the DIS register, only we believe that the description in this way fits DIS already today. We could almost be tempted to vote in favour of the bill if it really meant the beginning of the end of the DIS register. No, that's not gonna happen. Of course, we are not voting for a law, the DIS Act, which contains a section 10 paragraph. 2 and 3 which violate the ILO conventions 87 and 98 on the right to organise themselves and the right to collective bargaining and the conclusion of agreements, that is to say, fundamental labour rights, which we in Denmark regard as a matter of course. These are conventions which Denmark has signed up to. The DIS Act is in vertical conflict with these conventions and the way in which we have organized the Danish labour market. Therefore, the ILO has repeatedly, over the years of increasing sharpness, blamed Denmark for continuing with the breach of the convention, but nothing has happened. The DIS Act has been in existence since 1988 and continues to exist. 2 and 3 remain intact. The DIS scheme is, at the same time, a State aid scheme, together with the tonnage tax scheme. It is really a spoiled profession here. Now the scheme has been declared illegal by the European Commission. The DIS regime is contrary to the freedom of establishment, to the EU's non-discrimination rules and to the rules on the free movement of workers, in other words, the Danish Government needs to extend the DIS regime with its tax exemption for Danish seafarers to apply to all shipping registers in the EU/EEA countries, including the open FOC registers in Malta and Cyprus, which belong to the flag group of convenience. But what is left of the DIS law when the tax exemption no longer applies only to the Danish DIS register? Properly guessed: The shameful § 10 paragraph. 2 and 3 break with the conventions, break with the Danish model of the labour market, where one has the right to organise oneself and negotiate collective agreements through one's trade union. With this law, a shipping company with EU/EEA flag vessels wishing to board Danish seamen may choose to use the net wages of Danish seamen, but at the same time will avoid the compulsory social costs resulting from the DIS register, here we are talking about holiday allowances, occupational injury insurance, sickness insurance, contributions to the compensation scheme, contributions to the Employees' Guarantee Fund, the Barselfond, etc., all that makes some people call the DIS register a quality register. As you know, Danish legislation does not apply abroad, and it is quite grotesque. Therefore, a Danish shipowner who today has his ships under the Danish flag in the DIS register should not move his ships into an EU/EEA register, for example. The FMC of Malta or Cyprus. They would be able to save approx. 20% In addition to the tax exemption for seafarers, there is a risk of flagging out social costs. It is now far from the original intentions on which DIS was sold at the time. Danish shipping companies should be better placed in international competition so that Danish seafarers could maintain employment on board. As you know, the opposite has happened. There is not a Danish sailor left on deck in the DIS ships, and the number of navigators and machine masters is also decreasing. In the Enhedslisten we do not understand why the Social Democracy and the Folketing's other parties will continue to keep alive this shameful law, which violates fundamental labour rights. Now that the EU has declared the register illegal, we think we should take the opportunity to scrap the DIS. Only the ability of the shipowners to keep the Danish trade unions from boarding is now left. And then we know that there have been intense negotiations between the government and the consultation parties CO-Søfart, Dansk Metal, Maskinmestrenes Forening and Danske Rederier, and that the government has written into the comments to the bill, that the consultation parties' proposals to allow the tax exemption to follow the sailor and therefore to start a new dialogue with the European Commission on this matter will be welcomed. But it is birds on the roof and does not fundamentally change the fact that the DIS law is contrary to basic labour rights. Only on that day § 10 para. 2 and 3 have been removed from the DIS law, one can call the DIS register a quality register. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134301	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134311	Thank you for the floor. Rasmus Jarlov is prevented from being here, which is why you have to settle for me here too. I will, however, make it a little bit faster, I think that's how it is when you're a little more positive. Good framework conditions are really crucial for continued growth in Denmark, including the Blue Denmark, which is why I think it is a very good day. First of all, Amendment No 72 allows the expansion of DIS and tonnage tax to take effect, and this is a conservative matter and, of course, a great wish for everyone in the industry in Blue Denmark. And it is also time that we came to the end of the DIS scheme, because it has been discussed since 2014 and was passed by law in 2018. Enlargement had to go right past the European Union and be approved, and a number of changes and adjustments were required here. It's annoying, but that's how it is sometimes, and that's what we have to deal with so that the law can come into force at the turn of the year. It's pretty important. There are several factors in the consultation answers that show that we are not fully in the goal yet. However, I believe that all the positive parties also agree that it is now a question of ensuring that the DIS regime is still approved by the European Union. That will be due care. And then we will have to take the other excellent consultation proposals that have also been put forward. This bill is not just about DIS and tonnage tax; it is also about the approximation of the law with regard to the reimbursement scheme for stone fishing vessels, i.e., as several people have mentioned here, sandsuckers. There is no doubt that Danske Maritime's e-mail from yesterday to all of us, of course, also helps to emphasise that we need to look at some extra things. We would have had to, however, because Danske Rederier had exactly the same criticism in the hearing response. We have to make sure that we do not do anything in this law that will then be distorting competition. And as I understand it, the text of the law here goes further than the European Union demands. There's no reason for that. And I also understand that the tax minister will address the tax authorities of the other EU countries in order to examine how their respective sandsucking schemes are designed. Let us have an answer to that and let us have the text of the law corrected and Conservatives will also be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134518	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134525	I can make it even shorter! We see this proposal primarily as an adaptation and implementation of EU rules. There may be something we need to look at. But the fact that we are strengthening the seaman's allowance on board research and marine survey ships is something we see as very positive. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134548	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Then it's a good thing that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is sharp and fast on the platform. He's from New Citizens. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134556	Thank you. This is such a fun bill for us in New Citizens, which is critical of the European Union. On the one hand, we do not want the European Union to decide on the Danish labour market and on pay and tax. On the other hand, we are not very much in favour of state aid, as DIS is, of course, also. We recognise that this is the market in shipping. That is the market in which we live. We are also critical of many of the points made by DF's rapporteur, precisely about flagging out and about the things where we are going to put Danish ships and Danish shipping companies worse. Then it is also problematic that the tax relief that is going to happen will mainly go to foreign shipping companies. I think that it is fundamentally problematic that we should set up a law in which we gild and make it cheaper for foreign shipping companies to compete with Danish and run business. We are also critical of this. However, we look forward to the further examination of the committee before we finally take a position on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134702	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134709	Thank you. We are fundamentally in favour of the draft law. We understand the decision of the EU system that says that Denmark must not discriminate against the taxation of seafarers depending on whether they are employed in a Danish company or in a foreign company, in an EU company. It is a perfectly logical decision which is perfectly in line with the rules of the internal market. We are in favour of the internal market and we are in favour of the European Union setting a framework for countries not to discriminate against labour within the European Union. There are some things that need to be clarified here in the process, but our starting point is that we are in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134804	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. And then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128134812	Thank you for that, President. As has already been suggested, this proposal, which I would like to thank for the largely positive reception of, concerns four State aid schemes in the field of taxation in favour of the maritime sector. These are the DIS scheme, the tonnage tax scheme, the special refund scheme for sand-suckers and, fourthly, the rules on seafarer allowances. Overall, the proposal must ensure that the arrangements can be maintained and extended. This will strengthen the framework conditions for what we also popularly call Blue Denmark, especially for shipping companies with special shipping activities. It is the case that State aid can only be granted once it has been approved by the European Commission. Therefore, the Commission may also impose conditions for approving the schemes. In this context, we must therefore balance the need for aid to the industry with the requirements of the Commission for the design of the schemes. If we look first at the DIS scheme, the overall result is that shipping companies can pay tax-free net wages to seafarers working on ships registered in the Danish International Ship Register. The Commission has approved the existing DIS scheme and its extension to special ships, in particular: provided that, from 1 January 2020, the scheme shall also cover ships registered in other EU countries. These are not changes that the government has wanted. However, the reality is that without the changes we cannot maintain the DIS system. And I just have to stress that this would be a huge weakening of the entire maritime sector in Denmark. Therefore, the government also sees it as a bottom-up task to implement the proposed changes to the DIS scheme before the turn of the year. Since the Commission's approval of the DIS scheme is from before my time as tax minister, I naturally also expect a certain width behind this proposal and also, and I am glad to hear this, that former government parties can of course support the proposal and that together we can ensure that the DIS scheme can be maintained not least for the benefit of the great plus which both the maritime sector, Blue Denmark, Danish seafarers and Danish shipping companies are for Denmark. In this context, I would like to stress that I am, of course, fully aware that some of the consultation parties have indicated that the changes are of no benefit to Danish seafarers. We have listened to the criticisms that have also been made up here, and I have been in dialogue with the consultation parties and the Commission in order to reach a common understanding in this area. Once the bill is adopted, the government will ensure that the changes are continuously evaluated in close dialogue with the industry. At the same time, the government will examine the possibility of changing the DIS scheme in accordance with the wish of the seafarers' professional organisations to make it easier for Danish seafarers to hire ships registered in other EU countries. If we look at the so-called tonnage tax scheme, it means a light tax because shipowners are given the opportunity to calculate taxable income on the basis of the carrying capacity of the ships, that is to say tonnage, and not on the basis of actual income. As in the case of the DIS scheme, the Commission has also approved the existing tonnage tax scheme and the extension of the special ship scheme that we adopted in this Chamber almost four years ago. But here again the Commission has given its approval, provided that certain changes are made to the system, and again these are changes which the government did not want, but which are necessary if the system is to be maintained. First, the Commission has found that the extension of the tonnage tax scheme to special ships can only take effect as from 1 January 2017 and not as from the 2016 income year as otherwise provided for in the 2015 Amendment Act. That is why we are now proposing an amendment to the regulation on the date of effect. A similar proposal was put forward by the previous government in the spring, but, as you know, the proposal was withdrawn as a result of the announcement of the election. It is also in the light of demands from the Commission that restrictions on the right of shipowners to deduct certain income from taxation under this scheme be proposed. This applies to income arising from the rental of ships without crew and from activities carried on in close association with shipping activities. In addition to the adjustments proposed here for the sake of our EU legal obligations, the draft law also includes certain other adjustments to the tonnage tax scheme. The reason for these adjustments is that it has been found that in some cases the scheme is not working as intended. Then there is the so-called refund scheme. After all, it means that seafarers working on stone fishing vessels, including sandsuckers, are taxed in accordance with the general rules. The refund scheme for sand-suckers means that shipowners can subsequently be reimbursed 40%. of the seamen's gross salary. The approval of the current scheme expired in January 2019 but it is expected that the Commission will be in a position to take a decision on re-approval of the scheme as soon as possible. In dialogues with the Commission, it has also become clear that a new authorisation will be subject to certain changes, including a slight reduction in the reimbursement rate. From an overall point of view, it is therefore the Government's view that it would be most advantageous for Danish seamen and Danish sandsuckers and shipping companies if the scheme were to continue with the changes required by the Commission. Then there is the seaman's allowance, which is a larger equational deduction that replaces other typical employee deductions. The Government has chosen to resubmit the proposal for an extension of the seaman's allowance to seafarers on research and marine survey ships, and I am, of course, pleased that there is also support for this part of the proposal. In conclusion, I would just like to emphasise once again that this is a serious matter and that Denmark is among the world's leading maritime nations. Overall, maritime companies account for about a quarter of Denmark's total exports, creating activity and many jobs in many places in the country. The state aid arrangements we are debating in this Chamber today are absolutely crucial for the competitiveness of the maritime sector on the world market. Overall, therefore, I believe that the benefits of meeting the Commission's demands outweigh the disadvantages. There remains only to say thank you for a good debate. I hope, of course, that we will be able to resolve the outstanding issues and we will respond to all the questions that exist. However, I would just like to emphasise that this is important, it is serious, and it is a matter that we have done in the past and hopefully can continue to resolve in a broad cooperation. We owe this to the maritime sector and to the many thousands of jobs associated with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135558	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135600	Thank you. I would like to mention the part about the fact that the previous approval of the DIS scheme was unlimited in time, that is to say that there was no expiry date. This corresponds to when the tax administration gives a binding answer. Then it doesn't end, and then you know what you're dealing with. Why, then, is it that you can just come and say that now there are restrictions on the approval you have given? Why has the Ministry not taken up the fight and said: do you know what we have not given up sovereignty in the area of taxation, which is something fundamental in relation to freedom of movement, we must accept it and then an open-ended agreement? Well, why hasn't the fight been taken? Why do you just say, yes, sir, we're right, we're right, we're right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135645	I think it's a little bit of a misunderstanding. You might be able to elaborate a little on a question. I mean, this arrangement isn't timeless. That was the old arrangement. This is limited to ten years, and this is the Commission's new practice. But we can try to answer that in a question to the committee, because it is of course an important question to clarify. But this isn't timeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135711	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135713	I think the Minister misunderstood my question, and that is really enough. The sandsuckle part was a ten-year temporary permit, and there has been an attempt to obtain a new 10-year permit, and there are some outstanding issues where we hear that there are more of us who have some reservations. However, the second part, which is generally the DIS scheme, was thus unlimited in time. It wasn't a 10-year warrant. We would have had it forever in principle, and we could have these state aid rules, and now you come and say: No, you can't. How is it possible to get an agreement and authorisation without a time limit, that is to say, in principle a binding answer and that it is not open-ended anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135750-2	That is because changes need to be made. That is the challenge, and that is what the Commission must approve. That is why I am just trying to say that the problems and challenges faced by the previous government in this proposal have been taken over. We are trying together, hopefully by a broad majority in Parliament, to resolve them, and we are doing so on the basis of the wish that the worst thing that can happen to the maritime sector here is actually that this is not being implemented. It would be a big setback for the many thousands of jobs around Denmark when we look at how many people the Blue Denmark employs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135827	Thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. That is why I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135845	The debate is open, and first I give the floor to Mr Beazley. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128135906	Thank you, President. Our capital is under exciting development in general and the district of Nordhavn in particular, a newly built district with up to 40,000 residents and 40,000 new jobs. Of course, so many new residents and employees require a new infrastructure, and for this purpose the Citizen's Representation in the City of Copenhagen has decided to build the Nordhavnstunnel. The story behind this bill is that the construction of a Nordhavnstunnel is a municipal project that follows the principle agreement of 27 June 2014 between the State and the City of Copenhagen on the metro to Ny Ellebjerg via the South Harbour and the expansion of the North Harbour; an agreement which the Green Conciliation Committee here in the Danish Parliament has agreed to. It follows from the agreement that the Vejdirektoratet must assume the role of developer in the Nordhavnstunnel on the basis of a construction law. On 5 February 2015, a unanimous Parliament adopted an amendment to the Law on the Metro Company and the Development Company City & Port, which includes: authorised the Minister of Transport to carry out the preparation, study and design necessary to prepare and secure the construction of a Nordhavn tunnel. In addition, the Act authorised the Minister of Transport to prepare a vvm statement of the project, and the vvm study, which is the basis of this Construction Act, was carried out by the Vejdirektoratet and published in 2016. On 31 October 2019 a majority of the City of Copenhagen's Citizens' Representation formally approved the bill. The Nordhavnstunnelen, which becomes a municipal road and is primarily financed by the municipality, has thus been politically approved in Copenhagen. The bill authorises the Minister of Transport to build a tunnel from Nordhavnsvej to Kattegatvej in Nordhavn on behalf of the City of Copenhagen. In addition to the installation of the tunnel itself, the proposal provides for the establishment of a temporary replacement port in Færgehavn Nord during the construction period. The Nordhavnstunnel is established in practice by the Road Directorate, which subsequently transfers the tunnel to the City of Copenhagen. The tunnel itself is built as an approx. 1.4 km long road tunnel with two tramlines in each direction and is expected to open for traffic by the end of 2027. In addition, the tunnel is being prepared for a subsequent extension in Østre Ringvej in connection with the construction of Lynetteholmen. The latter is not part of the principle agreement of 2014, but is a derivative of the political agreement of 25 October 2018 on the construction of Lynetteholmen. A large majority of Parliament's parties noted, among other things, that feasibility studies were being carried out on the necessary infrastructure projects for the urban development of Lynetteholmen, including an eastern ring road. As is the established practice here in Denmark, it is proposed that the Danish Parliament, with the adoption of the bill, also grant environmental approval to this effect. The project will have to be carried out in such a way that the effects on the environment are kept within the framework of the assessments carried out on the impact of the project on the environment. The bill contains proposals to derogate from various laws. The background to this is e.g.: to clarify the relationship between the Construction Act and the rules of the Plan and environmental legislation which require authorisation, approval or exemption before making physical arrangements for the construction project. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that the execution of the project must, of course, comply with the Construction Act and the framework of the environmental studies of the project as set out in the vvm statement. As I mentioned in the introduction, the construction of the Nordhavn tunnel is a municipal project. Therefore, it is of course natural that the City of Copenhagen should bear the primary costs associated with the project. However, the cost of preparing for the continuation of the eastern ring road and a slight extension of the tunnel section from Færgehavnsvej to Kattegatvej is assumed to be financed by Lynetteholmen as it is part of the work on the establishment of the new island of Lynetteholmen. Finally, I can say that as part of the green circle of conciliation and then the concrete form of the project, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur on transport policy from the Radical Left. Andreas Steenberg, who unfortunately could not be in the Chamber today, and say that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140330	There was just one question on the agenda for the rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, and this is from Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140339	Thank you. Now we know that when we get more and better roads, there will probably also be more cars. So I'm thinking, how does this harmonize with our 70 percent CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140354	Thank you for the very pertinent question. After all, this is a project which must be completed in 2027, and when it is completed, the North Harbour has not developed, and then there are not so many cars and trucks that will drive out there at the beginning. However, when it is fully developed in the district, it is expected that there will be a large volume of traffic, and it is at a time when we will hopefully see that the technological opportunities offered by compared to cars and trucks will mean that many of the cars driving out there are some that are CO2 It may be electric cars, hydrogen cars and others running on renewable energy sources, and hopefully the same will also apply to heavy truck traffic. So hopefully that way, we're looking forward to this not being something to increase CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140443	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140444	This is a pleasantly optimistic view which I hope will be adopted. So I am thinking in relation to bicycles in the tunnel: what are the thoughts there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140456-2	It is the case that the City of Copenhagen itself has taken the lead in relation to what it is for some road users who must be able to travel out there, and so far the question of the role of bicycles has been kicked a little to the corner, as I read the bill and the material behind the bill. So we await the City of Copenhagen and see what they make of proposals. But there I think we should be optimistic, because I now think that the City of Copenhagen is a city which largely favours cyclists and ensures that Copenhageners can cycle safely around the city and not emit any CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140528	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140535	Thank you for that, President. This is a very good bill which paves the way for us to build a tunnel to Nordhavn. There is a great need for this. Nordhavn is in rapid development. We are talking about 40,000 homes that will be established out there in the coming years, and we are talking about 40,000 jobs, so there will be a lot of traffic out to Nordhavn, which is why we obviously need to ensure mobility so that we do not have any severe traffic problems and bottlenecks. So it's good and visionary. My Socialist colleague has already explained quite well the details of the draft law. I take note of the fact that a temporary port will be set up to alleviate the nuisance caused by construction work. I think that's really good. I think it is very positive that the legislative proposal also takes account of the fact that we have to move forward. For this is a forerunner of the further expansion of an eastern ring road at Copenhagen, that is to say the traffic system which can seriously clean up the centre of Copenhagen for a large part of the traffic, namely the traffic that just has to pass through Copenhagen. They shall not go over the town hall and the king's new square, but they shall go round about. So this is a very good starting point for the further construction of an eastern ring road also in the context of the project Lynetteholmen. Then it is clear that we are not doing something like this without some feeling annoyed, and of course we must always do what we can to minimize these genes, for example. about noise, and I note that there is a great deal of emphasis on minimising noise nuisances. We need to do this in the future much more focused than we have done so far with transport projects, and we can start with this project so appropriately, and that is also what I see being proposed. Then there's a whole host of positive consultation responses to this. We welcome the mobility that we are getting out of this, but there are also some who are a little sceptical and nervous. I note the response from the Sustainable Transport Council, which is a little nervous, because they say that this does not seem to be in line with our climate policy and that we need less CO2 There I must reassure with what is going to be the future, namely that what is in the mind of the cars will be perfectly green in the future. That is why I do not understand the debate that is continuing, i.e. that cars are black. No, the cars of the future are completely green. So this is a green road, because what's going to run on it is green. So I think that's such a funny argument, and at least I'm not nervous about it. Because we agree in the Folketing that we have to move to green transport at an appropriate pace in the coming years, and as has already been mentioned, this tunnel will be completed in 2027, and already at that time we have a lot of green vehicles in Denmark. So, all in all, it is a very good legislative proposal, and we can then, in committee, drill out whether or not there is anything else we need to focus on. I note that when the tunnel opens, there will be around 8,000 cars a day in it, but that is at first. Once we develop the eastern ring road, hopefully or expect a great many more cars going that way because they have to get around Copenhagen and not through the centre. So the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140903	Thank you. And there is a comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140911	Thank you. I hope that the rapporteur is right about the green cars; there is much to suggest that too. The problem is just a little that we know that there are 1.05 people in each car, and the fact that the car is green does not mean that it costs nothing in relation to both climate and resources to produce it. So does the rapporteur not see a problem in that we have all those cars on the road, whether they are powered by electricity or fossil?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128140945	But there is a broad consensus on pursuing a policy in which we make public transport as attractive and coherent as possible. We agree on that here, and we are on our way to it, but there is still some way to go. Among other things: We have some things in connection with the railway that take a little longer than we expected. In the metropolitan area, too, we have to invest in making public transport more coherent so that it becomes an attractive choice to make. However, there are a great many people, including in the metropolitan area, who need their cars for various reasons. It may be that you have to deliver children in two places before you go to work, and then you need your car. There must be room for this, and then we must welcome the fact that the cars of the future are completely green.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141023	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141025	I would also like to ask the rapporteur here about the recommendation on bicycles: if it is made, will there be a bicycle in the tunnel?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141039	We are very, very positive about bicycles, and that is why, in the blue traffic agreement of March, which is now not going to turn into anything, we have to negotiate a new one that has put a very large pool of cyclism. So yes to cycling, but I'm not quite sure whether it's a good idea to get cyclists into such a tunnel, which is relatively narrow and with the dimensions set up here. So I will also reply there, like my Socialist colleague: we must let the City of Copenhagen take the lead on that. But I'm not sure it's a good idea to get cyclists into the tunnel. Fortunately, they can go another way, and there will then be relatively fewer cars to bother them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141116	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141128	Thank you. At least I can continue where Mr. Knox... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen ended on the question of these bicycle paths. It is true that in August 2018, when the citizens' representation nodded to the final decision on the establishment of the Nordhavnstunnel, it was also decided not to establish a bicycle path link across the Svanemølle Bay and that was precisely in relation to the questions asked. I think it is a very good question to get into the discussion here today, because if there is something that is also interesting, it is, of course, that we get the part of local traffic that is possible on bicycles and that it can also take place in places where it does not at the same time have as a consequence that it is with life as an effort to get around its bicycle. Things have to be thought together, and they have to be thought in, and that is why the Danish People's Party will of course also want to take a look at it. But it's nothing to do with this legal procedure. Moreover, this is also something that the citizens' representation itself has to deal with in terms of construction. Having said that, however, I would like to say that it is always good that we can meet in relative happiness here in the Danish Parliament and establish and approve the implementation of construction laws which are of great importance to that infrastructure, because it will be easier to get around both the citizens and the companies in the Copenhagen area, but also for the many who come into the city qua their work or as tourists. We should also welcome the fact that it will be better for those who have a car to get around. All we need are some parking spaces. I also think that the City of Copenhagen should work on this rather than work against what has actually been done so far, except when it comes to getting money into it, because the municipality has been extremely creative on the parking charge side. But this is a completely different discussion. In relation to the bill here, it is true that with this law we can give the Minister the opportunity to promote and initiate the construction law for the development of the North Harbour. At the same time, we can also initiate the design and implementation of this replacement port, which is to be located at Færgehavn Nord, there is a construction period where you need it. I can look at the estimates that I have been given that it is expected that it will take about 3 years to prepare and offer the entire project, and then there will be 5 years for construction and construction companies. So this is, of course, an initiative which costs 800 million. kr., but also costs a lot in time and requires a lot of effort. But that doesn't change the fact that the Danish People's Party is extremely pleased that we are getting this thing started and that we have a task assigned to the Road Directorate. This is for the benefit of the metropolis, and it is for the benefit of all stakeholders. Against this background, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141423	We thank Hans Kristian Skibby and go further in the rapporteur's line. Since the Socialists have spoken on behalf of Radicals, I shall give the floor to the SF. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141437	Thank you. This is an ordinary construction law, and so far there's nothing wrong with that. In the SF we also think that the tunnel that we are about to build now makes very good sense. What I'm going to do a little bit is put forward a proposal for this construction law at this point, because this construction law lays down a line for a port tunnel, that is to say East Ringvej, and it makes sense to do so in this construction law. Otherwise it could be extremely expensive to change your mind at some point, and the preparatory work must of course be set in motion in connection with this tunnel. But the agreement in principle for Lynetteholmen actually agreed that a feasibility study would be carried out on an alternative route to East Ringvej, and we in the SF think this is extremely positive, because we would have liked to know if it could be done in a different way than in a port tunnel, which we are quite critical of from the outset. That is why we do not really understand why the construction law is being proposed now. We think it would have been useful to wait until the answer was given as to whether there was an alternative route to East Ringvej. In the principle agreement for Lynetteholmen, it has been said that it has to be concluded on the alternative route at the end of 2019, so if you could have pushed it to the other side of New Year, we would have thought it was most appropriate. That is why, unfortunately, I would also like to say that, as the proposal stands at the moment, we shall await the committee's examination of it, but on the basis of which we shall vote yellow to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141631	Thank you. There is one question from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141637	I would just like to draw the attention of the SF to the fact that yes, there is an examination of an alternative route to a port tunnel, which in that case will not be a port tunnel, but an Eastern Ringvej. It is from the airport and then runs along Amager Strand and into Refshale Island and Lynetteholmen, and it is to meet the Nordhavnstunnel in the same place as a port tunnel is to do. So it should not affect the SF's decision to vote for or against the proposal for a construction law for a Nordhavnstunnel, as it does not matter whether one or the other direction is chosen for an Eastern Ringvej in relation to the connection to the Nordhavnstunnel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141722	I still think it would have been useful for the sake of chronology to wait until we have obtained the results of the feasibility study which is currently under way and which should have been completed shortly before formally adopting a construction law. We have, of course, looked at what else is in the principle agreement for Lynetteholmen. It's not like that's the only thing you investigate. That's why I think it would have been good if you had all the pieces in place before you made a construction law like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141750	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141751	Well, I think it is quite fair to be against a Nordhavnstunnel if SF is against a Nordhavnstunnel, but the justification used here is therefore not applicable, because it makes no difference whether you choose one or the other line. The Nordhavn tunnel is equally relevant, whether you choose one or the other route for an Eastern Ringvej. I just think that SF should say it if SF is against a Nordhavnstunnel, instead of saying that it is because something then does not last.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141820	I do not understand why the rapporteur is questioning this, because the rapporteur knows very well that the SF has no problem with a Nordhavnstunnel. We think that is a good thing. What we have a problem with is that in this bill we draw up the lines very strongly, in relation to what is going to happen in the second phase, at the next part of the tunnel. We understand that you do that in a construction law like this. That makes sense, but that is why we also think it would have been appropriate to wait until we were quite sure what one of the lines should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141850	Thank you, we say to the rapporteur, and then it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128141858	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the rapporteur is not in a position to be here, is prevented, and that is why I shall read the rapporteur's speech. Nordhavn is a district which in the future grows with up to 40,000 residents and a corresponding number of jobs. Despite the fact that Enhedslisten of course would have liked the area to be served with public traffic and bicycles, this is probably only a pious hope. Of course, urban development of this size creates pressure on the existing infrastructure, which the current road link at the Sound Hull cannot bear. To this must be added the heavy traffic from the already existing container port and the traffic from the cruise port. From this point of view, Enhedslisten believes that the proposal for the construction of a Nordhavnstunnel makes sense a tunnel designed to ensure a good road link between the district of Nordhavn and the rest of Copenhagen and beyond. The proposal deals with a State construction project, and in this way the government's responsibility through the tender documentation is that working conditions are controlled when the works are carried out. The tracks from the Storstrøm Bridge are now frightening as far as the working environment is concerned. Therefore, Enhedslisten would like answers on how the supply is linked so as to ensure proper pay and working conditions in connection with the construction of the Nordhavnstunnelen, including, not least, how the Road Directorate will ensure that the work clauses are complied with, so that we do not see the same working conditions as we are now looking at the construction of the Storstrøm Bridge. The proposal estimates that 65,000 drivers are going to and from the area. In the view of Enhedslisten, this figure can and should be significantly reduced. It takes a different approach to dealing with tribulation than what previous governments have had in response, that is to say to focus solely on more roads. The Enhedslisten would have liked the proposal to have also taken into account the fact that much of the traffic in Copenhagen is carried out on foot and by bicycle. This aspect is completely missing from the proposal, and, like the Cyclist League points out in their consultation answer, Enhedslisten also lacks a parallel connection to the bike and walk. The unitary list is extremely critical of the part of the proposal which deals with the improvement of a port tunnel, also called East Ringvej. The Enhedslisten believes that a port tunnel does not eliminate the traffic problems in Copenhagen. The only thing that happens is that traffic moves around to other places in town. It comes, among other things. to burden the bridge neighbourhoods with more traffic. In the worst case scenario, a port tunnel could generate even more traffic. That way Enhedslisten literally thinks he's not quite without humor, Henning Hyllested doesn't mean we're going down, on the contrary. This is backed up by several traffic researchers. One goes even as far as calling the project an emergency solution and instead points to a solution in the form of road pricing to make up for the hardship in Copenhagen. The Enhedslisten agrees entirely with that. In the view of the Enhedslisten, the congestion problems that one wants to solve with a port tunnel are not solved with more road links, but rather with more and better public traffic and much greater investment in the bicycle infrastructure. The unitary list reserves a position on the draft law and awaits the committee's examination. We want an explanation of why a parallel cycle and walk path has not been chosen. On this basis, the Enhedslisten expects not to be able to support the proposal, but to vote yellow. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142233	There are a few comments to the rapporteur who is not Mr. Henning Hylllested. I hope it's not a fata morgana that sits down there. Now the rapporteur says that Mr. Henning Hyllested isn't without a sense of humor, so I hope he forgives me for mentioning this. But there's a comment, and that's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, who wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142255	Thank you. The reason I would like to ask the rapporteur something is, in fact, that I understood that the Enhedslisten approach is that the way to remove congestion was to remove the roads, and then there were no cars. It reminds me a little of the Rokokoposten, if it's the approach to how to look at the capital's metropolis problems. For one of the major problems you have, if you are finally going to discuss it, is that you can get into town with the cars, but you cannot park them. And there we know that if you look at the citizens' representation, the Enhedslisten, the rapporteur's own party, has helped to say no to Real Dania's projects with parking garages in the port, in the port basin, etc., even though it was fully funded and so on. It's like you don't want those cars in here, even though it's actually possible to do it in a memorable way. And there is where I do not really understand the political context in relation to this fundamental discussion. The rapporteur is also talking about this in relation to bicycle paths. It's a citizen's representation's business to discuss these things. It's not the Folketing that's supposed to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142413	Thank you for the question. Now it is also a political matter whether people die of particle pollution because there are too many cars, or whether our climate actually can't stand us having the CO2 I understand that it can be difficult to think: Well, what should we do if it isn't the roads we have to pay for? How do we do this when the whole way we think about traffic is so one-sidedly focused on cars? And that is where we see that some steps are being taken, and we are saying that we need to invest even more in public transport and actually give a boost to all those people who choose the bike every day or come on foot. But I am sure there will be a much better response from our transport rapporteur, so I think he will also come back with answers to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142459	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142500	There's a way you can do it. In other words, the rapporteur is right that we should not have particulate pollution. But so, the City of Copenhagen has opposed that the products which, for example, can be delivered in relation to reducing particulate pollution by making such surface treatment on bicycle paths and sidewalks and parking spaces, on the city roofs, etc., can actually reduce particulate pollution by 30%. And then we should also remember that when there are too few parking spaces, people do what is called a circle trip. You drive around and around waiting to find a place to park. By making sure there were some more parking spaces, we saved 30%. of the driving in Copenhagen, i.e. in relation to the circle tours. Is that not something that impresses the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142543	We have seen that even more parking spaces are made, and there will be even more cars. If we choose to spend the money we have on clearly focusing on cars, then it is clear that it is the mode of transport that will be spent. It is the same way that now it is outside the metropolitan area when you don't have the courage to bet on people using public transport and taking the bus if you can't expect it to leave. And that is the whole point: it is simply that we have to do it in such a way that there are some concrete, genuine alternatives to taking the car and sitting in the car queue. And that is precisely to invest in bicycle paths and in public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142618	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142620	First of all, I must say that the rapporteur says that our transport policy is one-sidedly focused on cars. In the latest investment plan for traffic in Denmark, the green transport agreement from 2009, two thirds of the 100 billion were spent. kr. allocated to the railway • two thirds. In the proposal made by the blue majority in the last parliamentary assembly, an investment plan in the period 2021-2030, it was almost half that was allocated to the railway. Every time maintenance of infrastructure to drive 1 km on the roads costs 1 DKK, it costs 10 DKK. to maintain the railway to transport a person 1 km. The myth, which Enhedslisten cultivates, that we spend fortunes on cars, and that we starve public traffic, etc., is as untrue as anything can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142722	I think the questioner has a little selective hearing. Because I actually said that in some places it is going in the right direction. But it's kind of funny that when we have to put an extra road somewhere, you can find the money, but when it's actually about renovating our train, so we don't have a lot of problems with signal failures and other parts, it's a little harder. And the same goes for delaying some of the investments that we had actually agreed to make in public transport. In relation to the calculations on kilometres and how far and how far, I am sure that our transport rapporteur will come back to that criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142756	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142757	Well, there's no limit to ignorance. I do not think it is an excuse for not being rapporteur for this. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur only repeats today the eternal plunder of the left. The left is living in such an echo chamber, where you just repeat lies to each other, and then you go to the platform at some point, and then you think it's true. It is not true that we are not investing in new trains. It is not true that we are not investing in a new signal programme. We're spending 20 billion. kr. on a new signal program. So why does Mrs Victoria Velasquez say that from the platform? Doesn't it give you any concern about the environment she's around, that she's fed with so many falsehoods?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142837	Again, I have not said that there will be no investment in public transport, and that is one of the reasons why we are here together, for example. The alternative and others have worked hard to make it possible, and we have in fact also made some broad agreements where there are more that are involved. What I am just saying is that if we look at it from a long perspective, we have been looking at it all too much at the fact that it has to be the cars instead of the public transport. We see several places in the outskirts that public transport is getting smaller and smaller. One cannot count on taking the bus, for example; there are bicycle paths that have been demanded for a long time in several places, and it has been on state roads, etc. etc. It's really, really hard to find the crowns. That is the criticism I am making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142916	Thank you. And there are no more brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128142932	Very well has been said about L 57 concerning the law on the construction of the North Harbour Tunnel, so I will try to brief my speech a little down for the sake of the advanced time. From the Conservative People's Party's side, we are in favour of this proposal, as it is part of the development that creates 40 000 new jobs in North Harbour and at least as many residents. We are happy to authorise the Minister to build a Nordhavnstunnel, and at the same time we support the establishment of the replacement port in Færgehavn Nord. In this context, it is important for us to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in the Nordhavn tunnel, and not least on Østre Ringvej. At the same time, it is important that the City of Copenhagen get these connections fixed in a timely manner during the construction phase.So we avoid bottlenecks and thus create minimal inconvenience for the Copenhageners, and in the same way we manage through traffic properly around Copenhagen. So, against this background and with the above-mentioned conditions, Conservatives back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143049	Thank you. And there are no brief comments, so we move on. Thanks to Conservatives' rapporteur and the next rapporteur is the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143059	Thank you. We cannot support the proposal here because we do not believe that any further investment should be made in infrastructure for motorism. The road tunnel makes it harder for Copenhagen to become a CO2 We don't need even more of the city's square kilometers for driving and parking • We need them on nature. The Cyclist League states in the hearing that figures from the City of Copenhagen show that it costs 5 DKK. and 28 cents for each new mile driven by car, whereas it has a socio-economic gain of 4 DKK. and 80 cents for every new mile created for cyclists. And it is therefore socio-economicly problematic to build a motorway tunnel, and then, if it is to be built absolutely, it is definitely socio-economicly irresponsible not to build the tunnel with its pedestrian and bicycle connections. The Sustainable Transport Council states that 2 billion and 871 million good kroner should not be wasted on a 1 km road tunnel. The road tunnel, which is mainly built for almost empty commuter cars with approx. 1,05 persons per year car, will strongly stimulate people to use car instead of bike and public transportation. In the vvm study, the Vejdirektoratet even concludes that the traffic gains will not be sufficient to offset the construction and operating costs of the tunnel. Drop the tunnel and build instead of the planned extra metro stations in Nordhavn. Ten organizations have recently come up with a proposal for a large new natural area of approx. 100 acres in Nyhavn. We fully support this project, and if it could go that way, it would reduce new construction and thus lower the need for new roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143302	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143306	I don't know what kind of world the alternative lives in. So, the rest of us look into a future not very far from here, where cars in Denmark drive around on power, which is charged at night with power from the windmills that spin around out there, and which supply the power to the cars at a time when others do not use the power. Hydrogen cars may also be one thing in the future. At any rate, it seems that there is a broad political majority on which we are committed and which wants to phase out cars which run on fossil fuels. I do not think there is any doubt that the cars of the future will be green. Is it simply because you do not like the freedom that people have out there when they can decide where they want to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143400	Thank you. I fully agree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in that the cars of the future will probably be electric cars. And they emit less, but they must continue to be built, and that requires raw materials. That is why we need to get more people over by bicycle and into public transport. Cycling traffic and pedestrian traffic also have the advantage that there are major health benefits in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143424	Yes, but everything we surround ourselves with requires raw materials. Why do the cars have to be taken out? I mean, should we also have rules on how many people can live in a house? You can only live in a house if you live 20 people? Or are you actually allowed to live in a house if you live for yourself? That is 20 times as many raw materials as it takes if you live there alone than if you live 20 in the house. Why this reluctance and this hatred towards people transporting themselves individually?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143500	I have absolutely no hatred, and I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is onto something right, because we need cars, but we also need many other things. We need to change our lifestyle. We need to reduce our consumption. We cannot continue to grow like this if we want to leave a world that we can be familiar with leaving behind for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143520	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143524	I really think it is fantastic that many of the times when we have these discussions in the Folketing with the politicians of the Alternative, they say that we cannot afford this growth we must stop growth. Nevertheless, the party continues to want to spend other people's money unbridledly. Well, I actually think it's hypocrisy. Now there is a case here where we are trying to remedy some of the consequences that people have been scared of cars for many years, for example in Copenhagen. All of a sudden, it's said that you're practically a criminal because you drive a car. After all, it is not the cars that are the problem; it is the fuel, it is the driving force of the cars that are the problem. Then we'll try in here in the Folketing to look 8 years ahead. In eight years, this Nordhavn tunnel might be finished. How many of the cars driving in Copenhagen in 8 years will drive on hydrogen? Already there are 50 cars driving on hydrogen in the harbour waiting to get a driving licence, i.e. taxis driving in Copenhagen. You actually have a net plus 2 So does the rapporteur not admit that in eight years' time there is actually a whole different situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143633	I really hope that we will have another situation in eight years' time, and I also hope that we can move around and have a good life without all of us driving cars. We simply need to get more cars out of the city, and then we need a better infrastructure in the city so that we can move around freely without straining our environment and our climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143652	Does the rapporteur not agree that if efforts were made to park your car in the Copenhagen area, it would be possible to get rid of the circle? People wouldn't drive around and around the blocks to find a parking lot. It is well known to most people that it is one of the greatest environmental challenges, i.e. that you cannot find a parking space. And that's because the politicians are so fox-red and say that we shouldn't have cars into the city, that's why we remove the parking lots. Now we have heard today from the Alternative that we must also remove the roads. I think that is hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143728	I do not admit at all that we need more parking spaces, because more parking spaces will get more cars into town. On the other hand, we need some other options so that people can move around freely.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143739	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we would like to thank the alternative rapporteur. And we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128143748	Thank you. I think it's appropriate to say that I love cars. I love the history of cars; I love freedom; I love the smell of gasoline and a good V8's. It can make me happy, it's like a good work of art. It's like a good song to hear a car start. That's why I think it's right to kill this myth that electric cars are CO2 Stop! How it has crept right into the Folketing, where one should be slightly enlightened, I simply do not understand. There is no CO2 Where it is produced, it costs a lot of CO2 Such a battery emits a lot of CO2 In addition, we are in the situation that when these batteries are to be driven and charged up, the energy you put into them is not CO2 Even now I know that we in Denmark are a little further ahead in the electrical field than they may be in other EU countries, but it is still not an electric car that is CO2 In addition, a regular car will be scrapped when it has run 185,000 km. The latest studies show that an electric car first is more CO 2 An average electric car and electric battery may last 160,000 km, then they need to be changed. So you have to add that when you talk about the electric cars being CO2 they're everything else. So we have to keep the cars, we should have more of them. They give freedom, and it is up to us politicians in here to build enough roads so that people can drive in their cars and so that people can transport their families wherever they want. It is fundamental that it is a right of liberty which one has as a citizen and which one must also have in the future in Danish society. This is a harbor tunnel. It creates more space for cars, and we can of course fully support this in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144013	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144013-2	Thank you. After the first piece of the speech, I almost thought we could agree, but it went on. The rapporteur put a great deal of emphasis on electric cars and the pollution of electric cars, and there are many opinions on this, and many studies have been carried out on it. I will admit that electric cars are the most CO2 of our electricity supply comes from green energy, so I think it will be a big task to get more green energy, get more wind turbines, more solar cells, etc. Does the rapporteur agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144108	I would go so far as to say that you cannot simply archive research and then say that it is not research because you do not like the result. Electric cars are currently not CO2 but I would like CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144132	Thank you. The questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144135	Now the rapporteur laid great emphasis on the fact that we should have a great many roads, and then I wonder where the people should be, and whether we as people should not have nature around us. Does it matter, and are the roads more important?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144153	If we now measure how many square meters of the Danish area, which is nature today, and how many square meters there are roads, then we can still build many square meters of roads before there is balance in it. But that is quite fundamental, because if you want to finance these things that politicians keep spending money on in here, it requires people to get to work, it requires business to be able to come forward and it requires us to be able to carry our goods. We are wasting billions already by queues, and then it is irresponsible not to build any more roads, because it costs growth and it costs so that politicians here have no money to spend.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144228	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144231	I would recommend to the rapporteur that he get on a train from time to time, for example. an IC3 train. You drive quite excellently on the trains, you sit comfortably, and it's really good to lie and drive on trains. I would like to say to some of the remarks made by the rapporteur that I understand that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen thinks you can build yourself out of tribulation. Is it really New Citizen's view that the tribulation, which indeed costs millions of kroner each year in lost working hours etc. etc., can one build oneself out of just building roads and reconstructing roads? Does New Citizens not see the possibility of supplementing traffic with, for example, the United Kingdom? a good, well-built and cheap public transport or a good bicycle infrastructure so people can take the bike? Is it really the car that's the mantra for New Citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144334	There's just nothing cheap in public transport. Now I come from Aarhus, and there we have in Aarhus Letbane. This is perhaps the biggest infrastructure scandal in recent times in the history of Denmark. It does not move anything from private carism, it costs a great deal of money, and it continues to drain the budget for what else we could use for public transport. In addition, we must build roads, but technology and technological development will also solve a lot of things. For example: is currently developing the first electric plane to fly on electricity from e.g. Aarhus to Copenhagen. The price of it may be one eighth of what it currently costs to fly back and forth. This means that we will think about transport in a completely new way. There is hyperloop, which is a new mode of transport that you start to build from, for example. San Francisco to Los Angeles, and there are some other places like this. from Stockholm to Finland, where you will also try hyperloop. That is a new way of thinking about energy sources. I believe that technology will in future make it possible for us to transport ourselves in many, many other ways, and that is why we should not be stuck in an old-Nordic technology called railways.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144438	No, or an Old Norse technology called a petrol engine or a diesel engine. I think that is just as old as what the rapporteur says public transport is. It is funny that in the rapporteur's speech this cannot be done: electric cars are not CO2 but when it comes to aircraft, there are suddenly huge perspectives. Does the rapporteur not see that there is some strange contradiction in that? After all, there is no doubt that electric cars and hydrogen vehicles are facing rapid development and therefore the mode of transport of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144517	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144518	I am absolutely in favour of electric cars and hydrogen cars, and if citizens want to buy an electric car, then they have to buy one. I've had an electric car myself. So that way, I have nothing against electric cars. What we are talking about here is whether politicians, through behavioral taxes, should try to raise citizens to what kind of car they should buy, and I will by no means do that. But if citizens want to buy an electric car, they have to do so. We in New Citizens would then like to remove the registration tax on all cars, including electric cars, and we also hope that Enhedslisten will help to remove the registration tax on electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144548	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144557	Thank you. The bill is about a construction law for a new Nordhavnstunnel, and that is a very sensible proposal. After all, the Nordhavn tunnel must provide infrastructure to the many citizens who will live in Nordhavn, a new urban development area in Copenhagen. And I can reassure the Jutlanders that it is not something they have to pay; it is the City of Copenhagen that pays it, and a small share of it is paid by this Lynetteholm project, which is also a user-paid system, which is to finance both the construction of the subway to Refshale Island and Lynetteholm, but also to finance the construction of an eastern ring road in the tunnel around Copenhagen. That is the second perspective of the Nordhavn tunnel. One perspective is that it has to provide infrastructure to those who are going to and from Nordhavn, but the other and even greater perspective is that it is the first part of the stretch on the eastern ring road around Copenhagen that ensures that people come from the Amager motorway to the Helsingør motorway without having to go through Copenhagen. In fact, today you have to use the so-called, I think it's called Ringvej 2, and it goes in on Kongens Nytorv if you want to go that way. It's no good in the future, and that's why we need an eastern ring road in the tunnel. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144738	Thank you. There is just one brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144743	As our rapporteur pointed out earlier this day, we can actually see the sense of the Nordhavn tunnel itself. We are not so enthusiastic about the branch chamber because it is on the eastern bypass, or what we call it, and we are certainly not enthusiastic about it. Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen is not saying that it is a problem that, in such a situation, only a road which is for cars is built, i.e. that it is not built, for example. a parallel connection to bikes or for that matter walking? So, this one-sided commitment to carism all the time, which has been affecting this country for 4-5 decades, I would like to hear a comment on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144834	No, I do not think that this is a unilateral effort on drivers, not at all in Copenhagen, where, for example, it has been made. Very many bicycle bridges across the harbour, so you can get there faster if you are a cyclist or a walker. Now it is a decision that the City of Copenhagen has taken, that is, with regard to how the tunnel should be, and I understood that there has been some talk that one should also have a parallel bridge for bicycles, but that one has gone away from it, i.e. that a large large majority in the Citizen's Representation of Copenhagen has voted for all parties except the Alternative to scrap the idea of a parallel bicycle bridge near the future Nordhavnstunnel. I also think that there might be a need for a bicycle connection there, but if there are some technical conditions, some entry conditions that make it impossible, then I should not be wise. I note that a broad majority in Copenhagen's citizens' representation has now considered that this should not be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128144938	Well, of course, I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen also thinks that it could have been sensible if you had done so. And it may be that there are some technical objections, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is in on it. I'm not going to make myself smart. In this way, the Nordhavn tunnel will be such an expression of that kind, I think, a little one-sided commitment to motorism. Now the rapporteur mentioned earlier that Enhedslisten is responsible for a completely crippled idea that only carism is being waged and that public transport must be waged. I just want to say that it has nothing on it. If you look at the investments over the last 25 years, they have gone first and foremost to cars and roads and not so much to railways.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128145026	Thank you to the questioner. Now it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128145030	No, that's not true, sir. Henning Hylllested. And the concrete example of Nordhavn shows it very well. So, the construction of the metro out to Nordhavn and a station on Nordhavn are already underway and will open before the tunnel for the cars out to Nordhavn opens. So the concrete example also shows that, as a matter of fact, public transport has only been targeted, and only then will the tunnel come to the cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128145057	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. We have now finished the rapporteur's series and move on to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128145106	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the largely positive statements in their rapporteur's speeches. The present bill is a derived effect of an agreement of principle concluded in 2014 between the State and the City of Copenhagen. It is an agreement which the Green Group of my own party, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance have agreed to. Part of the agreement is inter alia: the establishment of a Nordhavnstunnel, where the Road Directorate will be responsible for building the tunnel on the basis of a construction law. The government, of course, lives up to the principle agreement of 2014, and that is also why I have submitted this bill to the Danish Parliament. It is not unknown that Nordhavn here in the capital in these years is going through a major development. It is therefore expected that in the future there will be up to 40 000 new residents and just as many jobs in the area. Today there is just a simple access route for cars, buses and trucks to Nordhavn. It goes without saying that the transport services of such a large town, which also includes container port and cruise terminal, must be upgraded. That is why the Nordhavnsmetro is being set up, as the rapporteurs have also mentioned, where the first stations will open next year, and a Nordhavnstunnel. The Nordhavn tunnel must therefore be seen in the context of the development of Nordhavn, and the tunnel will also help to improve the availability of heavy traffic to and from the container port and the cruise terminal, and thus the tunnel will also relieve other road sections on Østerbro. Here residents and traders will get a little more space and a little less traffic. When the Nordhavnstunnelen is completed, it will be transferred to the City of Copenhagen, after which it will have the character of a municipal road. It is therefore also the City of Copenhagen which pays most of the price for the tunnel. The municipality must also operate the tunnel after the opening. Of course, one might ask oneself the question: why not just let the City of Copenhagen do it ourselves? To this end, it follows from the agreement in principle mentioned above that the construction of the tunnel must take place under the auspices of the Road Directorate and on the basis of a construction law. It is therefore not open for discussion. If you read the agreement, it appears that this model has been chosen, as the state has the most experience and more insight into the construction of large road tunnel projects, and it is in itself a sensible principle to let those who have the expertise carry out what they are now good at. Adding to this that the Nordhavn tunnel is being prepared for a subsequent extension in East Ringvej, the State has a considerable interest in the project, in other words precisely to ensure its future. This is also the reason why the preparation for a later transfer in Østlig Ringvej is not paid by the City of Copenhagen, but instead is part of Lynetteholm. The latter was not known for good reasons when the agreement was concluded back in 2014, but it is reasonable that the parts relating to the next project, Lynetteholm and East Ringvej, are also paid for by the next project. And for the sake of good order, I must also point out, as various rapporteurs have also done, that there is also no direct state funding in the project. A number of issues have been raised by the rapporteurs along the way. I'm gonna take a few of them. First of all, there is a slightly low-practical comment. I noticed that Mrs Susanne Zimmer called the tunnel a motorway tunnel, and I assume that was a statement, because it is not a motorway. I'll just say that for the record. It is an ordinary municipal road, which is, after all, a much lower speed. The SF rapporteur referred to the question of East Ringvej and Lynetteholm. As I have said, the Nordhavn tunnel is being prepared for a subsequent transfer to East Ringvej. It will future-proof the tunnel to East Ringvej, which is part of Lynetteholm. Neither the decision on East Ringvej nor Lynetteholm has been taken with the adoption of the Construction Act for the Nordhavn Tunnel. It is important to emphasise this. Eastern Ringvej and Lynetteholm plant will be examined further until 2020. However, if the tunnel is not prepared now, it will mean that the tunnel will subsequently have to be closed to traffic for a longer period of time while preparations are being made. It will also be considerably more expensive to prepare for Eastern Ringvej later. What is happening in practice is that an area of Nordhavn is reserved for the expected route for East Ringvej, so that no further construction is made until it has been examined and decided upon. As the level of knowledge on Eastern Ringvej increases, including the establishment of a concrete route, the area reservation that is in hospital will be reduced and reduced. Implementation is currently under way. a feasibility study on East Ringvej, and it is expected to be completed by 2020. It is only then that a political opinion is taken on a further analysis of this part of the project, including which project one chooses for a possible eastern ring road There have also been questions about the bicycle area, and it is indeed the citizens' representation that has decided on this point. They have decided that no path link is currently being established. The City of Copenhagen has itself stated in its material that • and I quote: A path connection is an independent construction project that can be undertaken after the Nordhavnstunnel has been established. This is mainly because there is no demand for this, cf. The vvm statement. In addition, the path links examined create challenges for e.g.: the sailing clubs in the Bay of Svanemølle. Quote out. The municipality can therefore itself • and it is a little important • choose to establish a path connection at a later stage. But that also means, of course, that we do not have the transport risk that has been mentioned. I think it was Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who mentioned it, i.e. if you imagined that the bikes would ride in the tunnel itself along with the heavy traffic in any case, this could present some challenges. It is clear that when you look at the general way in which bike traffic is run in Copenhagen, it is like Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also highlighted it, very often in his own trace, if I may say so, for example on separate superbike paths, on connections over inland harbours, bridges used only by pedestrians and cyclists etc. It is also mentioned that it was by Mrs Susanne Zimmer that there is a CO2 That is absolutely right, as there will always be an emission and a CO2 issue to take into account. There is, however, the essential point to mention, I think, that it would in itself be the case that if we now assumed that urban development was not being developed in North Harbour, but that urban development could take place elsewhere that was not so close to the city, then the assumption would be that everything else would be more transport needs, i.e. that the transport we need would be longer in itself. This is why it is that you make a dense urban development with the Nordhavns project, in itself climate-friendly. This also means that, when you are centrally located, it promotes, for example, that you can ride a bicycle, or for that matter that you can take the metro, which is the first part of which will be inaugurated next year. So in itself, the principle of urbanization in Copenhagen is, in fact, an advantage, because the alternative should be that you travel longer, and we also know that the longer journeys will take place much more often by car rather than by bicycle or by public transport. So it's an advantage to do it this way as a whole. I think it was the immediate comments that have been needed at this stage, but it is clear that we would be very happy to ensure that the questions which there may be will also be answered in the committee procedure, which I look forward to. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150023	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150026	After all, I do not have a comment to make on what we said in the rapporteur's speech, namely the question of the working clauses which follow such a public procurement procedure and that is, in particular, the control. We see some really, really unfortunate things about the installation of the Storstrøm Bridge at the moment, where the working environment, yes, one can almost say be stepped underfoot almost daily • and the Factory Inspectorate is on the matter etc. But it is a discussion that we have often and often in connection with these public projects, where, as is necessary, working clauses are attached, but where control of the working clauses lags behind. I would just like to ask whether the Minister of Transport has considered whether something else could be done here, whether some control groups could be set up that actually followed the projects all the time. We've also had it around the subway. The City of Copenhagen has now made a control measure in connection with their projects, and since it will be Copenhagen Municipality's way at some point when it is handed over to the City of Copenhagen it might be very sensible to use what the City of Copenhagen has developed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150144	After all, it is not the City of Copenhagen, but the Road Directorate which is going to build it, and that is why it will always be an element that we will be thinking about, in other words how we can secure the working clauses. However, I would just like to make the point regarding the verification that it is true that there are many orders on the Storstrøm Bridge project, but this is due, among other things, to the fact that there is a great deal of control. That is why it is true that there is a great deal on the Storstrøm Bridge and that is not what this bill is all about, but it is nevertheless relevant to take on board that has to be corrected by contractors etc. But it is also being monitored fairly intensively, and we must learn from this and also be able to draw up better expectations with the contractors who are going to work. In itself, however, there are many demands, especially an expression of the fact that very, very intensive controls are also being carried out, and of course I expect that there will be on a project like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150253	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150255	I am, of course, pleased to hear that, because there is nothing more to be said than that the tracks are frightening. It is not just the Storstrøm Bridge, as it is now quite relevant, but indeed also the metro, which was in charge of the tunnel work, is it not? It was also quite wrong with both pay and working conditions, but certainly also with the working environment. That is why we in the Enhedslisten are a little concerned about ensuring that there is effective control in relation to such projects here. It is also about the fact that the foreign companies, who often and often build these projects, are not actually familiar with the Danish culture in this area. That is why it is actually good, if I may say so, to have a daily presence, for example. trade unions which can explain the proper context of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150341	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150342	It is quite true that the daily presence is quite crucial and, in reality, the Storstrøm project is a pretty good example of this because a physical presence of the professional representatives has been established. This has also been done in other places. This close dialogue with the trade union representatives has been conducted, among other things. also had at Crown Princess Mary's Bro in Frederikssund, which was inaugurated recently. That is not to say that we cannot get even smarter and make it even better, because we will always be able to do so, but I think we have actually learned a great deal from the example of the metro construction, as Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions. However, I would like to give an undertaking that this will, of course, be something that will also come into focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150426	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191128150443	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 29 November 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
