ParlaMint-DK_20191112130022	The meeting is open. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112130046	Thank you so much. It is the first question hour in a whole new Parliament, and I am very much looking forward to our debate here and must also note that time is flying away. The first Christmas songs have begun to be played, at least on some of the radio channels, and at the same time I would like to acknowledge that, I think, the good cooperation here in the Folketing is slowly coming on track. We have decided on a temporary family allowance and we have drawn up a broad agreement, which amounts to 1 billion. kr. more for green research, and I would like to thank you for that. In the area of foreigners, we are very seriously looking at the developments that are taking place in northern Syria and Turkey. Yesterday a former IS warrior landed in Denmark, sent here from Turkey. I would like to stress today that we will do everything we can to keep those people out of our society. That is why we have also adopted a law so that we can administratively deprive them of their Danish citizenship if they have another. Thank you for your broad support for this and also for the urgent procedure. Those we cannot keep out, of course, I assume will be punished as hard as possible, and for me this is a matter of Danish security and nothing else. We must, of course, have strict immigration legislation in Denmark and it must hit properly. That is why I also welcome the fact that Mint and other children who are in trouble will soon have another chance with a change of law which also seems to have broad support in this Parliament. On the whole, we in the government want a new asylum system in Europe, an asylum system that is more humane and fairer, both in Denmark and in Europe, where the number of spontaneous asylum seekers is reduced and where we strengthen protection in the neighbourhood. With this we will be able to help more, and we will also be able to take care of Denmark, and at the same time we will hopefully be able to destroy the people smugglers' far too lucrative business. That is why I myself am going to Paris on Monday for a meeting with President Macron, among others. to put the Danish idea of a new asylum system on the table. I think someone will have to take on the European leadership in this area. Today we are also introducing border controls against Sweden, and we are doing so because Denmark must be safe. Denmark must also be for the Danish Jews, and I strongly condemn what has happened this weekend. It is disgusting vandalism, it is harassment, and it is no place to desecrate the graves of other people and families. Antisemitism and racism have no place in Denmark. The police must do what they can to find the criminals and fight this kind of crime, and we must, as Parliament, send our warmest greetings to the Jewish community. We must also be ready to discuss further initiatives if needed. At all events, we need to be safe in Denmark, and we need to be safe when it comes to our welfare. We have now made agreements with municipalities and regions • more money for those who need welfare. I do not claim, either in the opening speech or today, that everything is going to be okay with what we have got in place, but we are taking the first steps, and I think we will do the same when, hopefully, there is a financial agreement • I would like to sign off on the negotiations that are under way in terms of welfare, and that applies in relation to climate. A new majority here in Parliament has set a new direction, thank you for that. I hope that we will have a climate law with binding targets in place before the last Christmas song is played on the radio this year. Already tomorrow we will have the first meeting at Marienborg with the business community, 13 new climate partnerships must be in place, so that we will be committed to all parts of Danish society for the green transition. Last week I was in the Faroe Islands, and earlier this autumn I was also in Greenland. The cooperation seems to me to have got off to a good start, and I would also like to say here that I understand the interest that is both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland for a greater elbow space on the foreign policy stage and on foreign policy issues. I am also looking forward to the cooperation on the Kingdom Community, and I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112130503	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. Now it is the case that we are dealing with questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, and then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. The first to ask is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112130525	Thank you very much. If you search Google Analytics, you see this diagram. Everyone's eyes turned to Greenland, not only from the American side, but also from the Danish side and from the rest of the world. This cardiac diagram shows a series of heartbeats, a few heartbeats, but we also know that a few heartbeats aren't enough to keep people alive. So President Trump's desire to buy Greenland created a positive interest in our country. The snowball that we have been trying to roll in this parliament for many years has become an avalanche that is still rolling. Greenland is not for sale, but open to trade, and Greenland is opening up more and more to the rest of the world. This is positive, because growth to welfare is achieved by having an open market economy as well. And even though we are a small market in Greenland, we are also a market that has some very special products on the shelves, you might say. Tourism, raw materials and innovation are new growth industries, which must help ensure an even stronger and even more dispersed economy, because one-sided exports of fish are not enough. A sustained interest and more business initiatives are crucial to a robust economy, and Greenland clearly has the greatest responsibility for it. However, foreign policy can also be used to promote trade and to promote exports, and we believe that fine words are not enough, but that more action is needed. Therefore, it is also problematic that we clearly know where Trump is in relation to Greenland, but that we do not as clearly know where the Prime Minister and the government are in relation to Greenland. Most recently, we have seen a forged letter trying to turn a wedge into the Kingdom Community, and that worries us in IA, and we would really like to help ensure that the government becomes more concrete, because it is important to build up trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112130733	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112130735	Thank you for the question. I recognize the intense interest not only in the Kingdom community, but especially in Greenland during the period in question. I must be said to be involved quite a lot, including in the global discussion. I must say, I think we showed the strength of the Kingdom community in those days. I was glad that I was in Greenland when the discussion went on. I am also pleased to have such a close relationship with Greenlandic politicians that when such a storm comes from outside, we can text and call each other with the greatest naturalness and meet quickly and get a common line, and that is what we are going to do in the Kingdom when it comes to foreign policy. I am not a second in doubt about the value of the Kingdom community, its historical significance, but also its importance in the future. Not only are many families woven together; we carry a common story, and together we are stronger than each other. I also feel the same way about the Kingdom Community, I would like to say that for me it is not a static size. The Community of Kingdoms is what we are making it us who are responsible for it today. That is why it is a dynamic size and it must evolve over time. I believe that a number of initiatives are under way, including in the field of foreign policy, which actually highlights this and illustrates it, for example our ability to share confidential material, which has not been in the past. This is some of the work that is going on right now and which I, as Prime Minister, look forward to with great interest, because in a mutually binding community as the Kingdom Community, we must also be able to share some of the most important things with each other. The American interest in Greenland and the Arctic in general is increasing. Our Danish interests for the same have been at the same high level, and I would like to contribute myself to achieving an even higher level.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112130941	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112130943	Thank you very much. The objective is an equal partnership, and the aim must also be to ensure greater independence from the block grant, but also a stronger, more equal and more free and strong political community between our countries. They say it takes two for a boxing match, but it also takes two for a tango. And if there is a stagnation in the Kingdom community, we also know that tensions are increasing. A majority can also help to look another way towards finding the closest partner, and that is something that worries us, because if we do not develop together, we can no doubt also expect that development is controlled from outside and whether it is from the United States, whether it is from China or whether it is from Russia, we can basically say that none of us wants that. That is why it also requires leadership, and some of what we note is that in the paper of understanding there are barely two lines about the Kingdom community. We would very much like to hear: how will this be put into practice, and how will the government carry out its policy when it comes to Greenland over the next four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131049	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131050	It is really important for me to say here that the paper of understanding is, after all, the paper that the government has agreed with three of the parties in the Danish Parliament on this is not an exhaustive list and it has not been intended as an exhaustive list. And it is clear that the Kingdom community could easily get a whole paper because it is so important. It is, moreover, a work that I imagine we are organising jointly here in the Folketing, both the North Atlantic mandates and all parties that have a great interest in this. I think there are several important elements in this. There is one element that I know both the questioner and myself are very, very close, and these are the Greenlandic children. Many Greenlandic children are well, but too many are not well enough. And we have a very special obligation to have even closer cooperation when it comes to Greenlandic children, so that the neglect we see is soon a thing of the past. Another area which is, of course, absolutely crucial is foreign and security policy, where we will have the ties sealed in these years, and we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131200	It's the last round. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131202	Thank you very much for the announcements of a North Atlantic paper. We are certainly happy to contribute to that. It is precisely welfare that is very much at the heart of IA. We really want to transform this welfare crisis, which we believe is in Greenland, into a welfare promise. We believe that there are far too many families for children and also older people who live a life where you go for lye and cold water, and we would really like that to change. In Greenland we also see that the economy in these years is very good, and what is really needed is to channel some of the money into increased welfare, because in this way you can help create an even stronger society. Economic growth is something we see in Greenland these years, but on a rather vulnerable basis. And we would also like to see perhaps, unlike a number of Greenlandic parties, that one cooperates with Denmark to ensure increased business development, investment and interest in Greenland, and I would like to hear that is something that the government also agrees with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131258	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131259	We are here in the Folketing, among other things. I think that is a natural place to start when it comes to working on that paper, because it is an old strategy and, in my view, it is not up to date. This is one of the first major tasks we have together. As far as Greenlandic children are concerned, I was about to say that I am willing to do everything we can, from the Danish side I do not come as the starting point for the discussion to say that there are things we do not want to be involved in and things we do not want to contribute to that I think we should discuss further. In the field of business policy, it is natural to work together where we either have a mutual interest or some competences we can use individually. And may I not finally say that when it comes to specifically how Greenland spends its own economy on internal Greenlandic conditions, it is not really a matter for the Folketing, nor is it a matter for us to interfere with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131356	We thank Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and move on to Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131405	Thank you for the floor. I'm a little excited here the first time. Greenland is not Danish, Greenland is Greenlandic. That is what the Prime Minister said earlier this year during a visit to Greenland, and I think that a great many in this Chamber are not aware that it is actually a sentence for the history books in Greenland, just as the phrase "There is nothing to raffle about being remembered in Greenland, from when the former Prime Minister Mr. Anker Jørgensen said that Greenland could not have the right to the underground, as it was unconstitutional; so, this was also remembered in Greenland's history. However, as you know, Greenland was still granted the right to the underground ten years ago, without it being unconstitutional. It is because times change, as we politicians do, and something as inviolable as a constitution is again being interpreted again. So even if in some areas one can argue that foreign policy is Danish foreign policy is not Greenlandic because of the limitations of the constitution, one can also argue that autonomy is constitutional in principle, yet time and again, after each legislation and after each precedent, one has reinterpreted how one reads and understands the constitution, and how one can nevertheless allow people to evolve through time and according to need, without being unconstitutional. The Prime Minister has indicated that she sees sense in Greenland having greater foreign policy competence, which is good. And Siumut would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how she sees this being achieved and, if necessary, what dialogue is there with the Greenland Government about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131553	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131556	In addition to thanking the question, I should like to start by saying that, as Danish Prime Minister, I have a huge respect for the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and I am basically talking about three equal partners in a kingdom community. There is a historical heritage that we bear for good and evil, each one together. In our future cooperation and in the community that is today the Kingdom Community, mutual respect must, in my view, be the key word. Of course, both the Faroe Islands and Greenland are preoccupied with the foreign policy situation and scene; everything else would be strange. The rear, if you will, because this discussion is, of course, the basic law. And I'm not going to break the Constitution, and I'm not going to recommend that anyone in this thing break the Constitution. It is clear that this is the basis on which we stand, and that is the basis on which we legislate. Looking at the Kingdom community over recent decades, it has developed quite considerably. There is a difference between home government and self-government, which is why I also said at the outset that, in my view, the Commonwealth is not a static size which should look the same in 20 years' time as it looks today; it is a dynamic size, and that also applies to foreign affairs. I'm in dialogue with both Greenlandic and Faroese leaders... the Faroe Islands have just got a new government on how to find our way in this with a constitution as a foundation and a desire for a greater role when it comes to foreign policy. What is of course important here is that, when we speak on the foreign policy stage, we speak as a kingdom community and not separately. And it is in the field of tension that we must see if we can find a way together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131751	Aki Matilda-Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131754	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. After all, in several interviews, the Prime Minister has also expressed an understanding of the desire for state formation, and the Prime Minister's respect for the Greenlandic people and the wishes that we as a population have is also what creates trust between our two nations. The desire for state formation has often been misunderstood and is not very popular to mention for many Danish politicians. But it is not a distance from Denmark, because what it is really about is becoming part of the global world, being part of the free trade markets and having the right of sovereignty over its own country in the future. I believe that the Prime Minister's Greenland policy helps to create the basis for a real close alliance between Greenland and Denmark and for a future Greenlandic state. I would therefore like to hear what the Prime Minister is going to do in the future to strengthen equality even more, so that in the future we have the close alliance between Greenland and Denmark, whether you become a state or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131901	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112131903	I actually believe that one of the most important tasks that can be undertaken in politics is to try to understand the world from the point of view of other people. Now I was in the Faroe Islands last week and met with young cousins. Then there is one of those who asks me: can you understand that we would like to be able to participate in the Olympic Games? Then, of course, I said it depends on whether you can beat a Danish athlete, no, joke aside. I understand that. I understand that, if you are a sportsman, you want to be able to participate in the Olympics. This is just one example of what the Kingdom community means, even when it sometimes brings some limitations. I actually believe that this is the task, namely to try to see the kingdom community through Greenlandic glasses and Faroese glasses, even though I am Danish myself. I think that is the way forward. It is equality, orderlyness and respect and, of course, a huge solidarity with each other, because we are, crosswise and not least historically, bound together in all possible ways and will also be forward-looking. But with properness and respect, I think we'll be the longest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132018	Aki Matilda-Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132020	Thank you very much for your answer. Now the paper of understanding was also mentioned for a short time, and I would just like to say that we were in the process, even though we were not one of the parties involved in this very debate on the understanding paper. However, we helped to influence what was said in relation to Greenland. I was asked directly on behalf of Siumut, and we are very happy about that. Thank you. It's also an understanding paper. It also says that we want to move forward within equality and that we want to strengthen the responsibilities that Denmark also carries out in relation to Greenland. And then we've talked about police pay the last couple of times, and we've talked about equality with government employees. And I would like to ask very briefly: how does the Prime Minister see the future development of equal value for equal work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132118	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132120	I think that is a fundamental and good principle, and that also applies to the police. I've been working on this area myself in the past, including Detective Services, and there are challenges. I know that there is a close dialogue between Denmark and Greenland about how we get on with this track. I would just like to wait for the outcome of this debate, because I think there are some challenges in this area that we must of course take seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132155	We thank Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam. The question is over. The next question is Mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132200	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. I hope that the Prime Minister had a good orientation trip when last week she was in the Faroe Islands in good company with the Faroe Islands' lagman, Bárður á Steig Nielsen, who is also my party chairman. One of the topics that fills part of the Faroe Islands and gradually also in Denmark is the increased export of the Faroe Islands to Russia. I expect this topic was also mentioned on the Prime Minister's orientation trip to the Faroe Islands. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister consider increased Faroese exports to Russia as a challenge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132308	Before the Prime Minister has the floor, I should like to say that I have been told that there is a very bad sound in the Chamber. Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do about that right now, but we will be aware of it. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132321	First of all, I would like to say that I had a really, really good trip to the Faroe Islands. I must also admit that this is a place where I do not reach my predecessor to the sock holders, i.e. in the spirit of the Danish-Fiero Islands. So I'm gonna make a little extra effort, and I'm gonna try to do that. But we had a really, really good journey, and I have already met with the new layerman three times, and this shows something about how high we both prioritise cooperation. So it was a very good journey, and it is also quite crucial that we as Danish politicians get around well in our kingdom community, because there is so much difference between the conditions under which we live and thus also make political decisions. When it comes to political decisions, I think, speaking of the discussion I have just had with our Greenlandic colleagues, that there must be a fairly clear respect for division of labour in our Kingdom community. After all, we can have different views on areas that are Greenlandic, Danish and Faroese respectively, but where we do not have a competence in relation to each other, and in my view we must respect the division and division of tasks between the countries. It is also about the trade area when we look at the Faroe Islands. And, of course, quite a lot is now merging, including with regard to foreign policy, and therefore there may be some grey areas. We will then have to discuss them, but I do not want to go into it, whether it is about how to prioritise purely Greenlandic funds in Greenland's policy or how to deal with areas, for example in the Faroe Islands, which are not Danish matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132505	Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132508	I appreciate the answer. I once asked the Secretary-General of NATO, Stoltenberg, about exports to Russia, and he replied something like this: just make sure that security policy and defence policy are in order; then you can sell. I was glad to hear that answer, but I am also pleased with the Prime Minister's reply today. It is a Faroese matter, the Faroe Islands are outside the EU, the Faroe Islands are not boycotted, so this is a different situation from that of the EU countries. The Faroe Islands have their own movement. That is why I would like to ask in another way: does the Prime Minister think that it is possible that the Faroe Islands' limited trading opportunities with the European Union are one of the reasons for the growing trade relations with Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132619	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132621	I very much do not want to assess why the Faroe Islands are doing what the Faroe Islands are doing in the field of trade. In fact, I think that is a question that should be asked to the lagman and the Faroese Government and not to the Danish Government. When it comes to relations between the European Union and Denmark, Denmark is part of the European Union, and the Faroe Islands are not the Faroe Islands, there is ongoing dialogue, but also negotiation on how this cooperation will work. But I don't want to be a motive researcher on why the Faroe Islands are doing what the Faroe Islands are doing in the field of trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132657	Sir. Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132659	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. The Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands has a clear ambition to work towards a real free trade agreement with the EU, which will provide access to a large market for Faroese fisheries products. With Denmark as a member of the European Union, I think it is obvious that the Danish Government and the Faroese Home Rule Government are working together to fulfil this Faroese wish. I would therefore like to end by asking the Prime Minister whether the Danish Government, on behalf of Denmark as a member of the European Union, is willing to strike a blow for the Faroese Home Rule Government's desire for a real free trade agreement with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132753	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132754	So that's what it was supposed to lead to. I was wondering why these questions are coming. I simply do not dare to answer that on a stand-by basis. After all, the European Union has a number of good trade agreements, and of course we are concerned that the Faroe Islands can act both one way and the other with the Europe of which we ourselves are part. Then I should not be quite careful to make a positive statement without being able to reply more precisely than that to the question. So it is a call for us to look at this issue together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132828	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. That concludes the question. The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112132840	Thank you for that, President. First of all, of course, I would like to welcome the Prime Minister to the first Question Time as Prime Minister here five months after the elections. It's also my first question time, and I've been looking forward to it. Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his clear and unequivocal disapproval of the abominable anti-Semitic acts which took place, among others. Randers this weekend. It is also important to use some words on that now, and it is important that we stand together on that signal. There is a lot of talk about the need to be adaptable in these years, and both the Prime Minister and I know a little about this, and in the last four years it has been the Prime Minister's job to ask critical questions, but now is the time to give enlightening answers. It will be exciting to follow, because I think that during the time we have been sitting, the government is the only government in recent times for which it has been possible to become even less concrete than when you were in opposition. Early withdrawal, infrastructure, minimum standards, performance commission, savings on consultants, police conciliation, climate action plan, Lindholm, new asylum system, greater biodiversity and plans for psychiatry are things that we need to look at. There are not really any major agreements concluded other than those resulting from the calendar year. The Prime Minister sits at the end of a one-party government and is, I must understand, the one who decides everything, and so I would like to ask: what really annoyed the Prime Minister most to jam?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133028	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133030	First of all, I would also like to welcome the President of the Left, not in the Assembly Chamber, but in our new roles, and I look forward very much to it. You need a lot of things when you sit in government, but perhaps the most important task, no, the uncontested most important task is to take care of Denmark and to look after the Danes, and then the most important task, I think, is to lead, make political decisions, not to decide everything.Something would probably be easier if I did, but I do not do that and think about how to make decisions, but also the best decisions. That is why we should not be so afraid of spending some more time every now and then, for example, we are doing so right now when we have to adopt a Climate Act, and I hope that will mean that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind the Climate Act, so that when we come into the spring and have to have a climate action plan, we will actually start moving on the green area. That's the way we work. It may sometimes take a little more time, but I think the results will be there. May I not also welcome the words about the anti-Semitism that I think we are experiencing in Denmark, and at the same time say that I think it is more serious than what we just saw here this weekend, and that was serious enough. To desecrate families' tombs, vandalism, harassment of Jewish Danes is in itself cross-border and wrong, but I am afraid that the problems are deeper. In addition to what is happening on the extreme right, I believe that we must also recognise that there are parts of the immigrant environment in Denmark which do not respect the Jewish minority and which, in their attitude, are quite different from what should be the focal point of a democratic, decent, free Denmark, namely that one recognizes and respects one another. I have met Jews who, for example, dare not go to Nørrebro and who can be insecure. It is actually just to say that I think the problem is bigger than what we saw this weekend, and we should get something done about it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133250	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133252	Thank you. One of the beauty of these collections is that there are things that we can stand together on, be completely unbreakable, and then there are things that we can love and disagree about. The last point raised by the Prime Minister is hardly going to disagree on, and good for it. As far as the first point is concerned, it just strikes me that when the current government was in opposition, there were some things that seemed a little easier. You're very fast now... there's a lot of sound coming on... to say this is a tough case. Before the election there were many things that seemed to be a very simple matter, and there are others who have tried it before. In the past, immediate action was called for, and now we are insisting on thinking about it, and I should not be sorry that the government wants to think about it, but before the elections, for example, it could be done. so quickly save 3 billion. kr. on consultancy services from 2020. Now that is something that we want to look at, and we want to set up a working group, without consulting consultants. Now you have the power, why don't you just do this? Is that too hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133403	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133405	No, it is not, and I think we should save 3 billion. kr. on the use of consultants. I think we should do that, and I really appreciate it if the President of the Left supports it, because then we will have the majority to do it; then we will have to find the right time and the right purpose. I think we should do this, and in recent months as Prime Minister I have only been confirmed in, I have to say that we are simply spending too much of the Danes' money on something wrong. This does not mean that there are no consultancy tasks that are important to carry out, but I think we just have to recognise that in recent years we have turned the welfare ship the wrong way. And instead of spending money on it, welfare in my eyes is about children and the elderly, people affected by illness or disability, and others who need a welfare society, we are making processes and projects to an extent that we have not seen in the past. If we want to create a better welfare society together we can disagree about what a good welfare society is, also about how much money we would like to spend on it I just have to say, as I did in my opening speech, that the answer is not only to add more money, even if we are doing so, and we are doing so with open eyes, and we are also proud of it. If we do not start spending some money differently, we will not have a seriously significant other welfare society. So, yes, we have to save 3 billion. kr. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Authority considers that the aid is
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133520	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133523	Well, thank you for that, and thank you for an almost exemplary clear answer. The Prime Minister then asks for the right time to do so. That could be in connection with the Finance Act... maybe that's why the Minister of Finance sits next door and looks a little like a question mark. It could have been nice to get those 3 billion. kr. I am sure the Minister of Finance could have found something interesting to spend on. There are some other areas where it is difficult to be concrete, for example. on the issue of biodiversity, my own old resort. I note with great satisfaction that the Prime Minister held an excellent and well-visited conference for good people who know a lot about this at Marienborg. But some of the easy solutions remained in line until recently, for example. The demand that we should simply have 75 000 hectares of unspoiled forest, and we should have it now is something we have to look at, something we have to look at. I think the climate minister was a little confused about whether it was something that cost money or what it was like. Well, it's okay to pull it a little bit, but why was it so easy to be so firm then, when it's so hard today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133633	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133636	The ideas we put forward before the elections are going to be implemented; of course, we do not do everything at once. 75,000 hectares of forest untouched that is our goal. I think we will do it in a slightly different way than that government, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself belonged, where it was decided to have an untouched forest, but then the trees fell before they left it untouched. There I think we are doing things a little bit wiser, because it doesn't matter what quality our nature has. At all events, I must say that we are well under way. We are negotiating financial law right now; I am hoping for a result within a few weeks. I think that a new majority is going to show that you don't have to save on welfare every year, and if you dare give the money the right and wiser priority, you can also avoid saving on young people's education, then you can hire 1,000 more nurses, then you can start on the boost I think Danish children deserve in day nurseries and kindergartens, and then of course there are some things where we think about, in terms of how we do it wisely we actually reported it before the election that we had intended to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133749	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The next one is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133755	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the initial comments on today's Question Time, and I would also like to thank you in particular for the comments on the abuses that have taken place against Danish Jews. This is totally unacceptable, and I think it is quite appropriate that we all stand together to distance ourselves from it and show that something like this should not take place in Danish society. The Prime Minister also mentions that there has been some temporary border control in Sweden. I think it was last night that we were up to the 35th shooting in Malmö on the 35th shooting in Malmö alone this year. It shows something about what dangers we are living with just right in our vicinity. Yesterday the first foreign warrior, a former IS warrior, landed at Copenhagen Airport in Kastrup, despite the fact that in an update only yesterday the Prime Minister informed the Danish people that these people are not welcome in Denmark. The Prime Minister also mentioned that if they have dual citizenship, we have now had legislation urgently processed so that they can lose it and so on. etc. I think it is absolutely crazy that these people are starting to return to Danish society and must have legal advice paid by Danish taxpayers, some are going to hospital and have medical care, etc., and then the Danish taxpayers can be allowed to finance some people who have turned their backs on Denmark, have gone to Syria and have fought a bestital battle down there against the values we stand for, against everything we want to mark. They are now on their way home. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister today in this first question hour where we have the opportunity to do so, what the government is doing in concrete terms to ensure that no more foreign fighters return on Danish soil. Well, what does the government do specifically to ensure that in relation to the update that the Prime Minister among other things. Yesterday, but also on previous occasions, have marked the fact that these people are not welcome in Denmark, in fact, will also be such that no more than the one we have now seen set foot on Danish soil?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112133959	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134001	It is absolutely crazy that we should even welcome those people. This is, I think, an emphasis on the fact that some of the international rules of the game that we are subject to and which we have endorsed sometimes protect the wrong ones. The international conventions here do. They protect people who have turned their backs on Denmark and who have nothing to do in our country, and they do not protect the rest of us. It could perhaps serve to give us a slightly more nuanced discussion on the whole issue of the convention, because here is a clear example of the conventions protecting the wrong ones and not all of us. It was not the first foreign warrior to return to Denmark yesterday. A great many foreign fighters have returned to Denmark, even under the previous government, unfortunately very many even. And it is perhaps very good to see that a number of foreign fighters actually live in Denmark, with which the previous government could not stop and with which we will also have challenges in the future, unless, of course, there is a dual citizenship. That is why it was important to get that legislation in place. What else do we do? We're not just gonna stand here and look at this. As paragraph 1, we are going to put forward legislative proposals which are also about the children born in conflict areas. As paragraph 2, I would like to say from here today that I have, of course, asked the Minister of Justice to go back and see if we can tighten the legislation even more: can we tighten the penalty? What leads do we have to go down? These people don't belong in Denmark. We're not going to welcome them. I do not think that there is any way that there are some, but not a majority, who want to denounce the international conventions. That is why we need to find a way within the conventions. But basically, it is incredibly problematic that these people want to go to Denmark at all. That is why I would like to report that, of course, we are looking at whether we can tighten up the penalties even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134207	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134209	Thanks for the answer here in the first round. Now, in many ways, I wish the Prime Minister well. That is why my question has also been provoked a little by this situation of the Prime Minister going out, it also happened yesterday, with an update and telling the Danes that these people don't belong in Denmark, because it can of course take the character of "and don't misunderstand me." "Comic Ali," who stood in Iraq and said that there were no American soldiers in Iraq while we saw pictures of the American tanks rolling into the streets. And if it is the case that the Prime Minister on the social media and also here in the Chamber says that these people have nothing to do in Denmark, and at the same time they land in Kastrup at Copenhagen Airport, then the Danish people will probably be left a little moony. We are at least faced with those who have dual citizenship. This was the legislation we adopted here in the Danish Parliament on 24 October, and the government asked for the proposal to be dealt with urgently.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134314	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134316	I can tell you that the law has been put into effect. In other words, the authorities are using that law. I do not have the opportunity to say anything more about this, because it is also a matter of sensitive information. But the law has been put into effect, fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134334	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134336	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that this is the way forward. But can the Prime Minister tell us anything about how to ensure that this is implemented, so as to ensure that there are no more people with dual citizenship who can legally set foot on Danish soil? You can be smuggled in and all sorts of things, but at least we have the opportunity, if you come by plane, to make sure that people do not enter Denmark. And when you say that the law has been put into effect, you might be able to get a little closer. I understand that there is sensitive information which, of course, cannot be given in full public, but the Prime Minister may nevertheless come a little closer, how to put it into use, and how to ensure that the people involved cannot actually get to Denmark so that airlines etc. are aware that these people cannot come to Denmark from now on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134427	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134429	First of all, I would like to sign that we could do it as quickly as we did, because it happened that with the changes in the northern part of Syria our authorities were aware that there could be a situation in which Syrians who were previously unable to come here were given the opportunity to do so. And so we moved, it must be said, together very quickly here in the Things and got the law in place. And what is happening now is, of course, that the responsible authorities are in the process of making the law work, and that means creating the possibility of administratively depriving some of the persons concerned of their Danish nationality. So it's already under way. I would also like to call on everyone to come up with good ideas on how, within the framework of international rules, we can tighten the tape even more on these people. I'll be glad to hear about them. And we ourselves, as a government, are wondering whether we can tighten up the penalties even more. If there are opportunities that the previous government did not avail itself of, I would be happy to do so, and all good ideas are received with a kiss hand, because as the Prime Minister of the country, I will do what I can to ensure that these people do not come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134544	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134550	I have also been looking forward to standing here today, but I also think it is appropriate to start by mentioning the sad background that emerged during this weekend's events in relation to the Jewish community in Denmark, and then on the crystal night, and this is unfortunately not the first time. I have to admit, it ran cold down my back when I saw it not only around the graveyard, but also those mailboxes with yellow stars on it. It's so mean and historyless that you don't really know where to do on your own. And in addition to seeing that there are hate crimes in Denmark, I think we have to see it as there is a need for us to gather more and make sure that there is room for minority, also religious minority, whatever it is, and that we mark ourselves sharply when there is this type of crime that really creates insecurity. But the weekend was also a historical mark of something else, namely the fall of the Wall, which expresses something different in the wake of World War II and the extermination of the Jews. And the fact that Europe was united, I think, is also important to mark on this occasion, in other words that it is something positive: borders were broken down, walls were broken down and the countries of Europe came closer together. That is why it is also just a positive indication that, in relation to the efforts to find a better common European response to refugee and migration problems, the Prime Minister is allying with President Macron in France instead of doing what we saw the previous government do, namely looking for the most right-wing forces in Europe. I think that is a strong and important signal. I also hope that this is an expression of perhaps a little more positive and active action by the Prime Minister in relation to Europe, where what we have heard so far, the most of all, was a brake on continued positive developments in Eastern Europe, on the European budget and a clear 'no' by the government in relation to increased European defence cooperation. And I don't think that creates security or security.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134806	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112134808	First of all, thank you for the words in relation to what happened this weekend. I believe that we must not underestimate at all what it means if the Folketing can unite that racism and anti-Semitism have no place in our society and that we also see it as our obligation to do what we can to counteract it in all aspects and in all respects. All minorities deserve that. After all, I do not think that there is anything negative on the European scene about being the budgetary chip. Someone has to be, and I'm going to be. I actually see it a little opposite. If we can get to a European budget that reflects the situation of Europeans and Europe, then I think we can get more support for European cooperation. But if I am going to return to the Danes and say that we need to spend many more billions out of a room for manoeuvre which is already limited, then I do not think that is the right way to go. After all, I feel that the Europe we are seeing right now is well in many ways, but we are also challenged. Well, we are challenged in many of our welfare societies to get properly invested in education and climate solutions, and in my view we are on long stretches better at doing that separately. So when I think it is important to keep a budget line in Europe, it is actually for Europe's sake. It is, of course, also for the sake of Danish taxpayers and, indeed, for the sake of Europe as well. I think it is very natural to have a Danish-French cooperation. This applies to migration, it also applies to climate, and this applies to the taxation of tech giants, where I see a French President who is much more offensive than at least what we see from any of the other countries. So it is a very natural place, I think, to strengthen the Danish European commitment. If I may just say on the question of enlargement: what has disappeared a little, I think, in this discussion is perhaps also some differences between North Macedonia and Albania, because some of what I have at least advocated is whether or not the question of the two countries could be separated, and that has just slipped a little out of the public debate, I can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135023	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135024	Well, then, I am glad to have given rise to at least a nuanced view. But when we talk about solving, among other things... serious problems • refugee problems, security problems jointly within the EU, it is also about the security that the Prime Minister was talking about at the beginning. And one of the nearest things that creates security is when you have security about your family and your family life. And just as there are major disasters in the world that require a joint responsibility to avoid large flows of refugees, so there are many more people who travel to work, study or anything else and meet their love there. And when we made the agreement in the early summer, which formed the basis for the government to be created, we said that there should be more common sense in foreign policy. And I'd like to appeal to you when the conversation falls on security... that the government also thought a little more about the security of the Danes, who have foreign spouses and actually just want to live a peaceful life in Denmark and contribute to the Danish society. And specifically, if you would not at least help to clean up the rules in this area and ensure that it becomes clear to everyone what the conditions are. For right now, it is completely unclear what kind of legal situation is in this area for Danes with foreign spouses.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135143	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135144	I think that one of the most important things we can do in the field of foreigners is precisely to give it a better balance and more common sense. And the fact that we can hopefully adopt very strict legislation for foreign fighters at a few weeks' intervals, while at the same time welcoming Mint and other children in the same situation back to Denmark, I think that we are telling something about who we should hit negatively with foreign policy and who we should hit positively. Family reunification rules are somewhat more complicated, and I must be honest and say that the very lenient family reunification rules that have been in Denmark for many years have helped us to face far too great integration challenges today. There have simply been too many people coming to Denmark who are not in a position to integrate, at least have not done so. This has led to serious equality problems and other problems as well. So we need some very, very tight family reunification rules. This does not mean that we do not sometimes see examples of some who get stuck. Of course, I do not want to comment on individual cases. We must always see whether the rules are right, but in general I am in favour of the fact that we have very strict family reunification rules. Otherwise we simply cannot control how many people come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135302	Sir. Morten Østergaard, final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135305	So let's get on with security. I believe that there are now many Danes who find it strange that the police do not have the resources to come when they have had break-ins, but see that police resources can easily be directed to border controls, which is at least debatable what the effect is. But it is quite wrong with common sense when you follow a case like that with Lasse and Iamae, the Danish-Brazilian couple, where she stood with her plane ticket in her hand and asked the immigration authorities how to handle her family reunification case. Instead of telling her and letting her leave the country as she was told, they called the police, who then locked her up, detained her, and now she still stays away in Denmark, although three weeks ago she had a ticket to travel out completely voluntarily. When she saw Thursday travels out, she will be accompanied by officers through Copenhagen Airport. There will be an agreement with officers at Amsterdam Airport, and she will only be given her passport by the captain when they approach Brazilian airspace. Well, what kind of waste is that? In any case, it cannot be said in any reasonable way that common sense is at stake when she would have travelled long ago by volunteering, and when Danish police resources have then been used to hold her and follow her out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135417	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135420	I understand that, in this particular case, the Minister has asked for an explanation of exactly what has happened, and I will of course see it when it lands. After all, our task is to try to create rules in the area of family reunification, which are both transparent and sensible. And this is difficult, because it is clear that if everyone who came to Denmark learned our language, rushed to get a job, supported themselves, did not commit crime and made sure that their children got along properly, then it would not be difficult to have rules in the area of family reunification. However, when the situation is that the family reunification rules have been used in many respects to create even greater integration problems and, for example, to draw many women from a non-western background which has not been integrated, we need to have strict family reunification rules. This does not, of course, make me say that there is nothing in this matter that seems unhappy and that immediately does not seem to represent our desire for common sense without knowing it. So I really think it is reasonable that the minister responsible has asked for a statement, and I will read it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135520	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135527	Thank you. How positive it is to have a common condemnation in the Folketing of what has happened to the Jewish people in Denmark from the left to the right! And it is good to see that we stand together against racism and anti-Semitism. So I just want to start by saying that. And then I would like to sign for the good and constructive cooperation we have with the government and with the Prime Minister thank you for that. Now, of course, we need to get to work on the visions and make them a reality in the climate area, not least in the area of children, and I think we are well into the negotiations on next year's Finance Act and in the discussions on a new binding climate law. That is why I would like to put my question to the Prime Minister on a completely different street today. It is about our commitment to the fight against tax havens in Europe, in the European Union, and the work to introduce a European financial tax. At their previous Council of Ministers, the EU's finance ministers left another country, a tax haven, off their tax havens, namely Belize. It is a list that is becoming thinner and thinner, and thus it is a joint effort against tax havens that are becoming increasingly watered down. The Tax Justice Network organisation has examined a number of countries on the EU tax havens, and Belize scores very little because the country keeps tax information secret; in fact Belize runs at about the same level of financial secrecy as the well-known tax havens: Switzerland, Panama and Cayman Islands. Tax havens are cheating today in our society for billions of dollars that could have been spent on welfare, green conversion and education. I think the Minister for Finance knows about that in these times of finance laws and the dilution of tax havens shows that the EU is too slow and far from the goal of combating tax havens. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government will take the lead in the fight against tax havens in the EU so that the EU's tax havens can be tightened up with new tough criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135733	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135735	I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. I believe that this is the case in broad terms with the parties of the Folketing, but it is clear that there are some parties we spend more time with than others. I think we have got off to a good start in fulfilling the things that are in our understanding paper and, at the very least, in solving the task that we have together to bring together all the fine words of the election campaign............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So thank you so much. The short answer to the question is: Yes. Tax havens are a huge problem. It is unsolidarous and, in my view, it is incompatible with what we want to build a Europe on, namely that everyone responds to their own needs and that we can be confident that each of us pays the tax we have to pay. This is the case at home, where the recovery of the tax administration is a long-term task, I think, which we have a joint responsibility to do something about. But that's also true out there. And I think we should put in more places. I understand from the specific example that it has already been asked to look at what criteria are there. It is wise to do so, but we do need to go further. This is true in relation to tax havens; it is true in relation to the idea of a financial tax, which we are in favour of. This also applies in relation to the tech giants and theirs, I was about to say tax payments, but more correctly: missing tax payments. I think that is the whole problem in this: we have plenty of small businesses, lots of small craftsmen, medium-sized enterprises, all of which are doing what they have to do, and are struggling with VAT accounts, and then you can see that some of the big fish are rushing through the net, among other things. because of lack of legislation. So the short answer, and now it's a little longer, is a yes to us going into this work, and we're going to prioritize that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135928	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112135930	That's a good thing. That is really one of the things we need the European Union for, that is, for those things that are cross-border. There is no doubt that the financial sector has understood that there is a frontierless Europe, so if we do not succeed in creating European rules, it is really taxpayers who will pay in the end. That is why I am also pleased that the Prime Minister is so positive about the fight against European tax havens. Then I will move on to the issue of the European financial tax. For the Minister for Finance, the Folketing replied on 10 October that the government would like to take a positive view of the ten European countries which have taken the lead in working on a financial tax and would also like to continue working on it. There I am so curious: where is the government in that process? Has it begun to approach the ten countries and to say that we would like to take part in the work, or are you an observer, in relation to what they are going to achieve? After all, it also matters whether you are involved in drawing up what a European financial tax should look like or whether you are just waiting and hoping that it will be sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140030	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140031	It really means a lot whether you are waiting for what is happening or whether you are actively entering into it. A very good example of this is the taxation of tech giants, where until the change of government Denmark was simply on the wrong side of Europe, so it was on the side that did not want us to go this way. After all, there is now a new majority and a new government that sees this issue differently. I think we should be allowed to come back if I am to answer this exhaustively what exactly has been going on in this question. However, I would also like today to emphasise and indicate that a common taxation system in the financial sector seems to me to be the right way to go. It is not quite easy, that is, how exactly to do it, but the idea is good and we pursue it. But I have to come back if I am to reply in very specific terms to what exactly has been going on in this particular case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140133	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140134	But I guess I won't allow myself to put too many words in my mouth if I say that I sense that the government wholeheartedly backs some kind of financial tax and now it's about getting it drafted. And there I hope that instead of waiting for it to be completed, the government will enter into the work and make contact with the ten countries so that we can play a part in dominating it, so that it can be done on good terms. For what is absolutely crucial for the welfare society of the future is that we ensure that we can deliver taxes, even with regard to some of those who have found out that there are opportunities outside traditional tax systems. It is not just to demand taxes from someone, but it is because they must contribute in the countries where they act, and not only in those countries where there are tax systems with low taxes. So it's absolutely crucial for SF. I therefore hope that it will be said, at least on the part of the government, that we will try to make representations to the ten countries and try to see whether we can get involved in the work on drawing up the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140220	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140222	But this applies in general to the areas of European policy which we as a country consider to be particularly important to us. It may be because we differ from other countries. This is what our labour market model is doing because we want strong labour rights, and that is why we want stronger efforts in relation to social dumping; it is on the climate agenda, where, thanks to pressure from our parliamentary basis, we have to say, is one of the most ambitious governments in terms of reductions by 2030; or it is in relation to creating a new asylum system. We should not wait for others to take the lead in Europe, but do it ourselves. And I would like to confirm that we are doing so in as many areas as we possibly can.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140310	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140318	Thank you for that, President. I join the chorus of the many who have thanked the Prime Minister for starting by rejecting the racism and anti-Semitism that has shown its ugly face in our country. What we saw this weekend, on the anniversary of the crystal night, was that words can turn into action and into terrible acts. History has also shown this, and perhaps we should reflect on it and remember to debate it here. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister is not so much talked about, and that may be because it is a subject that can be a little difficult and still away is somewhat taboo, namely our psychiatry. I would like to talk about how life can be for some of those of us in our country who are suffering from mental illness, because I believe that a great many of them and their relatives do not feel that the welfare society is there for them. Their problems are always like the back of the line. It should otherwise be quite clear that the need is great, because we have experienced and been told a lot of concrete stories about human fates. And one of those I have read recently is about Benjamin, who told how he experienced that his wife, who suffered from depression and anxiety, was hospitalized with suicidal thoughts and was discharged against her will, even though the day before the discharge in desperation she tried to take her own life. And unfortunately, that story is not unique. There are many variations of stories about people being released, although there is clearly a need for continued hospitalization. It is people who are being rejected, even though they need continued hospitalization. And the consequences, the results, of course, are that some commit suicide, some are admitted again, some end up hurting others. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: can we be familiar with this in a welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140527	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140530	No, we can't. And it's a child of pain, I think. There are certain parts of our psychiatry that work well; there are also parts of psychiatry that do not work well enough. Now, I'm gonna say in a minute that in my eyes we've laid down too many beds, and that doesn't mean that I think people should be in bed when they're in psychiatry. But the capacity has become too small. So no, we can't be familiar with that. And I'm never gonna say that something's good if it's not good or that it's okay if it's not okay. And parts of psychiatry aren't okay. The Enhedslisten and the parties in the Finance Law negotiations have raised this question. Of course, we welcome this; it is a joint task. We presented before the elections a 10-year plan which also ensures lasting investment in psychiatry, and I think that will still be the wise thing to do; it is also in our understanding paper. But that does not change the fact that there are also some problems here and now. So, no, that is not good enough, and it is our responsibility to start getting it right as we do with the other tasks that we also have. We can't do it all at once, unfortunately. Having said that, I would also like to see us soon discuss why so many people are getting sick. Because there is mental illness that is the same, no matter what time we are in our history. But we also have to say that for example. The number of children and young people diagnosed explodes between our hands. And we are not only solving this by increasing the appropriations for psychiatry, nor do we all know that we should be medicationd or being patients. So we'll be at the same time and I've already answered the first question... have to have a talk with each other about what it is in our time that makes so many people so vulnerable. Because if we do not get to grips with it, we can continue to add money to the psychiatry, but we may not solve the real problem at least for some of those who are today coming into the psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140724	Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140725	I agree very much with that, but I am just of the firm conviction that we need to stop the bleeding here and now as one of the first. Because, of course, we need to look at preventive work • we need to look at how stress affects, especially our young generation, but it is clear that the problems continue to deteriorate when 58 per cent. of the specialists in psychiatry on at least weekly basis experience printing people who should not be discharged because there are others who are more ill. And the results are also seen in economic and social terms. It is unbearable consequences that we face. One of them is that those who are very ill and do not get help may end up committing serious crime. In other words, we have seen how three out of four criminals with a treatment sentence have not received adequate treatment in the past. It has been documented how killing and rape and assault could have been prevented. So in this way it is a snowball that rolls, and we have to stop it by making sure that when you turn to a desperate, acute situation, there is a bedroom.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140836	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140836-2	Well, there's we've been told this over a long time from patients, relatives, people employed in psychiatry. There is a professional group that has also brought this to my attention, in fact with very, very great grief and it is the police. Because it is when the psychiatry fails that some of these people will be squeezed out into situations that are so unworthy and wrong, both for themselves and for the rest of us, and those who are allowed to take on that task too, are our police, and they are not actually trained for that. And there is hardly anything worse for a police officer who has to do one job, suddenly to stand and work as the psychiatry's staggered reaction, even if he has no prerequisites for being there. So the capacity and bedrooms are crucial; also, better cooperation between the professional groups we simply have a problem with getting enough doctors for this area I think we'll have to look at. Our old common hobby, the link between abuse and psychiatry, that is, our double diagnosis, is also very important. And then I just have to say that such an initiative as the Sociolancen in Copenhagen, I think, is also one of the things that needs to be done, because there are too many of our mentally ill people who end up as patients in the somatic field, without really being their biggest challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140957	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112140959	I very much agree with what the Prime Minister says. I just have to, although I agree, with regard to the many things we can do alongside, to stick to the fact that I would like to hear the Prime Minister reply very briefly whether the Prime Minister does not agree that psychiatry is one of the areas of our welfare that has been neglected for too many years and that, even if we cannot solve everything now, we cannot wait to get started either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141031	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141033	I therefore agree that psychiatry has been neglected and that for many years there was a tendency for the physical illness to be prioritised, sometimes at the expense of the psychic. I think we must also be honest and say that taboos still play a part in this. It is simply easier to meet your colleague and say that you have broken your leg than to tell how much pain it hurts inside or how sad you are. And the whole equality of the two major health areas is not our goal yet. Nevertheless, I would also like to acknowledge that changing governments, together with the Folketing, have contributed more money to psychiatry, also through several rounds, but without solving the problems. And that is why the short answer is: yes, there are problems and I do not think we can be familiar with it. I am pleased that this is part of the financial law negotiations and I hope for a good result. A 10-year plan is still missing our common goal, I know, but having said that, we simply also have to look at why so many people are experiencing that vulnerability, because if we do not get hold of it, we will not solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141136	Thanks to Pernille Skipper. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141147	Thank you for that, President. I imagine that when the Prime Minister, in the Prime Minister's office and around the ministries, has to prepare such an hour of questioning, she is thinking: what do you think the Conservative President is asking? I'm sure he's asking a question about generational change. And yes, that's right - he does. So it's been easy. After all, it concerns both value policy and welfare policy in every way. After all, we all want a good welfare society, but that requires that we have some prosperity and prosperity provided by our companies. 850,000 Danes have in common that they work in a family-owned company. It is the farmer who runs his farm; it is the bricklayer who has his staff; it is the production company that has its many different kinds of employees. They all work for the benefit of Denmark's families and Denmark's growth. I think it is absolutely fantastic that we have self-employed businesses in Denmark • self-employed, family-owned companies that have taken a chance that has created a job and that can make Denmark a business success. After all, some people have put everything at risk for their project. Dad and Mom have sat at home and talked about whether to take loans in the house and sacrifice everything because they have believed in the idea they have had of creating that business. After all, it has not escaped anyone's attention that in the draft budget there is an increase in the tax on the change of generation, i.e. a threefold increase, although I think there is general agreement that this will have consequences for businesses. That worries me, of course, because when you take the money out of the company, it cannot be used in the production apparatus. That is why I still want to hope that this is something that will ultimately be dealt with. After all, it is about exports and jobs. Now I know that the Prime Minister does not necessarily accept advice and guidance from me, but even the trade union movement, Danish Metal and yes, 3F, has been out warning about this, so if 3F warns about a tax increase, then it must be completely mad. So I'm wondering if this might not give rise to any reflection on the part of the government, so that they're gonna drop this tax increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141355	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141356	I take good advice from the trade union movement, from Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and also from LINAK's director, a man whom I very much appreciate very much, I do so on Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Søren Pape Poulsen; it was not to say that I appreciate LINAK's director more. The whole story of Production Denmark and the family-owned companies I can sign on from one end to the next, and I also agree that this question of inheritance concerns both value policy and welfare policy, but it also, of course, concerns distribution policy. I would like to add that, paragraph 1, what we are doing, is to propose the tax rules that applied in 2015 • major change it is not • and paragraph 2 that we are of course responsive, in terms of how we do this in the best way for the sake of Danish business, because we want to keep these companies in Denmark. I am deeply grateful to them every day for the fact that production is taking place in our country and not in all sorts of other places. But there are other things we would like to do. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen himself belonged to a government that cut down on education very much. I think that was the wrong way to go, and if I put on the spectacles of business, it is a completely wrong way to go, because the whole prerequisite for producing in Denmark is that you have the world's best employees, and so we can only ensure that companies do so if we invest in young people and also in adult education. So for us, this is a priority. We want to get rid of the re-priority contribution in the field of education. It requires funding, and we propose it here. But, of course, we would very much like to discuss how we do this in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141529	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141530	Thank you. That's interesting. You have to be careful when you say you're taking it right back. One of the reasons why the previous government changed this was that it wanted to patch up a bit of the agreement made by the Thorning Government, which presented some major challenges for companies, also in relation to the basis of assessment when it comes to making the generational tax. That is why I would just like to call for zero taxation. This has been done in Sweden. Sweden, under a Social Democratic Prime Minister, has abolished the inheritance tax. I think that is an example to follow. I recognise that there are other points in which we cannot learn anything from Sweden, from the policy of foreigners, etc., but we could learn something here. I think it is quite important to remember that if you make it difficult for those who earn the money to make welfare improvements, you just put even more obstacles to yourself. There isn't a tree that the money's falling from. They must be served first. We have to agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141639	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141639-2	Yes, it must, and if there is something Christiansborg is not very good at in my view, then it is business policy. They are simply much better at doing so on the Danish companies, and they are doing it excellently. But the prerequisite for them to be able to operate as wisely, ambitiously and skilfully as they do is that the framework conditions are at the top and billion savings on training are not business-friendly. I have many reservations about the savings that have been made on training with the re-priority contribution. I think it is a wrong signal to send to our children and young people that we are saving on their territory, as has been done in recent years, but it is also quite wrong in relation to the Danish business community. Now I myself took part in the 50th anniversary celebration for Novo Zymes, Novo, NNE, in Kalundborg yesterday. Just look at what Danish employees are able to adapt to in a glaring development, including in the field of technology. It requires knowledge; it requires training; and it requires continuing training. So for us, this is first and foremost a matter of priority. If we are to ensure a stronger welfare society for the sake of Danish business, we also need to ensure a different form of taxation from that which was under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141751	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141752	So in order to do good for you, we have to make this a slave for you! Of course, it is always a discussion about how the money is to be spent. Now I hope that the Prime Minister recognises that Denmark has a strong economy, among other things. because of some reforms that have been made in the past and which, of course, allow different priorities to be set if one wishes to do so. In other words, this increase in taxation for companies is just as much an ideological increase in taxation as it is an expression of the need for money. At any rate, I have heard that, before one came into government, it has been said that there were a few very wealthy people and that it was now time for them to give something back to society. The only problem is, who's gonna get hit here? They are ordinary people and ordinary small businesses with 10, 20, 30 employees. And on top of that are three out of four private jobs, apart from the big cities, in family-owned companies. That makes the company the city's hub. It means a lot more than just being a company, although it is important enough. So in addition to that, does the Prime Minister acknowledge that this can actually help to pull our society off the wrong track and create a greater challenge in the relationship between the country and the city?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141902	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112141904	You can hear that we are both from Jutland and have grown up in Produktionsdanmark and appreciate it equally. We must continue to do so. Yes, Danish economy is strong and stronger than many others. There are a little grey clouds in the sky, which we must jointly pay attention to, trade war and brexit, to name some of them. There, of course, we also have to be obsessed with our business community, because we are still well away from exports, but that can change, and we must, of course, pay attention to that. To bring the inheritance tax up to a level as we knew it in 2015, I do not think that we do not think that is devastating for Danish business. Of course, if we meant it, we wouldn't do it. We are always happy to discuss how we do this best, but I would like to stress once again that the framework conditions for Danish business are many things. Tax plays a role and, in my view, education plays at least as important a role.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142004	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then we move on to Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142012	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister and all my other colleagues who have so clearly distanced themselves from the disgrace we have seen in relation to the Jewish burial sites. This is absolutely appropriate, and I also think it is important to stress here the importance of what the Prime Minister also said: that this is going to go deeper. Not only deeper in Denmark, but also in Norway and Sweden. We have seen that this is something that has taken place in all three Nordic countries, it is completely coordinated, the timing was quite well-chosen from their point of view and everything suggests that it is marked right-wing radical forces behind it. So I am just glad that we have so clearly opposed both racism and anti-Semitism here today. That really makes me happy and, as I said, it is absolutely appropriate. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister. We've got a green government that's set 70%. as a reduction target. It's just the way we want it in the Alternative. Where I have some questions, and that is the first question to the Prime Minister, is that we have set this very ambitious target at 70%. But how are we going to achieve that? And there I have read that the Prime Minister, among other things. I have been to the Stock Exchange saying that this must not cost jobs. There are some of my other colleagues who have said that this must not be a social disaster. Some have said that this must not affect growth. Some people are saying that this must not mean fire taxation etc. etc. And what I and the alternative are worried about is whether there is going to be such a political taboo where we say: this must not cost anything; it must not hurt anyone. And there will be our recommendation to say: is it not more political leadership to actually face up to the problems and say that yes, it will mean tough priorities? I just want to hear the PM: Well, can't this cost anything? So, do we not have to go in and say: yes, it will cost something, and if we do nothing now, it will cost much more in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142222	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142224	But it's gonna cost you something. And, of course, we are doing even more and doing a real transformation of our society. I have no doubt about that, and I also agree that if we do not do something here until 2030, what we have decided to do, then the price will only increase even further and the consequences will be even more serious. I would like us to do this in the Danish way and, in reality, use the strength of our society to resolve the climate crisis. And that is to say, we are doing it together and we are basing it on some solutions where we find each other. I think that in many ways it is strong that we have an industry that has been more green for a number of years than the Folketing. The good news is that now we get to our business community, that is, almost every time I visit a Danish company, I am struck by how far one is in the green transition compared to what we are discussing here. And our job is not to tell the ordinary Danish employee: You have to pay the climate bill by becoming unemployed. After all, we need to find a way to keep employment up and unemployment low, without allowing inequality to rise. And can that be done? No one has done so yet, but it is we who have the prerequisites for doing so, and I will also insist that it should be possible to do so. Because we have chosen, following strong pressure from other parties, to agree to a 70-percent target, and I am deeply grateful to you for that. For that is what is pushing both ourselves as a government, but it is also what is now going to put pressure on other European countries, yes, on the global stage. Hopefully, we have a climate bill in place before we go on Christmas holidays. There, too, we have a financial agreement in place, and then we have to get on with the climate action plan, and that is where we will have to make concrete priorities. But, for example, the government's proposal for increased taxes on plastic is an example in which we ask some people to pay something more for something that they could really do without.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142423	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142424	I fully agree with the Prime Minister's success criteria and aspirations. But when I hear that my colleagues from the various parties have all these reservations... this must not cost anything, it must not hit here, it must not hit a wrong hit, it must not be taxed there... I am just worried that we are setting too many stumbling threads for the important debate we are about to start. And I'm not the only one who says that. After all, we hear from experts: be careful not to make too many demands that need to be met in order to achieve our goal. However, something that I am so pleased about is that we have joined the Finance Act negotiations and thank both the good people sitting here in front of me for that. At least we all agree there that we need to find some more money. After all, there are some exciting discussions about creating a new, large climate fund and how we get really significant money resources into that fund. Well, there we are. the proposal on whether green government bonds could be discussed. Is this a discussion that the Prime Minister would like to enter?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142541	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142543	Yes, of course I think it's exciting, because I'm also looking for funding. Because we are not going to be able to do everything we want in the green area if we just do things as usual. In the opening debate, I have also, in fact, endorsed the fact that, although I think that we should vote for the good old Social Democrats, there are also new parties that are helping to create some dynamism, and this also applies to the climate agenda. There is reason to sign for that, I think, also in relation to, among others. The alternative. So we cannot just do things as usual, and neither can we with regard to funding. I know that the Ministry of Finance, together with the National Bank, is investigating this issue of green government bonds and that Holland has done so. Is that a way to go? Yes, I certainly do not reject it. On the whole, you will not see that I reject a lot in the green area. I will constantly fight for structural solutions to be found. But I'm very responsive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142649	Sir. Uffe Elbæk for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142650	I am very pleased to hear that, and the Prime Minister also mentions the good experiences from the Netherlands, where these 45 billion were raised. kr. In one day, and the interesting thing was that it was some Danish pension funds that actually included. I bought it. So there's a willingness to buy out there, right? The last question concerns what we see in Hong Kong over these weeks and months and where we had the Foreign Minister in consultation ten days ago and we there had a very good discussion with him. There were four parties who had invited us to this consultation and, of course, we also heard about the government's attitude towards getting the European Union on the ground; a strong European flag. But another thing that also happened during that consultation was that there was a discussion about whether one could imagine that the Nordic countries or Denmark took a mediation role, so that, just as we saw with Norway in the conflict between Palestine and Israel, one went in and said that the conflict has simply gone so high that there is a third party who has to come in and try to facilitate a conversation. As I said, this was a very exciting discussion in committee and I would like to hear what the Prime Minister is thinking there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142801	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142803	I am thinking first of all of the obvious and obvious seriousness of the situation, and the right to demonstrate is one of the most fundamental human rights. After all, it is both a common position on the Danish side, but also on the European side, that there must be respect for fundamental rights. Can I just see Denmark in a broker's role? No, I do not think I can do that immediately, but fortunately we have other tools, common positions and declarations on the part of the European Union, and we are, of course, making our position known when it comes to fundamental human rights, and it does not matter where it is in the world. As much as I would like to support the work on human rights, but whether or not we really think we have the prerequisites for entering a mediator's role here, I cannot immediately see.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142857	Thanks to Uffe Elbæk. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112142909	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to report among all those who have stood here today and have thanked the Prime Minister for addressing the anti-Semitic events that took place this weekend. It is not so often that I agree with the Radical Left and Morten Østergaard, but in this case I would say that it also ran me cold down my back. I know one of the families who got such a star on their mailbox, and I really hope that this is something you take hold of, not just letting this be something you say on a day like today, but that you actually get to the bottom of how we solve this. It is also true, as has been said, that it unfortunately exists both on the extreme right, on the extreme left and in the extreme Muslim environments. You have to acknowledge this if you're going to solve these problems. But that has nothing to do with my question; it was just a brief acknowledgement. My question is that since February 2018 the Prime Minister has said several times that all foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark must When the law catalogue came last month, I could not see the bill that will ensure that foreigners work instead of being on public support, and I am rather sorry about that. After all, the problems will not be reduced over time, and they will obviously not disappear by themselves. We know that non-western immigrants and descendants cost the Danish treasury more than 30 billion. kr. a year, and we also received figures earlier this week that over 3,100 non-western immigrants have been living on cash benefits for more than 10 years. So my question is quite simple: when is the bill that all foreigners with a residence permit in the country should work 37 hours a week?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143102	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143104	It was a good question of a very good subject and something that is absolutely crucial. We were actually discussing this earlier today in the government, so we are working on it and how we can shape it here in a way, and I am very, very pleased that it is being brought up today, because it also gives me some hope that we can get a majority when we are ready to put this into practice. After all, it is a disaster, I have to say that so many people have come to our country who have not worked here while they have been here. It is a problem in itself, I think, that you go to another country and do not think that you should do everything you can to contribute to Denmark, since that is the country you are in, and not everyone has had that approach. We owe it to say that there are plenty of people with foreign backgrounds who work and are in employment for that but there are too many who are not. I think we have to acknowledge that I also know that the questioner is somewhat critical of what is going on in the country's job centres that the work that has been done has simply not been the right one, that it has not been good enough and that it has been too easy to escape from it, that our entire labour market policy is based on: right and duty. That is why we need to tighten up, and it is mine, it is the position of the Social Democratic Party, and it is the position of the government that it should be the case that, for example, we should be able to do so. the group of women with a non-Western background who are now outside the labour market must work to receive their benefit at all. When we are ready to put something forward, we put it forward, and we are also very, very happy to discuss it with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143242	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143243	Thank you. I have to be careful that I don't use this as a question, but I have to get used to asking questions in here that are hardly ever answered. I did not get an answer as to when we could expect it to be put forward here, but I will not use my second question to try to get the same answer again. So I would just like to say that in order to help the government on the way, New Citizens will make a proposal here in the Folketing which will limit the possibility of foreigners receiving public support to a maximum of 3 months after they have obtained a residence permit. I also like to be specific, so I would ask the Prime Minister to explain the following: the government has chosen to resume the reception of quota refugees as early as this year, and not to solve the other problems. Will the Prime Minister of this group, who will come here relatively soon, keep his promise to the Danes that new arrivals of foreigners should
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143347	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143349	We have said that because of the low number of asylum seekers and it also seems to be applicable in the calendar year we are in now there is room to receive a small group of quota refugees this year, and we are working on that. I do not wish to deny that we are going to have a particular focus on children in this context, and it can be a little difficult to reconcile this fundamental value of employment. But it will be natural that it is not certain that it is only children to put this perspective both in relation to quota refugees, but also in relation to other people who come here and that we get it done quickly. This area is simply not one on which we will disagree, in other words in relation to employment. There is a bit of impatience for the government to implement its policy, and I actually welcome that, because it is always nice when there are others who want to be involved in some of the things we want to do. So we're gonna hurry back to the garage, even in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143452	Mrs Pernille Vermund to the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143454	Now that I have one last question, can I just ask the Prime Minister to tell you quite so in Danish: will the quota refugees, who are adults, who should be able to take responsibility for their own lives, be required to work 37 hours a week in order to be able to receive public support in Denmark? yes or no? I do not know how to ask the question for an answer, but that could be an option. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143521	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143524	You have to ask the questions you want, and I have to answer them as well as I possibly can. I find it difficult to see that you can have two types of legislation for people who are in a comparable life situation, and that is why we should aim to have one legislation that applies to people coming from outside, namely that they have to work to be able to receive a benefit at all. It's a job that goes on inside the government. When we are ready to put it forward, I promise we will hurry to put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143549	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. The question is over. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143600	Thank you. I would like to talk a little about the challenge we are facing in getting young graduates to take the work they can now get. For although we are in a situation where, as you know, employment is booming and unemployment is falling for virtually all groups of society, unemployment for graduates remains at the same high level. When you look at academics who have completed their studies within one year, the unemployment rate is 30 per cent, and it is one out of every four recipients of unemployment benefit who are graduates. It is not because it is a large or overwhelming community group, and it is not a resourceless community group either. When you hear these numbers, you're thinking that this must be a hard-pressed resource-weak community group, but it's actually the opposite. Well, it's the most resourceful people who have the hardest time taking a job. It is often about attitude and incentives that too many people see the benefit system as an opportunity where you can just look at the time and hope that a dream job falls into the hat, and that it is as fun and exciting and creative and self-realising as the study that you have once put yourself through. I do not think I will tire the Prime Minister with the stories that have been in the media in recent days, but it is some classics that there are some who are too fine to take a job in Netto or too fine to move outside Copenhagen. As we see it, the challenge is, of course, that students experience a public income of about DKr 6,000, and when they are finished with their studies and become unemployed, yes, then it rises to DKr 13,000. a month because they have to be insured against losing a job they've never had. It is an unfortunate system, we think, and we cannot see the reasonableness of allowing the creative class systematically to exploit the working people and saying that it is the truck driver and brewery worker Arne who should ensure that people who have read sustainable cultural heritage management should receive graduation allowance. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: what will the government do to bring unemployed graduates into jobs, and is one willing to look at the graduating rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143815	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143817	I feel quite basically that if there is a job at all, you have to take it instead of going unemployed, and I have no understanding of any of the examples I hear about where you say you would rather go unemployed for x months to get the dream job than to support yourself. I just can't understand the whole, basic way of thinking. So there are some challenges here. I understand that the Minister for Employment will look again at the rules. Now we have discussed many things today. This is, in my view, value policy. You live in a welfare society like ours, where other people go to work so that you can take an education, and when you're finished with that education, you'd like to have a job plan drawn up while you're studying, and if there's not exactly the job you want, then you'd have to wake up in the morning and think: OK, how do I find another job, so that I don't put society at risk and support myself? If that culture does not permeate everyone, then we are more than willing to take that discussion again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143925	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112143927	That's not true. The question is whether you are willing to ensure a lower graduation rate so that they do not receive DKr 13,000. on graduation allowance, but for example only DKK 8,000. I'm a little distracted about what the answer to that question was. I understand that you might be doing this classic ostrich solution, sticking your head in the ground and saying that then the job centres need to be better at pointing out jobs and ensuring that the rules of availability are complied with. But I find it hard to see what it is that exactly this government should be the first in 10 years to put pressure on the job centres to succeed in bringing unemployed academics into jobs. I'd like to give you the benefit of the doubt, and the good news is that Coop has been out saying today that they can hire these almost 7,000 academics during the next year. If it's just about the job centres getting better at pointing out jobs, when does the Prime Minister expect these 7,000 unemployed academics to be employed at Coop or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144018	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144020	Now it's probably a little difficult for me to stand and lay down a concrete job plan for each unemployed person. After all, the daily allowance rate is a recurring discussion between the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democratic Party, and I know that the party has a desire to go even further on the ordinary daily allowance rules as well. It's not safe for us to find each other there. But there is also something in this which is simply about justice and duty. Well, there is, because I am in favour of having proper benefits in this country that you can live on if you are hit by unemployment, but I am at least as strongly in favour of right and duty, and that is the way we have built our labour market. You just have to remember that, although we have high benefits internationally, the vast majority of people are going to work in this country, and it is not because it is the benefits that drive them. It is quite simply because there are a lot of people who wake up in the morning and think: I have to go to work. That is the thinking we must support. There is something that suggests that not all graduates think like much about society in the morning as they think about themselves, and we must have done something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144127	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144128	After all, we are in complete agreement on all the fundamentals and the generals, and I think the Prime Minister knows that too. I just think it is important that the external incentives fit the internal value compass that we have in society. And there's the limit to the pervert that you can walk from getting $6,000. to get 13,000 kroner. in public income because you have to be insured against losing a job you've never had. And that is where I think it is natural for some people to respond to those incentives, even if we have slogans of right and duty, and there may also have to be careful that we do not end up with a society in which we refuse to change the level of benefits, but instead say that the whip must be swinged harder so that it becomes the state of competition that takes over instead of common sense. I have a third and final question to ask, which is why I want to address what the Prime Minister mentioned earlier, namely the one with love for Production Denmark or the specific Denmark, as I usually call it and the desire for more money to be spent on education. Some of the educations with the highest degree of gratitude are educations such as spatial designs and society, sustainable cultural heritage management, global area studies and European ethnology. I just have to be with the government's ambition that these studies should have more money from the specific Denmark, i.e. from Produktionsdanmark, and how does it benefit Production Denmark that taxes have to be raised to give more money to this type of burgeoning study?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144245	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144247	In fact, there were studies there that I had not heard of in the past, and I would say that from the government's point of view, of course, our very clear position is that the dimensioning of education is a really, really important tool in education policy. We must not train people to areas where there is no employment, and that is why we must keep an eye on whether we are moving the training money in the right direction. May I just say, on top of that, that insisting on the right and the duty is not to swing the whip. In my view, to insist on the right and duty is to be faithful to the foundation on which Denmark is built. It permeates our entire labour market, and that is what makes us have such a high employment rate, so high an employment rate and, by the way, low unemployment, and that very, very many people day and night wake up and think: I must of course go to work, I must support myself and my family; I must do what I can to bring this society forward. It's not swinging the whip. It's in my eyes to be true to one of the absolutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144351	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144402	Today there are the following reviews: Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 30 (Proposal for a resolution on border controls between Denmark and Sweden). Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF) and Morten Messerschmidt (DF): Request no. F 19 (to promote rural development). Peter Skaarup (DF), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL) and Naser Khader (KF): Request no. F 20 (More insight into public administration). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144435	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144455	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144518	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? We're on L 23, and that's for L 23, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen wants to speak? There is no one else who wishes to speak, and that is why the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144538	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144603	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144613	After all, this is a matter in which an industry is charged some extra costs, and it is some extra costs which are likely to be paid to consumers a DKK 2 000. The answer from the Ministry was that you had to put the cut at DKK 1,950, because that was the cost, because you spend approx. 4 hours per day Case. I wondered, and I wondered, and that's why I've been out investigating the case in the field. When you go to a car dealership, it takes approx. 15 or 20 minutes; then they have a number on this. I have also asked the leading exporting companies in this area how long they take. Well, a standard case takes about 20 minutes, and a complicated case could take maybe one hour or two. Yes, they would even like to offer an offer to the state that if you still want to give 400 kroner. They will be responsible for the whole operation, i.e. a quarter of what else it costs. So I decided to call the DMV, too. They're the ones who have to handle this, so it's gotta take four hours, but that's not the answer I got when I contacted the DMV. There they think that there might well be a few cases that could be extremely complicated, so it would take 4 hours, but generally it might take them • they might have a list which they can take from 5-10 minutes, and it could also sometimes take 1-2 hours, which was his bid, if he had to set an average time for how long it took, i.e. half of what it says here. So I was wondering how you got to this number, i.e. it's DKK 1,950, when even the DMV, who has to calculate this, says that it only takes half the time and only in general cases can take 4 hours or more. That's why I'd like us to dive deeper into it. Because it is a requirement that the costs involved in this must be equal to what it actually costs and must not just be a way to upholstery the Treasury. So I would like to have a closer look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144815	Thank you. Does anyone else wish to speak on this matter? That does not seem to be the case, so the debate is closed and we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144824	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? That is not the case, so they are adopted. I then propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144907	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Malte Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112144918	Thank you very much. We have here a proper joint proposal with various amendments to financial legislation. There are a total of 24 sub-items. First of all, I note that there are some very good tactics in the legislative proposal to improve consumer protection. For example, housing loan providers are required to draw up uniform key figures documents so that different loans from different providers can be compared as consumers. Those of us who have tried to raise a mortgage know which jungle it may be to see through the composition of the costs of various loans, both now and in the future, and with different rates of contributions and setting-up fees, and what might follow. We also know that investment in housing is the most important investment in the lives of most people, and the choice of housing loans is very important for the daily economy. In this way, we are giving consumers much better opportunities to make that choice on an enlightened basis. Another sub-item of the big package is that it addresses unfair prices for direct debit solutions such as payment service. The Competition and Consumer Authority will have the tools to intervene if prices are not as if there were competition in this area. It also helps to ensure that the prices of these solutions cannot just run out of control. These are measures that will improve conditions for Danish consumers, and we believe that this is basically a good thing. In addition, there are elements in the draft law that ease some burdens for business. And here I think it is worth noting that the bill allows financial companies to sign annual reports electronically. This helps to make it easier to operate and we can see that it is being welcomed in the consultation responses. All in all, I think that the draft law contains many good elements, and since the answers to the hearings do not give rise to any greater concern, the Social Democrats can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112145115	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur, Mr Vredeling. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112145123	Thank you. It is true that there are a large number of elements in this draft law which pick up agreements both under the previous government and under the current government. The first element that has come last is the issue of direct debit solutions, also known as payment services, which, of course, many of us use daily or at least sometimes monthly. We reached a broad political agreement on this in September, in which we gave the competition authorities a better opportunity to analyse the market and also, if there is abuse of a dominant position, to intervene against it. In the Left, we basically believe that it is a good idea for us to have effective and strong competition authorities, which is why we are part of the agreement. In addition, to take one of the other large amounts, we will hopefully get, and I actually believe that we should now be fully in line, ensuring that the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies is changed, so that building damage insurance is covered, in the event that their insurance company has gone bankrupt by 1 January 2019. We have made a number of clean-up heats here, where some homeowners have got into trouble in connection with the bankruptcy of non-life insurance companies, but I think this must be the last thing, because today's requirement is that all insurance companies should now be linked to the Guarantee Fund and that is the last time we get this clean-up done. But that means that the homeowners who were at risk of losing their insurance are now being picked up and that makes a great deal of sense. As I said, there are a great many elements in the proposal. The Socialist rapporteur also referred to the element that housing loan providers will now be obliged to hand over a standardised key figures document to consumers when they receive a mortgage offer. It aims to make it more transparent and thus to strengthen consumer protection when making a mortgage. The draft law ensures a greater ban on directors of investment firms having a place on the board of directors or management or managing the operation of the companies with which significant cooperation agreements have been concluded. That ban is now being done absolutely and that means removing any doubts in this area, in order to avoid conflicts of interest to the detriment of consumers as well. It is also proposed that the FSA be extended to supervise financial institutions, ensuring that supervision can carry out its tasks effectively and that market players act properly. There are also amended rules for companies authorised to issue e-money or provide payment services. Like so many others in the financial sector, they must also have a whistleblower scheme that allows employees who witness problematic conditions to tip the authorities without risk of their work and thus ensure that any problems are brought to light. So these are a large number of different initiatives which we basically think are quite reasonable. We can have a long discussion about whether the basis for decision we had when we made the agreement in September was now also fully up to date in relation to the competitive situation in the direct debit market. We would have liked them to have been more up-to-date, so we had a sharper look at what the situation really was at the moment. But it is then provided with the analysis now provided for, so that we can ensure that we have decisions which, of course, reflect the specific situation of competition. Because it is important that we ensure that there is strong competition, but it also requires, of course, that we have a basic environment where it is attractive to set up new businesses and develop new products and create innovation. It is certainly our ambition that this basic structure should, of course, be present, but of course we always support the fact that the competition authorities are powerful and can intervene if there are problems in the market, and that is basically what we are ensuring with the amendment of the law here. So there is agreement from the Left to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112145559	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112145614	I would therefore like to acknowledge that the Minister has chosen to table a complex draft law with all the good things from the sea, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen appointed it to be. Perhaps one might be led to believe that this is due to the fact that the Minister has a past as a Fisheries rapporteur. What one might perhaps wonder about, if one is finally to find the critical glasses in relation to the law-making process, is, of course, that in this case too we find that in the context of these collective laws, which are put forward by various ministers, the relatively clever approach is chosen and that the purpose of the bill is to increase consumer protection and consumer confidence in Denmark. And when it comes down to it from the beginning, one should as a party be a dungeon if one went in clinch with the minister about whether this is something that is so really good for consumer protection in Denmark, or whether it is something that contains a lot of other small things that basically do not move anything purely consumer law, but which may just sound a little beautiful. Some of the things that lie in this bill are contract-based, and other elements are something that comes directly from the government and that has not been dealt with in various conciliation forums here at Christiansborg in the Danish Parliament. Here too, I would like to be allowed to criticise the way in which agreements and agreements are dealt with, because things may well get a little mixed up when something which is negotiated or negotiated is put into a law committee, which also includes other elements which are not, and that is that as politicians, as laymen, we should start reading the law ourselves to see what we have actually agreed to and what we have not agreed to in advance. So, of course, I also hope that the Minister will not make use of this kind of cooked-up right to stay within the food area because that's how it can be experienced when you mix a lot of different things together. The Danish People's Party welcomes the fact that the bill ensures that in relation to these debit products there will be better consumer protection. This is something that several people have asked for, and it is also one of the things that is included in the draft law, so, of course, the explanatory statement is quite reasonable in this case too. The second part, which I would like to reflect on a little, is in connection with these building damage insurance. It is true that several years ago we saw that Gable Insurance, which I think was Liechtenstein-based or something, had been so reckless to sell a lot of change of ownership building damage insurance in Denmark, funny enough at a price that was approx. 40-50 percent under the price of all their competitors. Many people always choose the cheapest, but perhaps you shouldn't have, because this meant that they suddenly had a worthless building damage insurance and that the Danish part of the company, called Houseowners' Insurance, had gone bankrupt. It was an absurd situation, and it did of course also that Insurance & Pension as an industry organisation was out to say: We actually feel that, although we are not obliged to do so, we would like to help give a hand to the thousands of Danish affected homeowners who have been lost and misled in relation to these quite bad insurance cover. So we made an agreement broadly based here in the Danish Parliament, and it was good that it could then apply from 1 January 2019. But who could then know that in December 2018 another bankrupt resident, Qudos Insurance, went bankrupt a few days before the turn of the year. Then again thousands of homeowners had taken out insurance but were suddenly not covered because they were worthless. With this bill that we are now discussing, we will also get the challenge solved in relation to the many thousands of homeowners who will have the opportunity to re-sign to another company and also get back part of the financial compensation. However, there are a number of costs that are being deducted, and this must be accepted, as it were. In the Danish People's Party we would also like to welcome the fact that it says in the bill that you get better conditions to see through your offers on mortgage products. In fact, it is not so bad even for us to secure a standardised key figures document in relation to what, hopefully, a relatively secure buyer or investor is considering investing in so that they know what they have of future loan commitments. So, overall, the proposal contains a large number of other initiatives that I cannot go into, but these are very, very minor changes in a long, wide range of different laws. To return to my starting point, it is consumer law in the right direction, and that is why the Danish People's Party can of course support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112150143	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112150157	On behalf of our rapporteur, I should like to say that the Danes must be able to count on them not to pay unreasonable prices. The examples we have seen where charities have paid an overpriced price for a commodity and thus have not been able to spend the money on their charitable work are, of course, not acceptable. Nor is it acceptable if ordinary Danes pay an unfair overpriced price for a product because there is no competition on the market. We must ensure that Danes are not subject to unreasonable charges on their fixed transactions. This does not mean, of course, that we want private companies to give away their products free of charge or that we want to hamper the development of the sector, but that means that we will give the FSA a proper opportunity to investigate it. Ideally, there was competition on the market, and the FSA must now have the opportunity to investigate when it comes to payment services. That is common sense, which we Radicals naturally support. Our business rapporteur, Katrine Robsøe, looks forward to the committee's work on both this part of the bill and the remaining parts and will be better able to answer any questions than I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112150309	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112150322	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. It is, after all, a very comprehensive proposal which contains many good things. This applies to the strengthening of intervention mechanisms against unfair charges. This applies to direct debit solutions. This applies to the implementation of a political agreement on the bankrupt Qudos Insurance. This also applies to the obligation for residential loan providers to provide standardised key figures, which will simply make it easier, as a consumer, to keep them against each other and compare the various offers. And I could mention several good things, all of which are good proposals that we can support, and I would also like to commend the cooperation on the Nets agreement. But the corner of the law where I get worried at least, which is also part of what we are dealing with today is the part that deals with the confidentiality of persons who contribute to activities under the Danish Export Credit Act. I'm gonna be thinking about the fact that I don't know if you remember the case pending. EKF is involved in this. It started back in 2013 when EKF, FLSmidth and PensionDanmark joined forces to build a copper mine in Armenia. With EKF Danmarks Eksportkredit and PensionDanmark in the back, the Armenian mining company Valex was able to buy equipment from FLSmidth worth 350 million. kr. The problem is that the mine has had enormous consequences for the surrounding society and for the environment. The case of EKF and Armenia and its consequences are extensively documented by investigative journalist Jens Malling in a series of articles in several follow-up articles in the magazine Repression, and I quote something from the article: "Local small farmers have been deprived of their land to give way to the mine and have not been properly compensated according to their lawyer. Their cases are now waiting for decisions by the European Court of Human Rights. The copper from the Danish mining project is processed in a nearby melting plant under conditions that experts call "horrible" and contrary to international guidelines. Both before, during and after the construction of the mine, Armenian civil society protested against the project. Nevertheless, the Danish companies and the Danish state decided to implement it. Not long after the magazine documented the serious human rights violations and extensive damage to our environment, EKF finally chose to stop financing the disputed mine in Armenia, and since then EKF has sought access to EKF's correspondence with FLSmidth and PensionDanmark, but EKF will not give it to them. For almost a year, EKF has been trying to keep documents about environmental damage in Armenia hidden from the public. The Environmental and Food Complaints Board was therefore involved, and on 2 July this year EKF repealed its decision to cover up the information, stating that EKF is subject to the Environmental Information Act, but EKF will still not publish the documents. Søren Stenderup Jensen, one of Denmark's leading lawyers in business law and public law, has been employed to ensure that EKF's correspondence with FLSmidth and PensionDanmark on the environmental damage in Armenia never comes to public knowledge. EKF's lawyer refers to sensitive information of importance to the economic and competition environment of companies. In other words, we are faced with a situation in which we see competition considerations undermining the interests of the environment and undermining the public's right to know what their tax dollars are being spent on. In this light, I find it strikingly convenient for EKF that the government wants to strengthen the confidentiality of EKF and their collaborators. And I would like to know whether this proposal also means that EKF should not suddenly be exempted from the Environmental Information Act. EKF is in many ways a very green enterprise, but in view of the business adventure in Armenia, there is every reason to strengthen EKF's climate profile and create more transparency. There is simply a need for more and hardly less transparency in the project financing of the Export Credit Fund, and there should be continuous monitoring of the social and environmental consequences of the projects. In fact, we already see this implemented in export credits from several other OECD countries, but this is not the case in EKF. The present draft law seems to be working against this at this point, and so I cannot yet say whether we can support the proposal insofar as it makes the Export Credit Fund less transparent than it is today. At any rate, it is crucial for us that competition considerations should not, of course, undermine environmental considerations, as they did in the example of the destruction in Armenia. Then I should like to welcome the SF and say that they support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112150825	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112150836	Thank you for the floor. L 46 is, in fact, such a bag of mixed candy, each of which is intended to increase consumer safety in the financial field and which is directly in line with the work of the previous government and the recent agreement to strengthen the scope for intervention against charges for payment service solutions. One of the bolsjerne is about securing customers who have taken out building damage insurance in a company that may go bankrupt. It makes really good sense. Another Bolshey is about housing loan providers having to have a key figures document when offering mortgage loans. This means that the loan decision can be taken on a fully informed basis. A third Bolshee carries out an obligation for companies with limited authorisation to issue e-money or to provide payment services to have a whistleblower scheme if the company has more than five employees. A fourth Bolsje will make it possible to sign annual reports using digital signature, and financial companies will have to submit their annual reports and half-yearly reports digitally directly to the Danish Business Authority. Yay, I guess. Finally, it was also about time that we entered the digital age here too. The fifth Bolshje enables minority shareholders to be redeemed in the future in accordance with a new and more effective procedure. It will be very good to have a more flexible and up-to-date way of dealing with the redemption of minority shareholders. Finally, there is the sixth Bolshey, which certainly has created the most thuh hello. This is, of course, the part of the bill that is about giving the Competition and Consumer Authority the opportunity to intervene if the fees for direct debit products, i.e. payment service products, are considered to be unfairly high. This is a rapidly developing market, but unfortunately there are still not many suppliers and there is therefore a risk of a monopoly. The Competition and Consumer Authority would normally just take care of that, but right here it's a little more complicated than that. That's why Conservatives have been supporting the drafting of this new law. This means that the authorities can look at the entire value chain. Let me just stress that you can have an opinion on bonus programmes and half-baked communication, but that is not prohibited after all. Nor is it having a product that everyone does not want to do without. That's the way it is. On the other hand, it is prohibited to exploit any monopoly status. Once the bill has been adopted, the authorities will have to spend at least six months analysing the market, and then we will have to see if there is a monopoly and whether the prices are completely in the fence. There's a lot of prices running away. Well, my girlfriend came, for example. out of an ice cream store and completely in shock. More than 100 kroner. per liters were too hard for him anyway, he thought. But it is not for politicians to decide whether the ice cream or the payment service have the right price, whatever it is. It is, of course, up to companies and the market itself to regulate it. Only when there is a monopoly will companies have to be careful. That is quite fair to the Conservative People's Party. What remains now is to ensure that the forthcoming investigation is thorough, that it becomes impartial and that it is based on the current technological, regulatory and actor dynamics of the market for bill payments. In the same context, I would also like to point out that the additional resource that we are now throwing into the Competition and Consumer Authority should also ensure that the Board will generally increase its efforts against possible monopoly, just so that you do not just look at the highly profiled cases. This law must come into force at the turn of the year, and there has been some haste along the way, especially about this payment service part; there has been a little too short a consultation period, and I certainly hope that will not become a habit. Hastværk is a piece of cargo, even in spite of the Minister's political impatience. That is understandable, but it must not affect democratic processes. Finally, there is no doubt that the Conservative People's Party naturally wants to strengthen transparency, competition and good conduct, and that is why we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112151218	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112151228	Our rapporteur, sir. Uffe Elbæk is in negotiations on financial legislation, and I have therefore been given the task of announcing that the alternative is for the proposal, which is a collection of many amendments designed to increase consumer safety. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112151251	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we go on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112151316	L 46 contains a number of changes to financial legislation, and some parts, including redemption of minority shareholders, digital signatures on annual reports, changes to the procedure for reporting annual and half-yearly reports, and repealing the requirement to submit subsidiary annual reports to the FSA, are, as has already been said, a simplification and thus an improvement in the current situation. If these proposals had been left alone, New Citizens would very much have supported them, but they are not standing alone. The part of the proposal which deals with further regulation and burdens on the financial sector is at best a piece of crap and, at worst, a cunning populism that hits directly into the jante law of envy that feeds on our society and spreads like a wildfire if civil politicians do not keep their heads cold and find the courage and will to stop. The financial sector is essential for us in Denmark to have secure, easy and stable access to funding. In recent years, however, ordinary banks, financial institutions and companies that supply debit products have been beaten out as evil capitalists, who are only out to cheat and deceive, and which we Danes must therefore be protected from by state power and its minions. The tale will not contribute to or add votes. In concrete terms, this bill means that the Competition and Consumer Authority must be given the opportunity to intervene if the fees for direct debit products are considered to be unduly high. In other words, a law will be introduced which gives a state administration the right to dictate the prices of a product in a market which is in extreme development worldwide these years and where new competitors and opportunities constantly emerge for the benefit and benefit of citizens in general. It does not take the big joint guard exam to understand what political regulation and state interference here will have consequences for the Danes. And if you do not have the ability to understand it, you can read the part of the consultation answers that are almost unequivocally negative or at least extremely skeptical. The price for this will be paid by the Danes, because it will weaken innovation in payment solutions at home, and this will hamper competition from new players in the Danish market. New citizens are a bourgeois party. We are opposed to socialist measures which, with the state as the great protector, give politicians the power to weaken our society and thus the opportunities of citizens with over-regulation of the market. And although there are good tactics in terms of simplification and deregulation in individual parts of the bill, the overall proposal draws towards more socialism, more control for the state and less freedom for the Danish population. That is why new citizens are voting against L 46.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112151635	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112151644	Thank you. Nor can we support the bill, and there are several reasons for this. I would like to highlight three of them, but on the whole we think that this intervention is a little sloppy and hasty and perhaps not so well thought out. But the first of the three main reasons why we are against this is that this is not on a sufficient basis of knowledge, but on an old basis of knowledge. Thus, it has been said that there is no development in the market for debit solutions, and this has been done on the basis of a 2014 report that has figures from 2009 to 2012. But in the last five years alone, there has been a rapid development in this market, and we know that payment services today account for less than 25%. of the bills paid in Denmark. And you would also know that if you had done a prior analysis, been more thorough and had not been so busy rushing this through. So the mere fact that a thorough market analysis is not being carried out before, as it were, intervention by a monopoly regulation is a matter of concern to us. Secondly, we fear that this intervention can help to curb future innovation and competition in fintech or finetech, or how to say it according to temperament. This is where I want, among other things. refer to a report by the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority itself ironically, it is from 2014 on warning against such intervention as this; firstly, because it believes that it can reduce innovation and limit the supply of new and alternative products; secondly, because it believes that it reduces the incentive to streamline and improve quality; and thirdly, because it believes that it contributes to maintaining the existing market structure. These were the arguments put forward by the Ministry five years ago, and now we are going against those arguments without having carried out a new and thorough analysis. Thirdly, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, this legislation sends a rather awkward signal to foreign companies wishing to invest in Denmark. After all, Denmark is a small and open economy, and our prosperity depends on us being able to import and export and make investments abroad, just as foreign companies can come to Denmark and invest here. And Mastercard has bought part of the Netsgroup earlier this year, including Payment Services, and now Mastercard, with the Minister's wish to legislate on Payment Services, can find that just a few months after such an investment takes place, the government creates uncertainty about the basic framework conditions for the company's investment in Denmark. And it sends a signal abroad that Denmark does not have a stable business climate. And that's a third reason why this bill is a little troubling. Should I highlight a fourth reason, perhaps there is also something ironic about the concern that Nets and Payment Services will be given a monopoly status, and that it will then be possible to regulate prices down so that it becomes even more difficult to outperform Nets. But apparently that logic can prevail on Slotsholmen, and we must live with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112151954	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we shall give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152001	Thank you for that, and thank you also for the comments made to colleagues in the Folketing and also for the predominantly positive reception of the bill. It is true that you almost feel set aside for such a little Friday atmosphere, when we are both about everything good from the sea and sweets and for expensive ice and slogans that roll, and everything is good and the mood is high. However, this is the draft law that makes a number of changes to financial legislation, as has sometimes been said, aimed at strengthening consumer protection. Fortunately, the consultation has shown that there is broad support for the draft law in general. One of the essential elements of the bill is a ban on unfair prices and margins for direct debit solutions. With the bill we are following up on the political agreement we made in September of this year on strengthening the scope for intervention against fees, etc. on payment service solutions. I would also like to take this opportunity here today to sign for the good cooperation that was in the negotiations where we could find each other to do this very broadly. It is very important that no Dane, either as a consumer or as a company, should experience unfair conditions when paying for goods or services. Specifically, the Competition and Consumer Authority will in future be able to intervene if the fees for direct debiting, such as: In the case of payment services, it is considered that they are unduly high and exceed what they would be if there was an active competition in this area. This competition has been affected sometimes, and I just feel like emphasising that it is precisely part of the political agreement of September that we meet in the circle of agreements, follow competition on the market and take political discussions on how exactly that relationship develops. Overall, this initiative is for the benefit of both consumers and businesses, but also for the charities, which were highlighted during the debate. Furthermore, we implement the agreement on the management of customers in Qudos Insurance A/S with change of ownership and building damage insurance. The draft law extends, as the rapporteur of the Left also pointed out, the coverage period of the Guarantee Fund for consumers who are or may be affected by the bankruptcy of Qudos Insurance A/S, thus ensuring that all consumers can obtain coverage in the Guarantee Fund for a building damage that may arise in the Policensed remaining coverage period if the developer has not taken out a compensation insurance for the remaining coverage period and if the developer has gone or goes bankrupt. In addition, we want to make it easier for consumers to get back to a number of speeches about a mortgage or mortgage-like loan offer. Studies have been carried out by the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority, which shows that in practice it is difficult for consumers today to understand the content of the much information we receive when we have to borrow housing loans. With this bill we are now dealing with, residential loan providers are therefore obliged to make a standardised key figures bill.That's the kind of language that it's a little a shame to have crept into it here, because it's such a good initiative that it should be more easily understood so that you get the most important figures from the loan papers drawn in front of you and make it possible to compare loans across loan providers. This will make it easier for a consumer to compare loans from different providers and thus easier to identify the loan that the consumer considers to be the best and the cheapest. In addition, the draft law proposes a number of measures, including: The Conservative rapporteur also referred to removing administrative burdens on companies which actually make it easier to operate in Denmark. It will be among other things. proposed to change a number of laws so that annual reports can be signed with a digital signature; this makes it easier, and it can be submitted digitally directly to the Danish Business Authority also something that should make it easier. So, yes, there are many mixed candy, all good from the sea, and what else it has been called, in one piece of law. I also take note of the comment made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in particular on the question of when to collect things and when to divide them up. There is, of course, a perfectly legitimate consideration on this issue. Conversely, it is also necessary to assess, in relation to the second scales, how often and with what relatively limited proposals you want to disturb colleagues here in the Things. However, I think it is positive, and I also think it is good that the views of the parties on the legislative proposal are positive, and on that basis I look forward to good committee reading and, of course, are also available there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152547	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152551	Thank you for the floor. In my rapporteur's speech, I argued that the answers to the hearings, particularly on this point concerning direct debits, are relatively negative. It is a legislative proposal, as has also been mentioned here, which confuses a lot of things, but specifically regarding the direct debit, when you have commented on the basis of the amendment of the law, you are negative in four of the five consultation answers listed here in the Ministry's material, while in one you are neutral. In relation to the impact of the change in the law on market conditions, i.e. whether this would distort competition or have an impact on the ability of the Danes to obtain new products and new opportunities, there is a neutral hearing answer, while the others are negative. I would like to have the Minister's answer as to whether he is reaching a majority of those who have been asked now answer that there is a great risk that this will have a negative impact on the ability of the Danes to have new products and a negative impact on competition in this area, which is actually the exact opposite of what one wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152718	I would like to start by saying that the rapporteur also asked in his rapporteur's speech who should pay and said that it is the Danes who will pay for this part of the bill. I would like to turn it around and ask: who will pay if we do not know that excessive charges and unfair profit margins on direct debit products cannot be taken? Only the Danes can pay for that. That's why this bill helps to strengthen Danes against monopoly-like companies that have the strength to go in and set these levels. Yeah, well, then we're gonna have to look at the competition in this market. We are tempted to ask the other way round: does the rapporteur believe that competition in a market is conducive if there is insufficient control of players in such a dominant position on the market? That is precisely the control we want to strengthen with the legislative proposal. So I am quite sure that we will achieve what the rapporteur wants: better protection for Danes as consumers, perhaps a cheaper everyday life, and a continued basis for competition in this market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152825	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152827	Now, for good reason, I do not know the information that the Ministry has and which has not been passed on in the material that lies here. But of the information I have, Payment Services today account for 25%. of the bills paid in Denmark. It is a very, very large part of the Danes who benefit from Payment Service and who use it to some extent, but according to my information, payment service only accounts for less than 25%. of the bills paid in Denmark. This means that the Minister and the government and a large majority in the Folketing want to control prices in a market where 25% are called. monopoly-like conditions. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152910	No, I think we should try to be careful that we do not go wrong about what the bill actually contains. No one here goes politically in and controls prices. What the bill authorizes is that our competition authority, which is not politicians, has the opportunity to see, as the Conservative rapporteur said, through the entire value chain of companies working with direct debits, thereby establishing whether the Danes are paying unreasonablely high fees or whether there are unfairly high profit margins on products. So I think this is a monopoly-like situation when I think that's the figure I've seen at some point • nine out of ten Danes are on the same debit solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152956	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112152959	Thank you. I actually have a lot of questions, but I think I'll just pass them on to the committee, but one of them shouldn't be cheated by the Minister today. I just want to know whether the Minister can confirm that the competition authorities, as they are today, already have the power to take action against unfair payment service prices in relation to the competition law. With regard to the fact that direct debits are covered by Paragraph 122, I would say that the only difference it makes is that if you want to change pricing, if you want to dictate pricing on the payment market, then you no longer have to open a competition case. That's the difference. So what the difference is basically is not that the authorities are getting bigger muscles, but that the system should take less account of the legal certainty of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153054	No, I don't recognize that picture at all. What is the difference in the fact that the competition authorities can now use the payment law to investigate matters of this nature is, as I have just said, that you can see through the whole value chain. There we can see from some of these debit solutions that there is a value chain that is longer and that extends into, for example. Our financial sector, by the way, in the banks, etc. This is a new opportunity, and that is why I dare to use the expression that, as a competition authority, you gain greater muscles. And as a consumer, I actually think it is healthy for our competition authorities to be able to monitor whether anyone is in a dominant position in a market and is using it to charge excessively high fees or take unfairly high margins. I think that in the end it can only be paid in one place, namely by consumers, and they are the ones that this law aims to protect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153148	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153151	Thank you. So let's say we end up in a situation about x time and the authorities decide to lower the price of payment service. Is it not a concern on the part of the Minister that this could mean that competition on the market is even more difficult because prices are artificially low and the new players entering the market are finding it harder to compete with Nets because they have forced them to lower prices? Can we not end up with a situation where there is less competition, less innovation and thus ultimately and in the long run worse conditions for consumers, or is this a concern that we do not in any way share?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153227	It is, of course, an obvious dilemma to discuss, and I think it is a good thing that it is being brought up. For what is it that can promote competition? I would also like to have more competition in this market. However, is it to maintain a setup in which competition authorities do not have sufficient muscles to monitor the dominant players in the market, which could potentially lock the competitive situation, or is it precisely to be able to intervene with dominant players in the market so that the competitive situation can be opened up? I think we can discuss that for a long time. The good thing is that the parties that have taken responsibility and are part of this political agreement will have a good opportunity to discuss it when the Competition Authority has done its analysis and when the agreement is to be evaluated in two years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153315	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153328	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153359	Thank you. This is another bill that works with and that we need to focus on the fact that the effect of the upcoming brexit means that we need to adjust the law so that there is no expiry date. This gives us an opportunity to ensure so much that those who are entitled to lost earnings are also covered when they are in England, in other words the United Kingdom, when they leave the European Union. This allows them to be covered for up to 9 months. It is very important and crucial that, in such a situation as affects you to such an extent, you may be allowed to take account of your lost earnings. This is one of the many things that is a bit of trouble when you step out like this, and with the bill we will be able to contain it. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party accedes to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153549	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next one, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153600	Thank you. As I have said, this is a fairly straightforward legislative proposal of a relatively technical nature, a legislative proposal designed to ensure that citizens covered by the Brexit Act are not affected by the latest extension or possible further extensions of the deadlines for Britain's withdrawal from the EU. Specifically, with this amendment, we ensure that the original purpose of the law is maintained, so that citizens covered by Article 21, also after an extension of the withdrawal, have a reasonable period to clarify their rights and situation. We in the Left think that this is only fair, so that they have the opportunity to adjust their life situation, for example when it comes to caring for children and the economy behind them. In this context, of course, we are also pleased that the persons covered by section 24 of the Act will be able to continue an already granted and initiated care of the dying, even after the date of withdrawal. In the Left, of course, we hope that there will be a proper agreement that will ensure proper conditions for British withdrawal from the European Union. I think that's in everyone's interest. But, of course, it is also important for us in the Left that we in Denmark prepare for the scenario in which Britain might leave the European Union without an agreement. That is why the Brexit Act and this technical amendment to the law are necessary, and that is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153725	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153732	Thank you. It's gonna be a bit of a repeat. As has already been said, the draft law is about a technical amendment to a previously adopted law called no deal-brexit law. A number of rights are being maintained for citizens who are socially guaranteed under Regulation 883 and who have the right to include help under Danish legislation. The No deal brexit Act was adopted on 19 March 2019 and aims to counteract the most serious consequences of the UK leaving the EU without an exit agreement. It is about certain paragraphs, which are also mentioned today, among others. Paragraph 42 of the Services Act, which deals with loss of earnings, as well as care allowances under § 119. In the case of lost earnings, the right to benefit is retained for nine months after the entry into force of this law. The Danish People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153839	Thank you. The Radical Left also accedes to this bill and fully agrees with the previous rapporteurs and uses the same argument, so I shall not repeat it here. The Radical Left also supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153854	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153908	Thank you. Many fine things have been said before it was my turn, and I shall also be brief. L 44 is a technical bill to ensure that a number of British EU citizens living in Denmark will continue to have social rights, according to the Services Act, for up to 9 months after brexit. Of course, the SF backs the bill and votes in favour, as other things would be unfair to British EU citizens living in Denmark who might inadvertently be hit by a hard brexite.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see any rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112153951	As the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, the aim of the draft law here is to counteract the most serious consequences of brexit for citizens who are socially safe in Denmark and who, before the adoption on brexit on 31 January 2020, have received help to cover lost earnings. The bill gives them the right to maintain this aid for a period of nine months. In addition, persons who are covered by the right to enter into a care relationship with dying persons under Section 119 of the Service Act may, after the date of withdrawal, continue to be entitled to leave regardless of the new deadline. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154040	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the alternative rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mira Issa Bloch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154049	Thank you for the floor. The alternative is that we should extend the deadline so that the serious consequences of the UK's withdrawal from the EU without an agreement are minimised as much as possible. Preferably we saw that they remained in the European Union, and the second best thing is for them to resign on the basis of a constructive agreement, and in any case it is our wish that this should be done in a proper manner, including as proposed, so that people affected by brexit will continue to be able to receive help to cover lost earnings for 9 months after the date of departure and will be able to continue already granted and initiated care for the dying. Then I would also like to take this opportunity to say on this subject that, in the alternative, we are not happy that the United Kingdom wants to leave the European Union. Indeed, we see cooperation in the European Union as very important and want us to be as much as possible in the European Union as possible so that we can stand together and further develop cooperation so that the European Union becomes more green, more socially balanced and even more democratic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154200	Thank you. I need you to stay right there. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154209	It was, of course, a touching speech on the part of the Alternative, in relation to how wrong a decision the British have apparently made, and therefore it might be nice to hear what the alternative will offer the British in order to stay in cooperation. You can't just tell people that they're stupid because they want something other than what you want. You kind of have to meet them. So what are some of the considerations that the alternative might have done, that the British would have stayed in the European Union, instead of those that we see as having now turned their backs on the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154235	I have simply not prepared for that question, so I have no answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154243	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154245	Should I understand that it is true that the rapporteur chooses the country's most distinguished platform to stand and speak dunders against the British people, after which she has no proposals as to what could be offered to the British people in order to do what the rapporteur would like to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154304	There are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and then we go on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154312	I just want to say that New Citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154317	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154322	The Liberal Alliance agrees with the arguments put forward in connection with this bill, and we will also vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154332	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we will give Enhedslisten's rapporteur the opportunity to come to the floor when she did not reach it in the first place. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154347	That's very kind, and thank you for that. On behalf of our political rapporteur, Pernille Skipper, I would like to say that we consider this to be a very technical proposal and a necessary change in relation to the changed situation, so we would say that we agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154407	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there are no brief remarks. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154412	Thank you. Yes, it is true that many people say that the draft law here is of a relatively technical nature and in full accord with the law adopted by the Danish Parliament on 19 March, which should counteract the most serious consequences for citizens of a no deal-break. Since that law was dealt with, the deadline for brexit was postponed until 31 January at the latest. The government hopes, of course, that Britain's withdrawal from the European Union will take place in accordance with an agreement, but as long as the opposite cannot be ruled out, we must take action. That is why the government has also stepped up its preparations for the negotiations and would like to sign the preparatory work carried out by the previous government on this matter. In relation to this specific draft law, it should be pointed out that it contains only two small and entirely technical amendments, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, of the no deal-brexit chief law, which was unanimously adopted in March, as I started by saying. And the postponement means that the two articles of the law no longer fulfil their purpose. The aim here is therefore to maintain the protection of citizens by means of a no deal-brexit, which the Danish Parliament has already agreed to once, even by unanimity, and I can see that we will have it again today, and of course for that I am grateful. If there are any further questions that you would like to have clarified, I am of course at your disposal during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154544	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154559	I would just like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 14 November 2019. Before we get started, we'll give you the opportunity to move around and sit down in the right places. We're gonna get backup, so we're just gonna take it easy. Are we about to be there? Then I think it looks like we're all ready. Yeah. We shall then proceed to the debate, and it is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti, on a explanatory note. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112154800	Thank you. The question to which the Danish People's Party has called is: How and when will the Minister resolve the monitoring problems and help those families who cannot at present be helped to monitor a family member with an intrusive disability because there is no legal basis in section 95 of the Service Act. 3 to provide support for monitoring in your own home? In the Danish People's Party we consider it important that we amend the Services Act and we have a legal basis in place so that the municipalities can return to the practice that existed before the Court judgment in 2015. There has been a great deal of effort to resolve this with several consultations plus a report in the Committee on Social Affairs, in which a large majority, among other things, has been involved. wrote that the possibilities of finding a solution to the problem of cash grants for the recruitment of assistants under Section 95 of the Service Act on monitoring had not been exhausted. The parties behind the agreement continue to state that they consider it essential that this issue be resolved, and the parties note that the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs is now in the process of identifying solutions and is in dialogue KL. In spite of this, however, it has not yet been possible to rectify the shortcomings caused by that judgment. After all, the judgment brought about an adjustment of the previous practice, in which aid was actually granted for monitoring under Section 95 of the Services Act around the municipalities. However, the judgment stated that it is only hours for personal and practical help at home, i.e. home help, that can be included in the overall measurement. This has been of great importance to a great many citizens who, because of their disability, are unable to take care of themselves and who therefore need to be monitored because, for example, they are not able to take care of themselves. suffer from epilepsy or other forms of seizures where they need help. Prior to the judgment, according to the information we have at least received in the past and which we have also been informed that the Ministry has received, the municipalities have followed the practice that monitoring was included in the total appropriation according to what is called Section 95 of the Service Act. However, since the judgment, the municipalities have begun to ignore it, and therefore it lacks legal basis in the legislation. Instead, families must throw the towel into the ring because they are in an unsustainable situation where they are forced to, for example. to send their young people into accommodation offers. In addition, there is also the whole problem of ALS patients. So we're dealing with the young target group, but also with patients with ALS. I therefore hope that we can have a good debate here in Parliament on how to solve this problem, and I would like it to be the case that it should not be dependent on one government or another government, because I believe that we have a joint responsibility here in the Folketing to solve the problem. So I look forward to the debate here today. I think my speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155107	Thank you. That was the reason. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior for the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155116	The debate on questions, which we are discussing here, is about monitoring people with intrusive disabilities who need help with virtually everything in their daily lives, in other words a very vulnerable group. Specifically, there are questions about how and when I will solve the monitoring problems and help those families who are not currently able to receive help to monitor a family member with intrusive disabilities because there is no legal basis in section 95 of the Services Act. 3. to provide support for monitoring in their own homes. The question debate here is important, because it is an issue that is extremely important for the affected families and that has been in constant focus in recent years, more specifically since a ruling of the Court of Justice back in 2015. In other words, we are faced here with a problem which the previous government has known throughout the period of government, without a solution being found. In this connection, I would like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party has constantly raised the issue of monitoring over the last four years, but, on the other hand, I must also note that it has not been possible to find a solution for the Danish People's Party in the years when it was parliamentary basis for the bourgeois government. The 2015 judgment states that there is no scope for monitoring as part of the overall assistance in relief schemes under Section 95 of the Services Act. These are the aid schemes where you get a cash grant for hiring helpers to carry out personal care and practical help at home. The absence of monitoring in these schemes is of particular importance for families with relief schemes under § 95 (1). 3. These are the arrangements in which the relatives, typically the parents, at home care for an adult son or daughter with an intrusive disability who are unable to take care of themselves and where, at the same time, there is a need for monitoring. It is therefore a very vulnerable group of people who have a massive need for help in their daily lives. Those families experience that, after the 2015 judgment, they have gotten into a mess and that they really only have two options to provide the necessary help to their loved ones. One possibility is that they choose to supervise themselves in addition to the often very extensive help in everyday life that they receive support from the municipality and provide as part of their aid scheme. It goes without saying that it can easily lead to wear-down, especially if you monitor at night and do not get your sleep at night. We also need to be very insensitive in order not to be able to understand the frustration that it must create if we feel that the society we are part of does not step in with that help when we really need it. Another possibility is that families experience that they have to let their son or daughter move in a settlement offer where surveillance can be provided even if the person concerned is not ready for it. I fully understand that it is an extremely difficult situation to stand in as parents, and it must inevitably cause concern and fear for the future. Therefore, the government will not allow time to pass as the previous government. We will find a solution to the monitoring problem. We know that there are many people out there waiting impatiently for monitoring to be ensured as part of the assistance in relief schemes under section 95 of the Service Act. 3. I am sure that the rapporteurs in the Danish Parliament will also be given clear proof of the many citizens' requests and requests from interest groups that I receive on a regular basis. The group of people who need monitoring, as I mentioned earlier, is a very vulnerable group which needs help with almost everything in their daily lives, both for personal care and for more practical things. In addition, this group also needs help, for example. an epileptic seizure or failure. At the same time, these people have relatives, often their parents, who make a great effort daily to care for and care for their loved ones. In the government, we are actively working to find a model for surveillance. There are several ways to go when it comes to drawing up a concrete model, but it is particularly important that we take care of young people with extensive disability and their hard-tested parents. I am thinking here of the young people who, through their entire upbringing, have been cared for at home by their parents and who are not ready to move in housing offers. At the same time, however, a solution to the problem of monitoring requires that the necessary funding be identified. I have to say here quite frankly that, especially after the tax cuts made by the previous government in recent years, we have had to give tough priority to the general restoration of welfare. In the municipal economy agreement concluded in early autumn, we have set aside 2.2 billion. kr. to a general welfare promise for next year, and I am, of course, very pleased about that. With the financial bill that we have presented and which is currently being negotiated at high pressure, the government is working for the benefit of the whole of Denmark. There are many gaps to fill, but there has also been room for a much needed general boost in the social field. Unfortunately, however, the many gaps also mean that we do not make it all the way around in the first financial law. It is clear that the government would also have liked to have given even more priority to the area of disability and the rest of the social area, and we will do so over the coming years. But let me be clear: the government will find a solution to the monitoring problem. There should be no doubt about that. However, a solution requires both 90 mandates in this Chamber and funding. We have had to prioritise a general recovery of welfare with our first financial bill. Fortunately, this will also benefit people with disabilities, but I promise that in the next few years we will also give priority to the area of disability when we give priority to welfare. Thank you for the question, thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting it forward, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155706	Thank you. A brief comment or question from the rapporteurs is now available. The first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155716	First of all, thank you, and then I would like to sign that the government will resolve this issue, because it is about families, and it is about security and security and quality of life for people with disabilities. But I'm gonna ask, when? Because I actually think these families have waited long enough, but somebody has stretched their legs to get to the end of it, and I do not know exactly who has set their feet on it. You can have your thoughts. In the Danish People's Party we have fought for this for a very long time, and we have also taken the initiative at the negotiating table and have among other things. In the pool of rates asked if solutions could be found. But there's kind of been somebody who put their legs on it. So I am really glad that the Minister has now signed for it by wanting to act, but when can you expect to see it in the families? When can they expect help to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155818	As I said, I have great respect for the fact that this is something that the Danish People's Party has been lifting for a long time, and in fact knows the Danish People's Party better than I, what it was that went wrong under the bourgeois government and that it did not end up here, because it was already in 2016 that my predecessor, when we last had a social and interior minister, Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left, said that now there would be a solution. Since then, Mrs Mai Mercado, Minister for Children and Social Affairs, repeated that a solution would be found. In other words, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party himself has been somewhat closer than I have been, in that space, in relation to what sort of legholds have been under the bourgeois government. In relation to the debate on why this has not been lifted by the pool of rates, I would say that this is also linked to what was my final comment, namely that, in addition to the 90 mandates, funding is also required. I know that there has been a discussion about whether this really does not cost anything or could actually generate some savings. And I just have to say that this is not the reality we meet or previous governments have met when we assess this with the municipalities, who are the ones who are going to do it both here, but who are also being given a new task if we create a legal basis that is not in the law today. So my answer is this: as soon as possible, but it requires both funding and 90 mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155939	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. I should like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that I said that there was one brief comment to be made to the Minister. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112155947	I think this is too important an agenda to use it for political ends, as the Minister does. The minister says that the reason the government is not going to do anything now about this problem is the previous government's tax relief. Let me inform the Minister that if the government wants to roll back the tax reliefs if, for example, the Minister and the government... want to raise the registration tax on cars again or raise the tax for people with low incomes who are in work, if the minister and the government want all that then you can do it along with the red support parties. I am sure that Enhedslisten and SF will help raise taxes in Denmark again. That is part of their ideology. So would the Minister not say that the reason why there is no money for this now is not the previous government's tax relief for them, can the Minister just change with his government but that this government has chosen not to prioritize money for this purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160053	I also think that the matter is certainly too important for political reasons. I could spend a lot of my time standing here wondering where the promise from the bourgeois government to these families was made in 2016 and 2017 and 2018 and the first half of 2019. I think we should stay too good for that. Now, unfortunately, we are still faced with the situation which has many years ahead of us as a result of a ruling by the Court of Justice. I think, in fact, I was very real and open in my reply that there have been some difficult priorities in the financial bill that this government has put forward. The welfare has been underfunded for a number of years, which has been left with some big holes on taxes, on the police, which we have taken on us to fill up with this finance bill. Do we want more in the field of disability? Yes, we will. I also said that very clearly, and that is why we come back to the fact that, in order to have a solution here, it requires 90 mandates in the Chamber, and that requires funding, and that requires a model, and all the government is working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160155	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160158	Thank you. Now I would like to start by welcoming the fact that there is actually quite a lot of support for us to resolve this. So shouldn't you put all that aside and then say this is a question of solving this problem? Because that's a problem. So there are a lot of Danish families who need us to work together to find a solution to this problem. • Families who actually have a burning desire to have their relatives at home instead of going to, for example, a 24-hour institution. We in New Citizens can only back that up. This is precisely to give families the opportunity to decide to a much greater extent how they will organise their lives, and I certainly think we should accommodate that. There is already a great deal of knowledge in the municipalities. I must admit that I can also ask myself this question about the fact that it will cost a great deal of money, because I am in fact in doubt as to how many people today choose to send their relatives to a 24-hour institution in such a way that they simply do not have the opportunity to have them at home because this is not possible today. So I would like to know when there will be a concrete proposal on the table which will enable us to solve this problem together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160316	But I am one of those who agree with the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party that there are many people who need us to find a solution, and also that it is a very difficult situation to be in. It has to be said that when we look at this area historically, it has been built out continuously, and I am glad that there is such a broad consensus that this is one of the places where it is very clear that we have to take the next step. The fact that it is so de facto going to be experienced as we are correcting a backward step, because the municipalities have had a practice that has never been permitted, simply makes the situation even harder for the families and the parents who are in a mess now. I cannot say more clearly than that the sooner there is a system, the better. We're working on a solution. As I said, it requires that you hit a proper model and get the right legal basis from the law, that you can obtain the support of a majority of parties here in the Folketing, and that you have funding, and all these things the government is working hard on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160422	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160424	Thank you. It's quite sad for these families and young people, and I hear we agree on that. So I would really like to hear the Minister about this money. It is from 100 to 150 people at national level, about that, and an expenditure of between 80 million. kr. and 250 million kr. After all, the government is currently negotiating finance law, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will find this money on the Finance Act that is being negotiated at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160505	I think it is quite normal for negotiations to be held in the negotiating room and not from the floor of the Folketing, so I cannot go into the specific negotiations that are going on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160520	Then it's Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160523	Thank you. The answer here to the Conservative rapporteur only shows that the Social Democratic Party did not want to prioritise precisely this. Because if it had been wanted by the government, it would have been in the financial bill. I just have to understand from the Minister today that this is not a solution that is just around the corner. It's not. You want to find a solution, but it is not on the right track, because this has not been given priority. I have not heard that it is on the negotiating table anywhere and I understand that the Left is not part of the negotiations. But one can then hope, on behalf of families with children with massive disabilities, that there is a solution on the way, but I have not heard it. And that doesn't sound like it, because there are big holes that need to be filled, the minister says big holes that need to be filled out even though the welfare costs have increased and increased year by year. So, on behalf of the children and families covered here, the question must be: when will a solution be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160627	In any case, I can confirm that the Left is not currently part of the financial law negotiations. In fact, I think that the discussion about this has filled something in the wake of the financial law debate; it may be related to who you follow on social media and what themes you see are being addressed here. A solution must be found the sooner, the better. We're in full swing on the part of the government, compared to what kind of model would be the right one. And, in addition to that, there is also a clarification of what funding is needed and, in addition, a clarification of who can carry it through in the Folketing. So I am just as impatient as everyone here and can simply say to the rapporteur of the Left that it could have been resolved for many years ago, and I suppose that would have been done if it had been as simple and as important as it is today for the Left. But I am glad that it is important for the Left today, because I think it is important that we concentrate on this area; some very vulnerable people are involved, some vulnerable families.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160736	Then it's Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160740	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to hear from the Minister whether he cannot confirm that both the welfare and the disability areas are going to get a boost with this financial law. I know that, for example, Enhedslisten has been out with, among other things. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is a common desire for us to find a solution in this area as soon as possible and to help the families who need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160813	As I also said to the rapporteur of the Left, my experience is, in fact, that this has filled something in the discussion on the financial law of the year. I would also like to acknowledge that, just as I have acknowledged that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has tried to raise this agenda every year under the bourgeois government, unfortunately without getting through with it. Then I would also like to acknowledge that there is an awareness of this from several of the parties negotiating Finance Law. Yes, with the financial bill put forward by the government and, above all, with the economic agreement that was concluded, more money has been secured for welfare in a way that also provides better space out there locally to ensure proper conditions for those people and the relatives of people who are heavily dependent on community aid. So the short answer to that is that I am happy to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160859	Then it is Mrs Mira Issa Bloch, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160901	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister knows anything about how many families have chosen to send their children for 24 hours instead of taking care of them themselves, because it also costs a great deal of money. It might well be that it would not actually be quite so expensive if many people actually sent their children away. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112160932	No, just as I am sure that almost everyone present in this Chamber has had anecdotal stories and has also been able to read in the press about particularly people who have chosen not to do so because they have estimated that their child was not mature enough to do so. And that is part of the problem we are dealing with, namely that they are not comfortable with it. But I don't have an aggregated number. I also just have to arrest, as I said earlier, that it may be a way into the idea that there should be no funding or that funding should be less, because this requires a new legal basis in the Services Act, and when you impose a new legal basis on the municipalities, they must be dut'ed for it, and unfortunately that cannot be deducted in the way the rapporteur has done today, and indeed others in the debate. So there is a bill that needs to be picked up, but, as I said earlier, over the years we have expanded these paragraphs of the Services Act, which provide worthy help and proper offers, also to citizens with severe disabilities, and this is one of the places where I think it is most obvious that we should take one more step here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161038	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161041	Thank you. And thank you for the introductory speech and for the attention to it. I have, of course, taken note of the Minister's good statements on the subject of disability, and how the Minister would like to see a more and more detailed account and, in fact, a survey of the whole area of disability: what is the status and what are the shortcomings? I am very much in agreement with the Minister. There is a great deal that needs to be looked at, and there is also much that needs to be corrected. My question then goes on more when we talk about this monitoring problem, where really topical young people and their families are in a cat-cheered situation, whether the minister thinks it should also be part of a broader plan: mapping, analytics and later a solution. Furthermore, I would like to hear what the Minister has of an economic framework. How much money does the Minister really think we have yet to come up with in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161142	It is clear that the cost will depend on what kind of model you end up with, what kind of solution you make. So you can't put on such concrete crowns and ear until you have a final model. I would say that there are two different time perspectives for me. When we talk about monitoring, I believe that we must resolve it as quickly as possible. This is a problem that has been quite obvious since the Court judgment in 2015, with some young people and some families in an extremely vulnerable situation. With regard to the second, to which the rapporteur refers, namely the greater mapping of the debate on how to ensure the right specialisation, so as to ensure that there are the offers that meet the needs of people with severe disabilities in Denmark, i.e. an overview that does not actually exist today, which also makes it impossible for us to ensure that there is the right capacity in highly specialised offers to meet the needs of citizens. It is true that it has a longer perspective, because it needs to be done properly and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161248	I should just like to make sure that the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is not present. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, wishes to speak. Rasmus Helveg Petersen I tried to get the floor by pressing the word "want") You only have to press once or you will be deleted again. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical, is coming on now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161308	Well, thank you. You have to fight to get the floor. No, thank you for the Minister's statement. That is exactly what is at the heart of the debate, namely when we can expect to get a proposal from the Minister. Some work is being done to find the right solution. Can the Minister reveal when she expects it to be available? I don't think we got a real touch with when we could count on something then came up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161330	I'm glad you got the floor. It's hard with all that technology. It was better in the old days when you could just raise your hand, but you got the floor. It is quite true that I am not standing here with a precise date. This is because there is some work to be done to clarify which model it takes and what it is to be introduced into the law and then what it is to be financed and then whether some will help both secure the funding and carry it through in the Folketing. And it has been suggested in the debate here that there are also discussions on this subject following on from the ongoing financial legislation negotiations, and of course I cannot go into that further, but what I can say is that for me and the government this is something that needs to be resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161415	Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. And then we have been through the whole series of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161419	I would also like to thank you for the floor. For the Social Democrats, this is an area that is really important and important. And I also think that the Minister is describing a situation which is unfortunate and which is humanly costly for the families affected by it. But I should just like to know whether, if you count back, you have actually known about the problem for a number of years, without the Minister's table having had anything that you could take over. So, is it the case that we have actually known about the problem in the previous government without making any offers that could solve the problem? I just need to make sure I get it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161501	There has been talk about it here since the ruling of the Court of Justice, where part of it has been carried through not only by the Danish People's Party, but also both SF and Enhedslisten, who have been very interested in this. And again, I'd like to say that I'm willing to sign for that. In connection with the review of the Services Act in 2016, the then Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, Mrs Karen Ellemann, was out to talk about a solution; since then, her successor, Mrs Mai Mercado, has been out to talk about a solution, and there is at least no solution. As I also said to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the former governing parties know better than I do what has been of discussion inside that room, that is, inside the government room before we took over. Now we have picked up the ball and we are looking at what is of possible models, and we fully recognise that this is a very difficult situation for some already very vulnerable citizens and their relatives in this country. And, of course, it also has the character of something that needs to be resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161606	Then we thank the Minister for his reply. I would just like to say that it is rare that there is a case so interesting that all the rapporteurs for a question ask for a brief comment to the Minister. It is not very often that it happens, but it has happened today, and we have to note this in the calendar. It is only nice that there are active members of the Folketing who ask questions. We shall now proceed to the debate. And it is the general rules for short remarks that apply, with 1 minute to the first remark and then 1⁄2 minute afterwards. The first is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112161650	Thank you for that, President. In fact, I asked for two brief comments, but I did not. The President-in-Office of the Council, the Rules say that only one question is addressed to the Minister. But at the end of the day, when the Minister goes up, there are two brief comments to be made to the Minister). Good. Despaired mother of handicapped daughter: • Why don't politicians change the law? The title of an article is given in the B.T. on 23 October. The article deals with 17 - year - old Emily, who is brain damaged and who next year is in danger of being forced into an institution due to a lack of help, and her mother does not understand that. The family will do anything to keep Emily at home. Emily is brain damaged, has epilepsy, and is cerebralally paralyzed. She can't talk, walk, eat or wash herself and needs help with everything. By the summer of next year, when Emily turns 18, she surpasses in principle from being the parents' responsibility to be society's. This means that her right to have surveillance aid in parents' homes disappears, and thus, more or less, as the law stands today, she is forced to go to an institution in order to have the vital 24-hour surveillance that she needs. This does not mean that they can make it available to the institution if she gets there, because there they cannot always guarantee that there will be staff of 24 hours. However, it is not fair that severely multi-disabled young people should be forced into an institution simply because their birth certificate says they are 18 years old. Like all young people, they have to leave home when the young person and the family are ready to do so, and it is for these young people individually when they are ready to move. And that individuality and flexibility must, of course, be able to deal with our rules. The family is also basically afraid of how their lives are going to hang together when Emily turns 18, because they're also afraid to break if they can't get this surveillance aid. It is not only young people who may need monitoring; it is also people with ALS who may need monitoring around the clock. It is not reasonable for the next of kin to carry out that task 24 hours a day, while at the same time providing all the practical things at home. The alternative will be a stay in a nursing home, but it is not always what is wanted, and the desire is often to stay in the home with his family, and then it must also be possible to choose the solution and get the necessary help. Several organisations have previously written to us rapporteurs as well as the Ministry, and in a letter to the Danish Parliament both the Epilepsy Association and the Danish Handicap Federation also note: In general, housing offers with monitoring are neither standard in the municipalities nor necessarily a more professionally sound or a cheaper solution than staying in their own homes. I suppose a dignified and independent life in our welfare societies is also the right to decide where you want to live. In the past, a note has been drawn up in the Ministry stating: since no regulation was made in the municipal block grant as a follow-up to the ruling of the Court of Justice, where it was found that there was no authority to measure aid for monitoring under § 95, it is not considered that the introduction of such a legal basis would entail additional costs. It should then be thought that it was quite simple to reinstate the legal basis which set up the practice that has so far been, but apparently it has not been that simple. That is why we are here again today, where among others. The Danish People's Party has fought this battle for many years, and we have subsequently been supported by the SF and also the Enhedslisten, and we are very happy about that. And today we are also supported by many more people who can see that there really is a need to take action in this area. Thank you for that. But what is then in it is that the Ministry has not agreed with KL's calculation models. As a former minister said in consultation, no agreement could have been reached with the KL on this point. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is a paradox that an institutional space for young people, where the need for supervision requires particularly high standards, is much more expensive than a continuation of a system at home. This is also supported by an earlier reply from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs to the Danish Parliament's Social and Home Affairs Committee, where it appears that the monthly unit costs are between 25,000 and 30,000 DKK. higher for a place in a 24-hour institution. In the Danish People's Party we think this is so important that it is more important for us that we have a broad understanding that we have to find a solution to it, in terms of having an argument about who did what and why. I would have liked both the previous government and the current government to have solved this if additional funds were to be found in the economic agreement. That was easy to solve in the economics agreement. This is simply about families and people getting the help they need, as it is in several articles. There was an article on the muscle loss fund website today: • My life must be lived • Also when the home helper goes away. And we have repeatedly seen articles describing these unfortunate situations. And, of course, I think that in finding a solution, it is important to involve those involved, specifically the relevant parties, that is. organisations for disabled people and others; In the middle of my speech, I can see that I have to read out a proposal for adoption, not President? Yeah. Anyway, thank you. I hope that we will have a good debate today and, above all, that we will resolve this challenge. But it is a proposal for adoption which the whole parliament is simply behind. I have to say that I have not received any feedback from the Party Forward, but otherwise it is the entire Folketing. That fg. President-in-Office, the Party Forward is holding back a little bit!). But otherwise it is on behalf of the rest of the Danish Parliament (DF, S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament urges the government to find a solution as soon as possible to the monitoring problem of severely disabled people who cannot be supervisors but who want to live at home, including among other things. in relation to the transition from child to adult life. Monitoring is essential because the person may urgently need help because of e.g. failure or an epileptic attack. Monitoring may be an alternative to placement in a residential or nursing home. However, a judgment of the Court of Justice of 2015 stated that there is no legal basis in the Service Act for the municipalities to grant assistance for monitoring. In practice, this means that the relatives are forced to monitor the person around the clock or apply for accommodation in a 24-hour institution away from the family and everything the person knows and is safe with. The situation is not sustainable for the affected families. V 10).
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162353	Thank you to the rapporteur. A proposal for adoption has now been submitted, which will be part of the further process. There are no questions, so we turn to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162417	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Karina Adsbøl, for raising this question debate. It is an issue that is incredibly central to all of us, of course, it has emerged. I would like to start by just briefly reading out the last sentence of the proposal for adoption, which I think is very appropriate for what we are doing, namely: the situation is not sustainable for the families concerned. ▪ On the part of the Social Democrats, we believe that there is room for and need for everyone, everyone must have an opportunity to participate in the community, and there is also a need for everyone to have a place. That is why we must take account of the particular needs and make exceptions when necessary. So that is also why we welcome the fact that this question debate focuses on people with disabilities and disability policy at all, because it has not filled enough. It has not filled enough for all of us, and we need to work together to put people with disabilities back on the top of the agenda. So thank the rapporteur for raising this debate; we very much appreciate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162540	There's a question. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162543	I would just like to ask how the fact that it necessarily costs the Treasury something when the municipality is given the authority to provide a service is therefore related to whether there is an explanation for what the Socialist rapporteur can give. Because what is normal is that the municipalities can only demand money when they are required to do something. If you give them an opportunity that they can do something without being required to do anything, then they cannot demand money. And as I understand this case, it's all about them just being allowed to do it, as they did before the judgment in 2015. And it's not like it's a cold cold. It's a legal basis for doing so. So can the rapporteur confirm that if the municipalities are just allowed to do things, they should not necessarily have some money from the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162631	As I understand it, this possibility is already present, that is that the municipalities can do this here, but that we have seen around the municipalities that it does not happen. So what is central here is to ensure that the opportunity is created so that, when you go from child to adult, a solution can be found to this monitoring problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162706	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162708	I understand the matter that the municipalities have no authority to provide support for home surveillance. And if it is correct that they just have to have such a legal basis for themselves to be able to do so if they want to do so, among other things. because the parents may argue convincingly that they would otherwise have their child listed for a place on a settlement offer... will the Social Democrats help to change the law so that the municipalities can do so here, so that they have a legal basis... without imposing it on them, but give them a legal basis for what would not cost the Treasury any money? It could have been done years ago if there had otherwise been a awake person in the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162755	Well, I would say that I think that is an interesting point of view to get into the debate. And I also think that when we just take a question debate and try to nuance the issues that are, and when the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party corrects this criticism, it is certainly important that all perspectives are taken into account. And that is one of the things that such a debate as today also foreshadows: that you can actually get ideas and ways of doing things. So what the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Ole Birk Olesen, says here, I think is worth considering. But if the Social Democratic Party can sign this right now, I need to take a closer look. But I would certainly like to thank you for the very good input that has come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162841	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162843	I would like to express my support for the rapporteur's speech. In the Danish People's Party we are quite ready to focus on the disability area. In fact, we think we have been making a huge attempt for many years, just as we have been talking about the agenda for people with disabilities. I would like to hear the rapporteur from the point of view of time: when does the rapporteur think there should be a proposal ready for the families to get help now? For now the families have waited an infinitely long time for us here in Parliament to have been able to get this through for a number of reasons that I am not really fully aware of. I think that someone on the other end is laying an arm, and then there has not been a majority, or that you are worried about KL. I don't know. But at least now we have a completely unanimous Parliament that will do something. So what is the rapporteur's view of the time perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112162943	I think the Minister made it clear in the past that there are a number of technical points that need to be clarified, while at the same time having to find funding. I also think there is something that points to the fact that in all of this work, as far back from the judgment of the Court of Justice in 2015, it has taken an incredible amount of time, and I would say at least that when you look at the specific situation and the people who experience the transitions, it is incomprehensible to me that you have not already done that there. So what's a reasonable time bill? Anyway, I think we need to use this pretext to see how you make these technical solutions and where it's gonna be. Then, as the Minister said, there is also the money to get it done if the municipalities are to have the dut. I am really tired of this being a case that has been handed down when you have had ample opportunity to do so, but now this is where we are, and we have to look at what it is you come up with of different types of solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163100	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163102	First of all, it is good that we agree that a solution needs to be found. However, in relation to what was said earlier, this always comes to be about the economy, rather than it comes to people and people's quality of life and other things, and I think that is a pity. But since that is the case, it is precisely a legal basis that is lacking in the Service Act. So you could quickly have a legal basis in the Service Act so that you could get the help you needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163142	I think the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party has said this very precisely: it is bell-clean if you can give the opportunity. Then the rapporteur also says in relation to the municipalities that we have to look at the individual and look at what needs to be done and that in here we take seriously what families are experiencing in this situation. There it is, of course, frustrating, as the rapporteur has repeatedly said, when you, in your family, right on the edge of your child growing up, can see that there are then no opportunities here, and I think we have to take this seriously. So thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163230	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on in a series of rapporteurs to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163245	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, for presenting and taking the initiative on this question. We in the Left believe that it is very important to discuss how to ensure a high level of welfare and quality, including in relation to people with disabilities. Today, we have to discuss more precisely how to ensure that people with disabilities and families can receive the necessary help they need and which they have so far received under Section 95 of the Services Act. 3. This is a problem on which we in the Left are concerned to find solutions. Because there are a lot of parents out there who are frustrated that they are more or less forced to say goodbye to their child and that their child with a severe disability has to move to an institution at the age of 18. They lack the freedom to choose for themselves. After all, when young people are 18 years of age, they are, in principle, surpassed from being parents' responsibility to being joint responsibility, which means, in concrete terms, that the monitoring aid in parents' homes disappears and that young people with disabilities are therefore virtually forced to go to an institution where they need 24-hour surveillance. It is a frustration which I understand and which I also share with the parents and families who have made representations. In fact, I find that very many parents are interested in their children leaving home sooner or later, but notice when they are ready, and they want an alternative to sending their children to an institution as soon as they reach the age of 18. This is a difficult situation for parents and children, and I also see that all rapporteurs are concerned with and able to understand this. Against this background, we in the Left are also pleased with the proposal for adoption on which we have been able to agree and in which the Danish Parliament calls on the government to find a solution as soon as possible to the question of monitoring. That is basically what we have to follow up today and on which we agree and which we would like to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163516	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen and move on to the next rapporteur. No, there was just one question. It's really very late. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk I'm looking at the paper, and it's very small letters when you're not wearing glasses, but of course I could just wear them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163536	That's so good, thanks for that. Thank you for the statement by the rapporteur, whom I think are very positive tactics to hear from the Left. And without having to go a lot of pointy fingers in it because it's definitely not my business I could be a little curious about what it is that has stood in the way of the Left having introduced some solutions to it. Has it been some very specific technical things? Have they been any financial calculations? What has stood in the way of the fact that the Left has solved this problem in the past? I can hear from the rapporteur that we are actually concerned about resolving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163615	I was not a social rapporteur in the previous government, so I have not been so close to the problem, but I understand that what is also beginning to fill something here is the question of crowns and ears. Is it the municipalities, or is it the state that has to pay for this? I could hope that today we jointly found a way to change the legislation as soon as possible, and then we will have to find a solution to the economic debate between the municipalities and the state afterwards. Because today it's the parents who get stuck. And I'm listening to the government discussing I have to understand some solutions. One might then be surprised at the fact that some solutions have to be discussed which the rapporteur accuses me of having found a long time ago. I am quite sure that they are also there because this problem is not new. And I believe that this is essentially the basis of a discussion about the economy between municipalities and the state and thus us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163722	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163723	Now it certainly wasn't an accusation. It was more of a surprise compared to what has happened now. I am also a newly elected member of parliament, and then you can be allowed to wonder for a very long time until you answer for what you have not done or done. So that's why it was a wish for me to know what it is that's gotten in the way in the past. Should I understand that the position of the Left is now that we adopt a solution and, in legislative terms, make a legal basis in some way in the legislation, and then we will have the economic fight later? And was this the solution that Karen Ellemann, as Minister for Social Affairs, also went on to make, when he also promised a solution in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163807	I cannot explain here from Parliament's platform what solution Mrs Ellemann has worked on. I am quite sure that Mrs Karen Ellemann has worked to find a solution. I can only say that we have not found it yet. And then I find that today, a completely unanimous Parliament is calling on the government to find a solution as soon as possible, and we would like to pursue this in the Left, because there are some parents and some children who are locked up today and who do not have opportunities and cannot get the quality that we are also concerned with giving them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163844	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163855	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for the debate, which is clearly necessary and welcome. The Radical Left, like the other parties, supports the proposal for adoption that is before us because the young people who need monitoring must be helped. And I agree that we have a shared responsibility in this matter. One of the key points here is the lack of legal basis for the Service Act over the last four years, which has been established in a ruling of the Court of Justice, and it is tempting to say that we will then have to change the Service Act. But I am optimistic, having heard the words of the Minister for Social Affairs at the start of this debate. She is looking for a solution, and we would also like to help find that solution, whether it is in the Service Act or by giving another funding or something else. We are radically awaiting the Minister's proposal for a solution, whether it be one or the other. We want to be a co-player in solving this problem, and we therefore expect the government's solution to be presented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112163957	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112164013	Thank you. During these years, we are experiencing a lot of turbulence in the area of disability, and more and more citizens are having difficulty in obtaining a BPA scheme. Many find that their previous arrangements are being pruned; it is difficult to get a helper on holiday in Denmark and completely impossible to get help for a holiday abroad. Therefore, we in the SF believe that there might be a need for a study of the role and function of the Ankestyrelsen and of the rules regarding holidays and travel abroad from the perspective of the UN Disability Convention. The disabled area has been under-priority for far too long and now it is time for us to start restoring the area. In relation to today's question debate, I would like to say that it is absolutely time for us to take action. Since 2015, three successive social ministers have said that the issue of monitoring needs to be resolved so that the right offer can be made and thus avoid the forced institutionalisation that has taken place and is now taking place. Every time we and, among other things, we... The DF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, has raised the matter in consultation and put questions to the Minister, we have been told that the matter has been stranded in the negotiations with KL. It is therefore very good that the DF's rapporteur has raised the matter again so that we can hopefully get more clear statements from the Minister. In the SF, we believe that there can be no doubt whatsoever that the provisions of section 95 of the Services Act should be amended or adapted so that a large number of families and their young people no longer have to live in uncertainty about what will happen when they reach the age of 18. Once again, when we talk about monitoring and §95, it is because it is about a group of the most vulnerable young disabled people, and indeed also some older people and their families, who are currently left in a cat pain. These are people with so great a handicap that they will hardly survive their own parents, where development potential is low and where it is best for the young person to stay at home if parents still have the strength to do so. This is about approx. 150 young people and, in addition, a group of young people will benefit from leaving home but need a little more time to mature. And so it is also the case that many young people who do not have a disability do not leave home right on the day of their 18th birthday. When it is considered best for the young person to continue with proper home surveillance, it must be possible, and here excuses for lack of money do not apply. We must be able to afford that, and we should give priority to that. And the SF has therefore also proposed solutions in the financial law negotiations that are currently taking place. Firstly, municipalities must be obliged to engage in dialogue with families in good time and before the child's 18th year, so that the right offer can be made when the young person approaches adult legislation. It is no use letting families live in a limbo, in a no-man's-land, right up to the finish line, which unfortunately we have seen too many examples of. Secondly, a more multifaceted offer should be created for young people with serious physical and cognitive disabilities, so that we can both allow for continued monitoring for young people with very severe physical and cognitive disabilities and create the possibility of a post-residence protection for young people who need a more gentle transition to adult life with the possibility of monitoring during a transitional period, so that in the long term they can become more self-reliant or live in a home offer with the right support, care and care. In addition, we also need to ensure that the citizens who receive all sorts of things, so that they and their families do not spend the last few years of their lives running the municipalities and the Ankestyrelsen on the doors, and here we need to create some processes that create security for the affected person and their families. In those words, it is clear that the SF will vote in favour of the proposal for adoption which Mrs Karina Adsbøl has read out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112164407	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112164410	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for a very fine speech. It was the case that SF and Dansk Folkeparti made a joint proposal before the elections were held, and there I also find that both parties are obliged to follow up on that part. So that's really good. I am also very interested in what the rapporteur mentions in relation to als patients, because we see that they do not get the help they need and that they cut and cut aid, which makes it really difficult for families and makes them really, really vulnerable. We have also had several members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Home Affairs, and I do not know whether it was before the rapporteur was elected. But then there is the transition from child to adult; it is incredibly important, and the Danish People's Party has also played its part in the negotiations itself. So now it's just a question of how and how. So I think we should just have a cup of coffee over it, because we might be negotiating and fighting for the same thing at each of our negotiating tables. At least it's worth it. But thank you for the receipt for the proposal for adoption. The Danish People's Party is quite ready for us to do something together in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112164526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112164527	Thank you very much for that, and I will also sign back to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, as I have said, I am now newly elected, but I can at least sign for the cooperation that has been between SF and DF in this matter, and it just shows that some of the matters that can be quite difficult and complicated, we can actually lift across the parties around the Chamber and within the various blocks, if you want to start talking about both red and blue, and what else you can find, green and light blue etc. And purple. I will certainly sign for that, and I think we should definitely drink coffee, and I think that we should continue to work. There is no doubt about that, and everyone here should know that this is not a case SF is going to leave, it is a case we are going to pursue, and then you must come after me in four years' time and see if we have reached the end of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112164617	There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112164631	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the call for the question debate. I am not the disability rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, it is Jakob Sølvhøj, but as we have talked about in the past, a financial law is being negotiated right now where there is money for welfare and where we can afford to give priority to the area of disability. I know it's a heartchild to him, but I'm here because he's in negotiations. Until 2015, it was common practice in the municipalities to provide assistance for monitoring for citizens with disabilities under Section 95 of the Services Act on cash grants for the recruitment of helpers. This changed when a court ruling was handed down in May 2015 stating that there was no legal basis for measuring hours for monitoring under this paragraph. At that time, the municipalities began to phase out the monitoring aid, and ever since it has been a political discussion how we can restore the right to monitoring. The problem was raised in the context of the negotiations on the review of the adult provisions of the Services Act back in 2016, but the then government refused to resolve the problem by amending the law on the grounds that it would allegedly be very expensive, even if it had been municipal practice until the summer of 2015. Therefore, the problem was not resolved in the legislative revision negotiations and Enhedslisten's amendment to include monitoring in section 95 was voted down at the legislative process. The refusal to solve the problem has meant a violent upheaval for a group of citizens, for whom constant monitoring is vital in a literal sense. Monitoring of the citizens concerned, for example by means of: epileptic seizures or swallowing difficulties may be strangled if they are not constantly monitored have become a task which the relatives have had to take over because of the lack of help. This, by its very nature, involves a large and almost insurmountable task for the relatives who, of course, will do everything possible to prevent their children or their other family members from being forced into a 24-hour institution against their will. So many relatives are undoubtedly wearing themselves out and wearing themselves out. That this is the case with these things has long been known, as several have said, but yet no solution has been found. Since 2015, there has been an ongoing political debate on monitoring. A consultant report has been prepared, which has been held in consultation, both open and closed, and a number of questions have been put to the former Minister for Social Affairs. All this has so far been in vain; no has been said. The argument has been purely economic. The cost of entering monitoring into the legislation has been blown up to totally unrealistic heights that have been used to argue in order to reject a change to the law. Fortunately, other political winds are now blowing, and it is incredibly gratifying that today, across the parties, we can gather together for a joint proposal for adoption calling on the government to resolve the monitoring problem as soon as possible. One solution has been too long along the way, but it is a good thing that we have now arrived at this point. And we have a clear expectation in the Enhedslisten that as soon as possible a solution must be found now so that monitoring support can be granted to the citizens concerned in the near future. Frankly, there is no need for further studies or further illumination of the problem; it has been adequately illuminated. In conclusion, I have promised to welcome from Enhedslisten's disability rapporteur, Jakob Sølvhøj, who is unfortunately prevented from taking part in today's debate, and to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the question debate, but also thank you for a good and long cooperation to ensure support for monitoring. I should also like to thank the SF, which has also stubbornly helped to maintain that a solution needs to be found in this matter and, above all, to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for the clear signal that citizens with a vital monitoring need and their relatives can now at last look forward to receiving the necessary support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112165050	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservatives, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112165104	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing this issue up. On the conservative side, we have a great deal of understanding for the families who are put in a very difficult situation, where they are pressured to choose between either assuming an unreasonable care assignment themselves or leaving their adult sons or daughters to be placed in a 24-hour institution. A land court ruling in 2015 stated that section 95 of the Service Act cannot be used to grant supervision, i.e. help to severely disabled adults living at home around the clock, also at night. This means that families and vulnerable young people are caught. We need to resolve this situation. It is no good for families and young people to land between two chairs and therefore not get the desired help and solution. We must find a solution to this, as it is unsustainable. That is why we also support the proposal for adoption, in which we call on the government to find a solution as soon as possible to the monitoring problem for severely disabled people over the age of 18, who cannot themselves be the head of work but still want to live at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112165220	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mira Issa Bloch as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112165232	Thank you for the floor. In 2015, a court ruling stated that the municipalities were no longer allowed to grant money for monitoring children over 18 years of age, even though they had severe disabilities and were perhaps at a much lower mental age level. This has meant that after the Court judgment in 2015, help has been reduced or taken from vulnerable families who want to take care of their family members in their own homes. These are aid, which is now no longer aid, but is called surveillance and is therefore prohibited. In the alternative, we have also been contacted by people to whom this concerns, and we have heard about the high human costs and consequences it has had. For example: there is Mette, aged 63, who has a 61-year-old sister who can't even, who has no language, and who cognitively corresponds to a child aged 3-6 months. Before the verdict, Mette's sister had 14 hours of surveillance, which meant that Mette could take care of a job and live as normal a life as possible. But after the verdict, the aid was reduced to 31⁄2 hours a day. However, the family did not accept this, and after 900 days of struggle Mette and her family managed to get the help set up for 7.8 hours to cover the sister's waking hours. One of the consequences, however, has been that Mette has had to give up her position as a science teacher in education in order to take care of her sister, and the school is now having difficulty finding a new one to do that job. As a society, we simply cannot invite people to fight a desperate battle with the municipality when they take the great responsibility of keeping a family member with a severe disability in the family's lap instead of sending him to an institution. We must understand that it is a great burden for families who choose to care for family members with severe disabilities at home, and this burden must result in help from society and not in further pressure and stress, as is happening now. In the alternative, we very much appreciate the families who believe that it is best for their families not to send their relatives to the institution, and we support 100 per cent that they should have the help in the home that they also received in the past. In the last session of the Assembly we have not personally participated in several consultations from the Alternative to help find a solution to this problem, but apart from the good intentions of changing social ministers, we have not succeeded. All the initiatives that are about solving this problem are stranded on the economy, and the numbers have flown through the air. Some have thought that it would cost over 100 million. kr. to solve this problem, others have mentioned figures of over 200 million. kr. Then there is also a Deloitte report from 2017 that says it will cost 80-90 million. kr. ensuring that people with severe disabilities can have the surveillance they have lost. But is it gonna cost you that much? Mogens Wiederholt, director of CP Denmark, writes in Altinget that it may only have to cost between 30 and 40 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done. As a result, the local authorities will no longer be free of charge after they no longer have to provide assistance for monitoring. They are, of course, obliged to find other solutions, such as: 24-hour stays in accommodation offers, and 75 per cent. These costs are borne by the municipalities. So from the point of view of the alternative, we would like to get the figures figured out and figure out what it really costs to get this support for monitoring that the families have lost. If it's really only 30-40 million. kr., we should be able to find that money. But no matter what it costs, the alternative is willing to find what it takes. At any rate, it needs to be resolved, and we are therefore very pleased that so many parties are united in a proposal for adoption which signals that it will be resolved in this assembly of parliaments. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112165709	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112165723	Thank you so much. As I said before, I would like to start by very much welcoming the fact that there is such broad support for this. This is an insanely important issue. This is something that we need to resolve. It affects a lot of families. We've all been able to see that I've also been contacted by a lot of people, how a lot of relatives of children, young people and adults with disabilities of different kinds get up around the country and fight for better conditions in this very, very important area. That is why I would also like to welcome the fact that there are so many of us now, in fact the whole of the Danish Parliament, who support the need to find a solution in this area. In New Citizens we generally want Danish families to be able to adapt much more as they wish. We want better opportunities for you to organize yourself financially, for you to be able to take care of your crèches at home, if that is what you want, and of course you must also have better opportunities to look after your disabled relatives at home instead of being forced to send them to an institution, if that is what you want, because it has to be up to the individual family. It must and must simply be up to the individual family. It must of course be for those with the urgent need mentioned here, for example. those with ALS, but we also have to include them in the calculations, which have a cognitive age, as was also mentioned here earlier, which is on a small child's level. So we cannot look solely at physical age in the field of disability. We also need to look at the individual person and the mental age that this person has. This is extremely important, for it is difficult enough today to be relatives of a child or an adult with a severe disability. Now that there is such broad support here, we must also support the opportunity for families to take care of their disabled relatives at home, if that is what they want. In general, I've been wondering for a long time now how focused I have been on this physical age. That's also why I'm bringing it to squares in relation to this, that it's important that we also look at the cognitive age. Now, for example, this thing with ALS and this one with difficulty swallowing was mentioned, and that is a crazy important point, but there are also some, which was also mentioned before, who cannot be alone at home because they are like young children and who therefore need to be monitored. That's what we're gonna have to look at when we're talking about this moving away from home. I would now like to say that not everyone, even those without disabilities, is leaving home on the day of their 18th birthday. But it's certainly important to keep in mind that this is also a parameter. I will end by saying that there was a mother who wrote to me that she was so happy that this was taken up and that it seemed that there was broad support for it. She writes: We don't ask for help if it doesn't make sense; nobody collects helpers in their own privacy unless it's vital. By that I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, we are supporting one hundred percent of this and that we need to find a solution to this very, very important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170115	Thank you. I would also like to welcome the fact that there is such a broad majority in the Folketing in order to resolve this problem, because no one is served by parents who would like to take care of their handicapped children, even after the age of 18, choosing to send them children to a 24-hour institution if they would really prefer to keep the child at home, which, in all probability, both for the child would be the best, but also for the public economy would be the best thing, because a 24-hour institution is much more expensive than providing relatively minimal help for monitoring in their own homes. I have a very clear sense of what has happened here, and not a beautiful sight. I understand that until 2015, the municipalities thought that they had not only a legal basis, but also a duty to provide this help, and therefore they did so. Then it happens that the law is interpreted in such a way that there is no legal basis or obligation to provide aid for the surveillance of children aged 18 years in their own homes. The municipalities with their organisation KL then see the possibility of getting some money that they have not received in the past, by changing the law into a duty that they now apparently did not have in the past, and when they are given a new duty, they must also have some new money. Such is the negotiating environment between the state and the municipalities, which means that some expenses they have had in the past but which they did not need to have will now suddenly be compensated for, because the court has established that they have no legal basis or obligation to provide this help. A resourceful government could, in that situation, and I have to admit that I have been part of that government, but I have not been Minister for Social Affairs, after all, just given the local authorities the legal basis without giving them the duty. Then they could have paid the old expenses as they would have, and they would not be able to demand any money from the state in order to meet the expenses that they have had in the past and for which they have apparently been able to find money. But something has started going on there may have been a social minister talking to a party member over in the National Association of Municipalities and thinking that they should have some money. Instead of just allowing them to bear this expense, we have agreed to the idea that they should have a duty to bear the cost, and therefore they must have some money from the state. In this whole game, the families with the disabled children who are 18 years of age have been hostages to the fact that the National Association of Municipalities has seen an opportunity to score some extra money, and for a government that was not awake per hour and said: "You know what, you can continue with this practice without there being any requirement that you should do so, and thus you can bear the expenses, but you should not have any money from the state for it. By the way, you've had the money in the past, because you've paid the expenses. It is, of course, gratifying if the money exists, but if it does not exist, there is only one thing to do, and that is instead of talking about all the money that the municipalities should have immediately to make the law so that the municipalities have the authority to spend the money without having to spend the money, because then they can continue the practice they had before 2015 where they actually spent the money without the state giving them money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170523	There's a question. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170526	Thank you. I would say that a little along the way, I can follow Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in the analysis that it doesn't necessarily cost the giant box. It can be said that in the case of many of these young people and the group of citizens we are talking about, there may be other kinds of interventions, so it can be said that the calculations that have been put forward in the past have also, in the SF, been twisted. However, I would just like to say that I am astonished by the rapporteur's criticism of the municipalities and the KL. Now I myself have just been on KL's Social Committee, where we have actually been working on this, and I have also been chairing the Social Committee in a municipality and there has been no dislike. But what should also be borne in mind is that the municipalities have a very high level of expenditure in the specialized social area. Among other things, it has. Very many mayors have come together to ask for more funds. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he agrees that in here too we have some sort of financial responsibility for what we impose and allow the municipalities to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170638	My point was not that this measure will cost no money at all if you do so, because I do not know how many millions you save in institutional places when you give help for home surveillance. My point was that it does not have to cost the Treasury money, because if the state simply allows the municipalities to do so here without requiring the municipalities to do so, it is not something that costs the Treasury money in so-called hydration. But it is fun to listen to the questioner, who has been in the KL's Social Affairs Committee, because the questioner is obviously an accomplice to this case, which has been involved in demanding that some money should come from the state, rather than simply asking for permission to do what has been done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170722	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170724	I can honestly say that it is absolutely certain that I have not been involved in demanding that. But I have been sitting there at a time when we were debating what solutions might be available. Again, I would like to stress that I agree with the rapporteur so far that we are talking about what we can authorise. One can also provide opportunities to continue such efforts for a period of time. However, I would like to say that it is the SF's view that we should not impose too much costs on the municipalities. Now we do not impose it, but we will do so by giving it the opportunity, which is why we also believe that some kind of reasonable handshake should be given, so that it is not again the citizen who gets caught up in a game between the sluggish economy of the municipalities and then the needs they actually have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170810	But the thing is that the municipalities have paid these expenses before 2015 and the reason they stopped doing so is that there is a verdict that says that they must not bear the costs at all anymore. So they have the same money available that they've always had, even before 2015, for this purpose; they've just stopped providing the service because they've got a court word that it's not legal to provide the service. They should only be allowed to do so, and then they could have spent the money they have spent so far, but apparently there was a minister then who was not awake per hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170843	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170847	I think this debate on the question bears witness to the fact that what we in the Danish Parliament want to do is to spread out the nuances and try to become wiser has actually succeeded the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Karina Adsbøl, on this issue. At least there are some things where we can all go home and think about things and perhaps ask new questions. What makes me speak after an otherwise interesting remark from Ole Birk Olesen is the whole discussion about how much welfare there is and where there is money for it and how to prioritise it. I'm just wondering if Ole Birk Olesen will clarify once again what he means by the distribution of it. Should I understand that he believes that the municipalities have ample finances for the welfare that is a priority? I just got a little insecure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112170947	In the specific case, the municipalities had the money to provide the aid before 2015, when they were told by judgment that they were not allowed to provide it. They were not deprived of any of their money by judgment; they were merely told that they were not allowed to give this help. If then there had been a minister who had changed the law so they could, there was no doubt that they had the money for it, because they had spent the money earlier. Generally speaking, we know that some municipalities drive themselves very effectively, while other municipalities drive themselves very little effectively. The productivity commission of the then Thorning-Schmidt government said that if all the municipalities were as efficient as the most efficient, they would be able to save 10%. in their main items of expenditure. So, yes, I believe that if the municipalities run themselves efficiently, they can find money for what they need to find money for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171035	We thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171045	Thank you. We go from the highest in the debate to the lowest; we need to get the platform down so you can see me too. I attended a conference earlier this week, where someone filmed my speech, and all you could see was such a head. You couldn't see any of the body at all. I hope now that you can see me fairly well, so that you can also focus on what I am saying, and not only on why such a talking head is floating there in the Assembly Hall. Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs and also to the good debate we have had here today. When Mrs Karina Adsbøl stood here on the platform, she described Emily's situation. I myself, when I was on the platform earlier, had an article about a similar story with a few years on the back, and in this way I think that every story we each hear, every citizen's approach we get, every single person we meet on the street or otherwise reach out to us, makes an impression on us. I have certainly taken that with me from here today, and it is, as I said in my introduction, also some citizens and some relatives in a very vulnerable situation. It is nice, I think, to note in this area that on the other side of the parliamentary elections there has been such broad support for action in the field of disability. One might have wanted the same enthusiasm for action before the elections, but I would like to welcome the fact that it is here now. Then I have to say that the note or answer to which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party refers first in his speech, which shows that it cost nothing, has subsequently been corrected, and much of the discussion has revolved around how much it would cost. That is where I said earlier that it depends, of course, on the model on which one lands. But what is unfortunately certain is that the world is not as good as that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen outlines here, also because it is a wrong picture to draw that all municipalities applied the legal basis that they did not have, i.e. that all municipalities offered monitoring. There was a very different practice and there were few municipalities. So that in itself is part of the problem, it can be said that when you made § 96... it didn't exist 10 years ago if we go back further than that; then these citizens were given help under § 83, which is what we call the home help clause today.. you wouldn't have thought of this problem. There are then some municipalities where a practice has developed that provided assistance for monitoring, and that is what the Court of Justice ruled in 2015 that there was no legal basis for. So alone that means the world isn't quite as good as that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen sketched up. In addition to the assessment that the Service Act is special in the sense that it is always a concrete and individual assessment in the case of the individual citizen that decides whether to have the assistance that is then authorised. You can have local quality standards, and you have done so, but in the end it is always a concrete and individual assessment of the individual citizen, and therefore the assessment is also quite clear from KL that whether it is a "can" or a "must" clause, the pressure on the provision will be so great that it will cost the same. Sir. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen undoubtedly knows more about what was going on in the previous government than I did, and this with an unsightly political game under a government that is not awake per hour, and that there should also be such a bit of a mess about this whole process, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen the more about than I do, compared to how you worked under the previous government. But joke aside. Then it would be nice if we could say with a fingertips in this way: you had the task, and you solved it before, and therefore it must also be free. Unfortunately, the reality here is that there will have to be funding if we create a new legal basis in the Services Act. I am very pleased with the proposal for adoption. I am pleased that there is broad agreement to call on the government to find a solution as soon as possible. The government is also very concerned about this. So it is of course nice that this is something where we have a united Parliament in the back, and we will do everything we can to respond to that call. So I look forward very much to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171503	There are a few questions. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171507	Thank you. I'll do anything to stop the government from doing that, believe me. But the question to which the Danish People's Party has called is as follows: how and when will the Minister resolve the monitoring problems and help the families who are not currently in a position to receive help? We have not quite received an answer to that. My second question is whether the Minister can confirm that both section 95 and section 96 of the BPA legislation are dut-compensated today. That is to say, the municipalities are given dut-fund for it. If the Minister can confirm that, then I will be very happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171554	The existing §95 and §96, when they were introduced, have of course gone through the same dut negotiations as you always do when you introduce something. But here it is not the case that there has been a legal basis which has then been removed. It is a question of a genuinely new legal basis and therefore it would also have to be a new dut-debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171618	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171621	But then the Minister for Foreign Affairs forgot to answer how and when the Minister will resolve the problem here. Because my concern is that it will take too long. I think the families have waited long enough, and they really don't deserve some stupid discussion about who did what or what. I think that we have a shared responsibility for making some good legislation when we see that there are some challenges to be solved. Then I guess it's about being grown up enough to solve it without having to fight with each other. Then it is about having the solutions on the table, and the Danish People's Party is happy to make itself available. We have done so in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171703	In fact, I think that today's debate has been marked by an incredibly great amount of constructiveness. Now the rapporteur says that we must be adults enough to understand the seriousness of this issue for the citizens concerned and their relatives. In fact, I think we have taken that responsibility on a broad scale here in the Parliamentary Assembly. A solution must be found to the problem of surveillance before, the better. There are many who expect understandably impatiently. I have a great deal of sympathy for this, and we have been past many of the life situations one can face with the hard work it gives to the individual. We are in full swing with the work, but I cannot make a fixed date here today as to when a solution is being found. But I understand the old Danish proverb about burnt child who shudders the fire that Mrs Karina Adsbøl has been offered a solution in view many times under the bourgeois government. So I fully understand the impatience. And from me there must be a commitment: as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171759	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171801	I think we should have some facts established. Before 2015, the municipalities had an opportunity to offer this service, which, according to the Minister, some municipalities used very well and which other municipalities chose not to offer. What happened with the verdict was that it was established that it was simply illegal to provide this help. Will the Minister confirm that if you give the municipalities the opportunity to do something that they cannot do today, without requiring the municipalities to do so, you give them an opportunity, if they want to do so, then it does not require them to get money from the Treasury in the dut negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171849	Before 2015, the municipalities had the opportunity to provide this surveillance at home, says Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Actually, they didn't. The municipalities have never had that legal basis. Section 95 was invented, and it is a new legal basis. There has never been a legal basis, either before or after the sentence. It is true that some municipalities have done so, but in fact it has not been legal. So that's the one factual thing. The second fact is that you can dispute and negotiate against that, of course, but in addition to the long course of the previous government in relation to this, it is so that you can have situations where pressure on a "can' clause is expected to be so great that it will de facto correspond to a "must' clause. In the Service Act, where an individual, concrete assessment is to be made of the individual citizen, it is in this case KL's clear assessment that it may not matter whether it is a "can' or "must' clause. For it will be the same in the real world. This is, of course, good news, because the citizens and relatives who are sitting and hoping that this legal basis will be introduced. But that means, in relation to the economy, that the bill to be picked up is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112171958	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112172000	KL will always have more money, and it is the government's responsibility to provide something reasonable in those negotiations so that they do not always get more money every time they demand it. It is quite clear that the practice that existed before 2015 was perceived to be such that the municipalities could, if they wanted to, but could also not, if they would not. This led to some municipalities giving it here, while others did not, which means that the history of this, the precedent in it, here speaks against a claim that if there is a perception that you can do it here, then you have to do it too. So I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that it is entirely
ParlaMint-DK_20191112172050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112172052	I cannot say this much more clearly than I have already done. There has been dialogue on the part of the Ministry with KL on possible solutions, and there has been the clear assessment I outlined before. The Service Act is special in that it is always a concrete and individual assessment of the individual's needs, which trumps, including local quality standards, and what else you can have of local decisions, and therefore the clear assessment is that no matter what, the pressure, even if it is a "can' clause, will be so great that it applies that it will be the same as a "must' clause when we talk about economics. - Sir, you can. Ole Birk Olesen thinks it's silly because he thinks it's something worse that the municipalities should have more money for welfare, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112172134	Then we thank the Minister. The rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti, has asked to speak to conclude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112172146	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs here today. I think we have had a good debate. There have been new rapporteurs in this area following the parliamentary elections, and I would like to say that we have also had very good cooperation in this area with the former disability rapporteurs, including Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from which I was greeted, and the new rapporteur must welcome back and what is so fine about it is that we agree that action is needed and that a solution needs to be found in this area. And then I also think that we now have to look into each other's eyes... now I look you all in the eye... and hold the government up to the fact that there will be a solution, and that otherwise we are ready to take the battle again down here in the Assembly Hall. But in any case, thank you for a good debate, thank you for the broad support for the proposal for adoption, I am very pleased that we could land it broadly. That is the fine thing about the people's regime when it is sometimes a united Parliament that is united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112172249	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 14 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191112172305	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 13 November 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
