ParlaMint-DK_20190110100003	The meeting is open. From a member of the Danish Parliament Martin Lidegaard, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 12 January 2019 onwards he will be able to rejoin the Tinget. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen's duties as a member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110100028	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110100056	I'll open the debate, and we'll do that with mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go, young man, and happy New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110100111	Thanks, you too. For me as a patient, it is incredibly important that the information that is about me and my person and my illness is present if I become ill. It is crucial that it can be assembled from every corner of the health care system, so that you get a complete picture of what is happening around me and my illness. This is essential for the treatment, for the care of the individual patient. If I were now employed as a health worker, it would be absolutely crucial for me as an employee that I know everything about the patient, that I can form an overall picture, that I have the details with which to plan treatment and care as well and as right for the individual patient as possible. That's what this bill is all about. It is about how to get data and make digital cooperation work in relation to the direct treatment of patients, that is to say, by the individual citizen, where in all aspects it is crucial that safety is given a very high weight. What we are aiming at with this bill is to make it more flexible, improve and simplify without compromising the safety of the patient, the citizen's own data, those that influence the treatment and care of the individual patient. We've been working politically for a very long time on this bill. One might say that we have worked too long on this, but I will not go there because this has been an extremely important issue in terms of being careful and detailed and having all the parties around the patient, the citizen, the health professionals, the experts on IT security and others. I am very pleased with the legislative proposal here, we are in the Social Democratic Party, and I think there is reason to say that it has not been easy. There have also been barriers along the way. There has also been political flexibility, both from the Minister, from the rapporteurs and from the officials, in order to try to bring the ends together. It is so important that we start from the individual citizen, the individual patient, and that is why I also started my rapporteur's speech by starting from myself, because we can all put ourselves in the place of getting sick and we hope and trust that health care is there and can do the very best. It is here that we, as health politicians, are also very frequently met by staff in our health services who say that things do not talk together, that it is too difficult here, that it is bureaucratic, that this affects the citizen, that the patient suffers, that IT platforms and systems do not talk together and are connected in the digital collaboration that we are now being set up. We also hear quite frequently patients say: Well, is safety now under control? Can we be sure that when everything is, as it were, assembled and interconnected, the necessary degree of responsibility and care has been taken with regard to safety? All of us are trying to put into this bill, and it is possible that the patient can also disclaim, that data and information are collected, and that must also be done in an easy and flexible way. What is the main content of the bill is that you get this integration done to create an overview of the patient's treatment course. It is also a question of simplifying the possibility of obtaining the information, and then, as I said, it is also a question of allowing the patient to opt out in an easy way of obtaining the information. Safety must be present and very high weight. Quality work in our health services must also be given easier conditions by drawing on health data. We must ensure, and this is what the draft law does, that the data collected in general practice and specialist practice are also properly reported so that they can be used throughout the health service. Then there is a small curl here, I shall tell you about the last 16 seconds of my rapporteur's speech, and that is that there are also improvements in relation to the way in which you can contact parents who have either forgotten or for any other reason have not been guaranteed to have their children vaccinated. It is also possible to do so. Overall, we think this is a good bill. It will have to be evaluated in five years' time, and I would ask the Minister to keep the rapporteur regularly informed of how this is developing, because it has been something that has had a great deal of commitment and attention from all political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110100639	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110100645	Happy New Year. Our health data is incredibly important when it is that we have to be treated in our healthcare system. It is equally important that there is a connection in the treatment we receive when we are out there. It is also important that you do not have to look for the scans or the results that others have done before you get to a place. Today you can be in a course with your general practitioner, you can go to a private specialist, you can be admitted to a hospital ward, and then you can go out on duty when you are at home. I've actually done this myself, where one of them says: I don't see what happened when you were in the hospital. Or: I do not see what has happened with the general practitioner. So there was no connection, you did not know what it was you came up with, and that is also what I hear from many people who are moving from one sector to another. So, of course, we're really happy that with this bill, we're gonna make sure you can share data. Having said that, we must also be sure that we only share what is necessary, that we do not share any of what we may not want to be shared or that is not relevant to those who have to read it. We know very well that practitioners are really afraid that some of what makes you trust your doctor, some of what you can sit and talk to your doctor about, will move on because it is not relevant in a course of treatment. It is not all the information that needs to be provided for the hospital or for the treatment if a patient has been sitting and speaking in confidence with his or her general practitioner. There it is important that it still remains confidential. We think it is very important that those who have access to the data are also the people you trust and trust, and that you as a citizen have access to the data that comes out so that you know who is receiving them. It is important that you can see who logs into your data, and then it is also really important that you can mark some of it that does not necessarily need to go further. I also think it is a little part of some consultation answers that you can privately check some information. The last thing in terms of what we can do for the individual citizen is also that it is important here that we have a knowledge of the citizens, that they have information about how they can consent themselves or the opposite, in other words say no to their information going further. One of the things that we in the Danish People's Party are sensitive to, and which we have of course been made aware of by the insurance industry and the pension industry, the LO and the Danish Employers' Association, is not that they should go in and sniff out a whole lot of information in one's journal, but that today, if a compensation is to be paid, they can have the opportunity to see your data. You won't be able to do that on this proposal. Then you yourself, as a person, have to get the information and send it to the pension fund or insurance company, where you want it to go through secure channels instead. We talk so much about security. As soon as it gets out of the public system or, for example, from the public system. a big company, that's what you're breaking security. As soon as you are safe with the Danish Parliament's mail system, but it may be a private person who has his or her own e-mail • sends his or her information to their mail system, it is suddenly open to many others to see it, rather than the secure system, where the insurance company might get the information directly from Health.dk, when he or she has given his or her consent, and consent is really important. Because there are just times when you have to tell some things that are in your file, but with the bill I hear they say that you can't do that anymore. Then it is the person himself, and it must also give some additional work. So I'm going to ask a lot of questions about it, because we want to have a look at if we can't change it. One of the other things in the bill is reminders of vaccination. We think it is very good to increase the opportunity to remind parents that it is time to vaccinate their children. But we also think it is very important that we should be able to renounce it here too if we do not want your child to be vaccinated or if your child has an immune disease which means that it should not be vaccinated. Because then it would be really annoying to get this reminder every single time. So, as such, we say yes to the draft law, but we have some questions that we will ask in relation to the treatment of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110101214	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blix. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110101221	The future is now and in the Left we welcome the future. We're gonna hug it, and we're gonna shape it. We need to take care of ourselves and each other. It can be done in many ways, so that both the individual and the community are taken into account. One of them is to ensure that our children are vaccinated against the known childhood diseases, and another is that we share our health data and ensure that our healthcare professionals have easy access to the data necessary for each of us to receive optimal health care if we become ill or need health care. All too often we hear stories about patients who fail in the treatment system because one hand does not know what the other does. We in the Left have a clear ambition to strengthen the close and coherent health care on all fronts, including when it comes to better use of health data. I am sincerely pleased that in June of last year all parties in the Danish Parliament reached a political agreement precisely on better use of health data: that we should ensure a better legal basis for digital cooperation, that we should ensure a clear framework for the use of national health data and that we should ensure a clear framework for data reporting in general practice. And last but not least, we need to create a legal basis for follow-up to the child vaccination programme. The four elements of the agreement now follow up with the draft law here and translate the political agreement into reality. Because regardless of whether a citizen needs a municipal effort, goes to the control of a general practitioner or gets immediate help at one of the new supersickhouses, yes, it is crucial in a modern and modern welfare society such as the Danish one that we ensure a digital infrastructure that responds to the need for safe storage of the Danes' sensitive health data, and where we use the technical possibilities for each of us to determine who should be able to see and what they should be able to see in our own medical records, and what a given health person, department or hospital, now just to mention a few examples, should have access to. We already know it from the common medical card, but with the bill here we now create the legal basis for relevant information about the individual patient to be displayed digitally in a comprehensive patient overview: agreements and treatment information, interventions and plans in an easily accessible and manageable form. All of this is essential for patients to receive the right treatment at the right time and, above all, for the right knowledge to be available to the right person at the right time. I have said this before, and I will probably say it many times: the left puts man before the system. Therefore, it is also crucial for us that it is as simple as possible to waive both the sharing and the obtaining of own health information, so that such a request can, for example, be communicated directly to the treatment site or directly to the Health Data Board. The linking of health care is a key task in a welfare society. Also, when it comes to the use and sharing of health information, there is a huge unexploited potential that can benefit all of us, because precisely sharing health data is a crucial factor for us to learn and develop new treatments and treatments. Today, the rules governing the sharing of data from administrative national registers are not clearly clear. But with the bill here it becomes easier in pseudonymized form to obtain comparable health information. As you know, the bill here consists of several elements, and the last part of the bill is the children's vaccination programme, and I would like to dwell on that a little. Sometimes we hear stories about children who, for example, die of measles not only far from the Danish borders, but also close to us. And that's totally unnecessary, because a vaccine could have saved a child's life. The WHO's objective that 95 percent should be vaccinated with the first two vaccines is also for us in the Left an important pointer mark. However, although more and more people are joining the national vaccination programme, we are not yet in line with the 95-percent target for the MFR vaccine. We must look after our children and we must take care of each other so that we have to tighten up and new initiatives must be put into the sea. With the bill here, we extend, among other things. the reminder scheme, so the Statens Serum Institut now gets the opportunity to send out a small reminder to all parents. It's a busy time we live in and the effect will hopefully show up when more children over time are vaccinated and it will also be on time. As I mentioned at the outset, we must look after each other, and with a vaccine you are looking after both your own child and all the other children as well. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110101703	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. Next in line, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110101715	Thank you for that, and thank you for coming back here and starting with a nice complicated bill. The bill arises from the agreement on better use of health data concluded this summer with Enhedslisten's participation. After all, we agree that there is a need to modernise health legislation in order to improve the possibility of digital sharing of health data, including requiring general practice to share relevant data with the rest of the healthcare system. To start with the uncomplicated issue of child vaccination, I would like to say that we believe it is a clear improvement that children's families can in future receive a reminder before the recommended time for child vaccinations. A broad endorsement of the child vaccination programme is important. We have gradually become accustomed to reminders of agreements about everything from hairstyles at times in the chiropractor. With the bill, we ensure that health care is more up-to-date, because it will now be possible to send reminders to parents so that children can leave in time. That is why we strongly support that part of the bill. Then it's more complicated with the digital collaboration. Today we also legislate on future opportunities for sharing patient data, and it seems to me that it is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten are rather sceptical about the collection and storage of sensitive personal data in large quantities. When we're in this deal anyway, it's about the urgent need for better sharing of patient data in health care. After all, the bill is about ensuring that relevant data is in the right hands at the right time. We fully support that objective. The staff spend far too long asking the same things and finding the right information because the journal systems do not work well enough together. Having said that, there are a number of issues which have been raised by various actors and which we believe should be addressed before we create a new common digital infrastructure. The consultations have given me the need, as a new health rapporteur, to get answers to a number of questions that appear to be unresolved, even after the consultation note. That is why, of course, we are still in the agreement, but it is crucial for us that a number of issues be clarified in the forthcoming committee procedure. It is essential that we get better sharing of data from general practice, but we also need to take the Danish Society for General Medicine seriously when they point out that there is a disagreement member's professional secrecy as the foundation for the medical patient relationship according to Section 40 of the Health Act and then the mandatory registration that the bill provides, with the provision for a comprehensive authorisation to the Minister of Health. That is why I would like to make sure that the Minister will guarantee that the patient will be given the opportunity to have confidential conversations with, for example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. the medical practitioner who is not introduced into the common digital infrastructure? It can, for example, be done. be an initial conversation about alcoholism or concerns about working life... conversations that may not lead to concrete action if there is a risk that something will appear in the common infrastructure that you have had such a conversation. I can also see in the consultation note that it is proposed that the design of the future reporting of structured data from, for example, general practice and from specialists must be carried out in cooperation with health professional organisations. For us, it is absolutely vital that these professional groups are properly involved in the design, so that the data exchange becomes meaningful and takes into account the confidentiality of the health professional and the patient. Where this bill is really going to be difficult, there is where it is about who should have access when and to what, especially because it opens up the possibility of many more people having access to read with, and because the bill is rather imprecise. The government has an expressed policy that we support, namely that there should be more transparency in what data is collected and for what purposes data may be used. The bill needs to be clarified, both in terms of patients' rights attached to each database, clarification of the duty of healthcare professionals to provide data for infrastructure, consent rights, blocking, existing and future logging possibilities and deletion rights. According to the consultation note, it has been made clear that patients must be able to opt out of obtaining information, but I am surprised that the many critical remarks that have been made about the lack of transparency in what data are collected about citizens have not been taken into account. It is unclear whether patients can oppose the inclusion of the information in the new infrastructure or whether it is only possible to close access after the information is registered and included in the system. And then I am actually surprised that the law is set to come into force before it is technically possible to use the solutions for accessing and sharing data controlled by the patient himself, as proposed by the bill. In addition, we also have a number of problems in relation to the possibility of deletion of data and some concerns in relation to the risks that may be too pointless in relation to the data that patients give up. This brings me to a final point which I believe we must deal with in committee before we feel quite confident on the part of the Enhedslisten in voting in favour of this bill. It's about the economy. It is clear from the draft law that the government believes that the proposal will not have public financial consequences. It is assumed that the costs can be met within the framework of funds already committed, because the digital solutions to support new structures have already been developed and financed. This also presupposes that the Danish Health Data Protection Agency is able to develop systems that ensure logging security and opt-outs, etc. Within the limits of the funds allocated. I think it sounds overly optimistic. We have seen with, for example. The health platform, what it means in terms of staff training costs and productivity losses when large IT systems are implemented. I simply lack documentation before I am convinced of the government's claim that this can be kept within the current framework. I look forward to discussing these questions in the further work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102236	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102239	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. After all, I stood on the platform a few moments ago and was delighted that all the parties of the Danish Parliament supported the agreement we have reached. Having heard the rapporteur's speech, I had such a little doubt, so I would just like to take the liberty of asking here whether the Enhedslisten still supports the political agreement which all the parties in the Folketing are behind and which the draft law here translates into concrete reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102311	Thank you. It is clear that we are behind the agreement we have reached. We are not running from an agreement we have reached, but that does not change the fact that, when we are implementing an agreement in concrete legislation, we have to make sure that what is intended in the agreement we have reached is also translated into the concrete legislative proposal. And it is in relation to that that we have a number of concerns that we would at least like to have discussed in committee and see if we can get clear answers to and get fenced in. But of course we support the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102338	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102340	Well, then, I just want to say thank you for a clear answer. We in the Left are also looking forward to the continued work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102346	It then made no comment, and so we thank the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Then it's Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102355	Thank you. Sharing data is extremely important for our survival and recovery, but it is also extremely important that we trust that data is processed securely and confidentially. Today, data can be shared via Common Medical Cards, medical records or even by telephone without being able to follow what data has been shared. And it is not really as safe as it can be, nor is it as useful and appropriate as it can be. There is a lot of bureaucracy about it, as the system is today. Therefore, this proposal will combine the way data is shared into a digital infrastructure. This means, at the same time, that it will be less bureaucratic and that it will be easier to share the data so that doctors can use other healthcare professionals to collect these data and pass them on; it can be healthcare professionals, nurses or medical secretaries. It is an appropriate division of labour, with less bureaucracy, which makes it all simpler. What we need to keep in mind is that it is still illegal if health professionals without having a legal basis for it look at the data. And what is also important is that there must still be security and a firm framework for consent, and that one can waive the disclosure of one's data. In addition, there will be an opportunity for patients to see for themselves in the records. You can see when others have gone in and looked into the file: Who's seen my file? Why? Was there any reason for this, or is it something that I can respond to, appeal or complain about? At the same time, it is important that children receive the recommended vaccines at the recommended times, and therefore, with this bill, there will also be increased opportunities for reminders to be sent out to all parents about the child vaccines. This all makes great sense and is in the interest of all of us, and the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102632	Thank you to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110102639	Thank you. The alternative is part of the agreement which all the parties have concluded and which is the basis for this proposal. We have seen before that it may be difficult to translate an agreement that has been made into legislation, and that is also one of our concerns in connection with this legislative proposal. And we share some of the concerns, or indeed all the concerns, which have also been outlined by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur before. We recognise the background to the draft law, namely that health professionals in municipalities and regions and in general practice spend unnecessary time and unnecessary resources on obtaining information, and that there may be a lack of coherence in the process, which can be experienced by patients and relatives as problematic. That is why we are also included in the agreement, because we want health care to be able to rely on the right information on the individual patient, for example. We also have a desire to have an effective healthcare system where knowledge and information are easy to access across healthcare professionals, but we therefore have some reservations and concerns in line with those outlined by Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I have also looked at the Danish Society for General Medicine's hearing answer, where they have a view on it. It is acting, for example. on confidentiality, and they say, for example:: Do we want a health service based on autonomy and self-determination, with professional secrecy and the right to confidentiality? Or do we want a healthcare system where focus is on central data maximization and tight state control and retail management of patient treatment via decision support and algorithms? So we've been looking at some of these hearing answers, and we're also worried that there may be some problems in this bill. The Ethical Council also has some concerns that we will have this superhealth archive, which we must not be blind to can not necessarily be abused now, but later it can be used for some purposes that are unacceptable. Of course, we still believe, as we did when we concluded the agreement, that it is good to strengthen the coherence and information that exist and that it is essential that there is confidence that you have the information you need in the health care system, but that this should not be at the expense of, as the Danish Nurse Council says, the relationship of trust between citizens and health professionals. We are, of course, still missing from the agreement, but we have some reservations, and we believe that if we go ahead with the legislative proposal, as we are doing, then we must have specified and fleshed out and looked at some specific issues that we find problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110103007	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110103019	Thank you. We have a great strength in Denmark that we have such good health data, and it is important that the systems can talk, that we can share the information, but also that they are managed. That is why it is also a grotesque situation which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned when you, as a patient, find out: I do not see what has happened in the other place because it is in another system that I cannot go in and look into. And somewhere it's a bit crazy that it's still the reality here in 2019, and that's why we in the Radical Left are happy that we've been involved in making the agreement that this bill is a coinage of, and that should make it easier to share data. That is why we in the Radical Left are fully in agreement with the principles contained in this bill. At the same time, it is also very technical and I am not helped by the fact that I myself was on maternity leave, while the rest of you were negotiating into the details, so there are two things that I would like to learn a little bit more from in committee. One is for the technical part, because I think that when you look beyond some of the IT systems we have, and when you see how the Health Platform, for example. has caused very serious problems for employees that one has to ask what it is then for a learning that has been done in the Ministry and what it is we are doing to ensure that we do not now come up with a system that looks very fine on paper but does not work in reality. That's one part. The second part is: How much does it cost? I am in favour, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said, of the government assuming that this is not going to be very expensive in this way, but that is also connected with the way in which the whole of the technical is designed. I think that it is very relevant to have the matter delved into, as to what conditions the government is also laying down, because, of course, it is important for the situation at a time when my experience is that there is already too much running in some places and there is a lack of resources and time. It does of course matter when you set things in motion that we also have control that it will not be a burden for the employees who have to work with it. So I hope that we can learn a little more about these two things during the committee procedure. In relation to the second part of the bill, which deals with reminders to child vaccinations, I would just like to say as a mother: that is so good. I myself am one of those who is right now standing on my two do-list, that I have to order that 15-month vaccine, and I think I can say on behalf of all other parents that it would actually be very nice that you just get a message so you get it done in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110103317	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Then we go to Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110103323	Thank you. The purpose of the bill here is to support better digital cooperation, which facilitates the sharing of relevant information about the patient's progress between the healthcare professionals who are receiving the patient's treatment. That's both right and good. In order to support a coherent patient cycle, a high degree of knowledge sharing between health care sectors is needed. The citizen should be able to expect the health care professionals to know the information relevant to the treatment, including: journal information on test responses and current medicine and other practical information needed to create security and provide the experience of a coherent health care system. At the same time, it has been important for SF that the citizen should be able to obtain an overview of the treatments received and the agreements made with the health care system and that the patient should have an influence on who should have access to health data, and that the patient should be given an insight into who is using the patient's health data, among other things. by logging. The SF backs up the good intentions of an agreement on the digitalisation of health care, which of course we are also involved in. Having said that, however, I believe that the draft law has some shortcomings in relation to the agreement we have reached. Unfortunately, this is also evident from the consultation answers that we have received on the proposal. The question of costs, for example, is referred to the economic negotiations between the government and the regions and municipalities, but it is of course crucial how much this bill will be. And perhaps the Minister can also explain why the private sector should supposedly be completely exempted from payment. The second big question is about technology. Technology is not necessarily something that has to be discussed in a legislative proposal, but yet the draft law has also raised some questions here. The system requirement is that digitalisation should be able to play together with existing platforms in the regions and municipalities, such as the Health Platform and the electronic health record. It must be compared with the fact that the Minister said only last week that there are major security challenges in our current systems, challenges which the Minister also addresses to the regions. In fact, I hope that the Minister will consider how increased security in existing systems can be included in relation to this bill, because it must be assumed that there is a high cost to both. It is also right to think that the Minister is responsible for the solution of both, including ensuring that the regions' necessary economic priorities are not an obstacle to the overall priority of important security. Finally, it is important for me to stress that the world will hardly end because tomorrow we will not have a new digital system in which doctors and other health professionals can be updated with written information about the individual patient. I think it is important to stress here that it is unlikely that written data can replace the important conversation with the patient, who is usually quite well informed about his own situation. It is in the health sector, as in all other aspects of life, that what we have read can often be challenged by the reality that we face. As I said, the SF backs the agreement we have reached, but the implementation of the agreement still leaves a number of unanswered questions, also following on from the consultation responses received. In addition to those already mentioned, I will also allow myself to submit a number of written questions to the committee, and in view of the lateness of the time, I shall confine myself to asking them as written questions. There is another important element in this proposal, namely the proposal on child vaccination programmes. It also makes very good sense, but, I think, it leaves a number of questions about costs and privacy, just as digitalisation does. SF supports the good aim of ensuring a high level of vaccination that can protect us from diseases, but at the same time we must ensure a high level of transparency in relation to how personal data are used for other and more than the health of the individual. In this context, I would also ask the Minister to explain the scope of the Minister's powers to determine payment, etc. in relation to the current rules and agreements. With these words, I should just like to emphasise once again that the SF supports the agreement we have concluded, but will ask some questions which we think it makes sense to clarify in a committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110103811	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then it's mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110103819	I come up the stairs a little lame, because I have also frequented the health care system. But speaking of digital cooperation, I would like to say that this is an extremely important part. This applies to all areas, but especially to health. The legislative proposal that we are now examining aims to support better digital cooperation, in which healthcare professionals will more easily have access to and the opportunity to share relevant information about patients' cross-health practices. Today health professionals in municipalities and regions and general practice spend a lot of unnecessary time and resources collecting information from each other or, as in my case, when I just had my foot operated after an old football injury and then had to do some rehabilitation at a physiotherapist. I was here on Monday, and I'm gonna tell him, why don't you just draw this information? No, he couldn't. I can go in and see my own health data; there I can draw all the information there is about the operation, and I must then print it out and go down and deliver it to him. This is totally inappropriate in this digital age, so we on the Conservative side are very much looking forward to this bill becoming a reality, so that you can share these things across sectors and so that you can reach, for example. Which in my case is going to physiotherapist or chiropractor or anything else, they can just pull it directly. Digital cooperation is important for patients, and that is what this is about. It is the patient who must be in focus here, and it must be easy. Of course, safety must also be at its top, and we do believe that once we have dealt with this and talked about it in committee, we will have a very good basis for drawing up a joint legislative proposal. The last part of the bill, as several have also mentioned, is about the possibility of sending reminders to parents about recommended child vaccinations, again like you anywhere else, for example. is going to a physical therapist or something, the day before gets a reminder that you have to remember it. Here, there is the possibility that parents will be reminded in good time that they should remember that their child should be vaccinated for it or that. We really think it will be something that can benefit parents and children to a large extent. Conservatives support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110104038	Thank you, sir. Erik Lund. So, actually, it's the minister we need to hear now. So here you go to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110104046	Thank you for the debate and thank you for the good cooperation on the political agreement we have made on the legislative proposal we are discussing today. There is no doubt that Denmark is a pioneering country in terms of digitisation and use of health data for the benefit of patients in the Danish healthcare system, and that is how it should remain. Today, all health care professionals work with health data in digital systems, and this has created better and safer treatment, but it must also be said that we are far from achieving our goal. That is precisely why we have reached an agreement, and that is precisely why we are discussing the legislative proposal today. Unfortunately, patients still experience a lack of coherence in treatment courses and a repeat of oneself over and over again because relevant information about one's treatment has not been passed on. In addition, it may be difficult to get an overview of what has happened or has to happen along the way, and we know that it creates frustration and also sometimes insecurity for patients and relatives. At the same time, we know that health professionals in the municipalities and regions, and also in general practice, spend excessive amounts of time collecting information from each other about patients who are currently being treated. You simply hang on the phone to obtain information. That time can be better spent and better spent in good patient care. That is why I am also pleased that, across all the parties in the Folketing this summer, we reached a political agreement on better use of health data. The draft law we are discussing today translates that agreement into reality. The aim of the draft law is to facilitate the sharing of relevant information on the patient's progress between the healthcare professionals who receive it. It is basically about ensuring that the right knowledge is in the right hands at the right time for the benefit of the patient. At the same time, when we make it easier to share health information, it is essential that data security is in order and that this is done with respect for the individual's right to privacy and privacy. We as people are different, and we also have different wishes and needs. The draft law therefore makes it easier for citizens to have an overview and to determine who has access to their health information for the purposes of patient care. The draft law contains a number of elements which, overall, contribute to the much-needed modernisation of the Health Act. And if I'm going to give a concrete example, I could take the City of Esbjerg. There is a team of nurses handling patients with acute and complex treatment courses across municipal home care and hospital emergency reception. The nurses' work has created a lot more coherence for the patients in these transitions between the municipality and the hospital. But in order to do their job today, nurses have to run around with two computer systems, physically with two computers in their cars and two different IT systems, because the municipality and the hospital are not allowed to share relevant data about the patient today. So when you as a nurse drive around in the emergency, you first have to log into one system and then into the other system if you want the overall overview. It doesn't make sense, it's not good enough, and that's one of them. Some of the things this bill is changing. The legislation must therefore support the way in which health professionals work together to treat patients, and it must also ensure that data is in the right hands at the right time. That is why we are also proposing the creation of a common digital infrastructure that gathers and exhibits relevant information about patients in a patient overview across healthcare. The patient overview can be accessed both by the healthcare professionals who have the patient in the treatment and by the patient himself. This corresponds to the solution we know from the common medical card. That is also part of the answer to the economy, to which questions have been asked, and to which I would of course like to reply in writing, namely that a great deal of the digital infrastructure we already know from the common medical card when it comes to how the solutions should look. So it is not a question of finding completely new systems. It is a question of expanding and building on some of the digital solutions that we already have and which work across healthcare, for example. the common medical card. At the same time, we make it easier for citizens to gain insight into, and also to control, who has access to information at the patient's expense. For example, if you go to www.health.dk today, you will already be able to refrain from obtaining your health information at the patient's expense. That is why there is no question of us putting anything into effect until, as a citizen, we have that opportunity. It is part of the agreement that it must, of course, be present, also in order to ensure the parallelity that must exist in making more digital solutions, but also gives the individual patient and citizen more of its own right and ability to manage who should have access to one's health data. That means, for example, that we have to do something about it. can already enter via patient overview and private-check information. It may be in relation to a particular course of treatment, and it may be in a certain period of time, and it may also be possible to prevent certain health professionals from having access to your information. It will therefore be possible to block, for specific groups or specific individuals, those who do not have access to information. On health.dk, you will also be able to see who has accessed your data in the so-called log viewing, and it is also an important part of the security for the individual who has to be present, because you have to have the assurance, as we have also spoken about politically, that no one has improper access to your data. Another corner we are proposing to modernise with the legislative proposal is the rules on access for healthcare professionals to obtain information from electronic systems such as the Internet. patient records when treating a patient. Today, different rules apply to which information from e.g. health records of different types of healthcare professionals must be made available, and we must just say that the legislation has not been followed over time, and that more health professionals and professional organisations have long and continuously stated with patient organisations that the rules are difficult to administer and difficult to understand. Therefore, we now say that the starting point is that if you are a healthcare professional and need information as part of a current patient treatment, you must have access to them unless, as I said, the citizen himself has administered that it should be different. At the same time, we also allow health professionals to be able to take advantage of technical assistance from, for example, health professionals. a secretary when they obtain information for quality work. It would be a criminal offence, as it is today, both for health professionals and for other persons to obtain information improperly. And that is also one of the points we have made in the comments on the draft law on the basis of the hearing, but, as the consultation note also shows, we have also had a political discussion to emphasise the part which is about ensuring that it is known that there are consequences if the digital opportunities that exist are improperly used in order to gain access. With the bill, we also propose that doctors can use information on previous patients' health courses to treat a patient with a similar disease. This may be in order to provide a better basis for deciding on the treatment to be offered to a patient or to be able to make the correct diagnosis quickly. It is, of course, crucial that the use of information about other patients is obtained with respect for the individual's right to confidentiality. We therefore do not intend to make this possible until we are absolutely sure that the processing of the data can take place in pseudonymised form, so that the information cannot immediately lead back to the patients, but at the same time we ensure better quality development in our departments, because the lessons from a patient progression should benefit future patients, but of course you do not know that it is Mrs Jensen, but you know what experience and knowledge you have gained along the way. When we talk about improving the possibility of exchanging information in the health care sector, we do not avoid general practice either. And that is also one of the focal points of the draft law and also of our political agreement. We want the general practice and specialist practice sector to play a stronger role in the health care sector of the future, and it will also be at the heart of the government's future health reform. And that also means that, with the legislative proposal we are discussing today, we are strengthening cooperation across municipal care, the practice sector and the hospital, so that we can also intensify it in the years to come. And I think that we can all agree, hopefully, that we owe it to patients that they can expect a more coherent treatment in the years to come. When more tasks are to be carried out by the general practitioner or in a municipal health centre, it is essential that we also have better knowledge of the part of the patient's progress carried out in the practical sector. With the legislative proposal, we propose that the practice sector should better share relevant structured data and information with the rest of the healthcare sector. It can, for example, be done. be information on diagnoses, benefits for cancer patients and runners, which are attended by both the general practitioner and the hospital and may also participate in a rehabilitation course at the municipality. I would like to stress that this is also one of the things we have spent a great deal of time on, both jointly in the political debate, but also on the basis of some of the consultation answers received, where we have made some tightenings in the bill afterwards, as is also shown in the consultation note • that information of no relevance to the patient's continued treatment and which has been given to the doctor in confidence, information which, for example, is not relevant to the patient's continued treatment. has emerged during a conversation about psychosocial conditions or other matters, of course must remain confidential. What we are talking about is the sharing of structured data that is relevant to the further course of treatment. Finally, the draft law proposes to extend the possibility of sending reminders to parents on recommended child vaccinations to ensure a high vaccination connection. Fortunately, in recent years, support for the child vaccination programme has improved, among other things. because letters are sent out today to the parents, which are similar to the vaccinations. However, we think that we need to go further and also ensure that the reminders do not come until a few months late, but in such a way comes, so you remember that it is now time to order a time for vaccination. Therefore, with the bill it will be possible for the Statens Serum Institute to send reminders before the time of a recommended child vaccination. And I hope that this will help to improve the connection to the child vaccination programme, because ultimately it also means something to ensure that we do not have widespread diseases that we could prevent. Finally, I would like to reply to one of the questions which, among other things, have been raised. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party made a reference to the question that has come from Insurance & Pension and, of course, I would also like to reply to it in writing to the committee, but where I have already shared with the rapporteurs the answer I have sent to Insurance & Pension. Because it seems to me that there is a misconception of what the bill is about and what it is about. In other words, the purpose and scope of the draft law, which I have also replied to Insurance & Pension, suggests that it relates only to patient treatment and therefore not to secondary purposes. That is one of the things we have been very clear about, including in our political agreement, in other words that it is the patient that is at the heart. It's not sending information to the police or sending information to insurance companies or anything else. Those are the secondary purposes. And the purpose limitation is, as the draft law states, in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation, which also allows for the possibility of laying down specific conditions and restrictions on the processing of health data at national level. But that is the purpose constraints that do not change the fact that, like today, insurance and pension companies, for example. In the case of damages cases, of course, the relevant data relating to a course of treatment will also have to be available to them in the future. And that is why I have also replied to Insurance & Pension that the draft law does not change the current access of insurance and pension companies to health information, so the underlying source systems in relation to the data to be provided to them. But with this bill we do not want to give insurance companies direct access, so to speak, to going into the infrastructure and even being able to mess around and take data. But, of course, you must be able to continue to export relevant data in a replacement case so that they can be used to provide information about the patient's circumstances. And, of course, I am happy to reply to that in writing, but I think it is important to bear in mind what is secondary purposes when we talk about people's sensitive data and then what is the primary purpose, namely patient treatment. However, as I said, I am of course making myself available for all the questions that are there. I can hear that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has also announced some, and I hope that in this way we will be able to get the information on a good basis so that we can hopefully get the legislative proposal to work in reality. For that is what is needed, both for patients' sake, but also in order to ensure more modern and proper working conditions for our employees, so that you do not have to log into two systems, or that, if you lack data, you have to call around because you do not know what has happened in the past in a patient's course. So thank you for the good comments of the rapporteurs in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105359	There's just a few more. The first is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105403	Thank you. I can also take this opportunity to thank you for a fine course of negotiations. I think that we have also had a debate on many of the dilemmas which, of course, are also linked to the digitalisation of health data. I was also listening to the Minister say that it is only the sharing of structured data that is involved. This also means that we still have a normal journal system. It may be the electronic health record and another system where relevant information about treatment etc. is shared. In order to avoid updating in two systems, these systems must be able to talk. That is why I would just like to ask what the Minister said last week about our security in the systems we have. Does it not just make sense to try to address the security issues that the Minister also cared about last week, to this proposal, so that we do not have to create systems to create systems then to create systems? So, when they're supposed to be able to talk, I just can't see anything but that it might make sense to try to think these problems together at once. Could that be imagined, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105519	Now the questioner refers to the sectoral strategy on health in the field of cybersecurity that we presented last week and which has been agreed with the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions, and the sectoral strategy is precisely that whatever you do, so to speak, you always have to think cybersecurity into it. This also means, of course, that we now have a per. On February 1st transition to a new LPR3 system, there is also thought of cybersecurity and a stronger protection. When we create new systems, we constantly think of cybersecurity and increased protection as a dimension of creating the systems. It is also clear from our digitisation strategy and from our health data strategy that it is, of course, something that has to lie underlying integrated everywhere. So I fully agree with the rapporteur on this, and this is also part of the changes we are going to make here, because it is also basically about how we think when we make decisions forward-looking, whether it is in relation to the purchase of new IT systems or the purchase of medical devices, for example. large scanners who also store personal data: How is it ensured that it does not become a source of vulnerability to the hackers who can compromise the security that should be around our sensitive health care information?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105632	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105634	However, I noted in the Minister's reply to the public last week that the Minister addressed these security problems to the regions because they are their systems. They made these systems themselves. And I think that if you create common systems, you could imagine that there are also special costs associated with them being able to talk with many different systems in our country. You have different journal systems in the Capital Region and Region of Zealand compared to what you have in Jutland. I would just like to ask whether the Minister is considering or discussing with the regions and municipalities about perhaps having a common digital system that will only solve the problems once.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105718	Yeah, that would be nice. But it can be said that the regions have their own self-determination to have chosen to purchase different systems and not necessarily always to cooperate integratedly, and we could have a longer talk about this either in relation to this bill or in general, because there is room for really great improvement. What can be said in the cybersecurity strategy is not just about assigning something to the responsibilities of the regions. That's not what I did last week either. It is a shared responsibility. When we create an overall sectoral strategy for cybersecurity in relation to health care, which integrates both what is in the municipalities, what is in the regions and what is at state level, it is because our systems are also integrated, but there is also something that is our responsibility. In other words, when the regions buy new medical equipment, it is important to be aware that, for example, there is a need for a new approach to medical equipment. in Norway have actually been scandal cases where large scanners have bottled information. This is something you have to be aware of, even when you have a purchasing strategy, as well as having to have a strategy to replace old, outdated systems. It is also like some of the points and dressing the employees properly. Some of it is decentralized, some of it is a shared responsibility in ensuring better cyber protection of our overall health care in Denmark, so we avoid the attacks that can, of course, paralyse a healthcare system and which we have unfortunately seen have also hit a British healthcare system with the WannaCryattack.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105835	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105838	Thank you. I would like to start by signing that the Minister for Health informs us that there will continue to be a confidential space in the relationship between patient and doctor where data will not necessarily be shared. For us, the principle that it is the patient who has his own data is absolutely crucial, and so I would like to ask a question. I am aware that it has been possible to block data in relation to specific healthcare professionals, specific periods or departments, but could it not also be possible to introduce the possibility of blocking specific data? Well, you can have a conversation where you really want parts of the conversation to be shared, but where there can then be certain information that you don't want to be shared. Shouldn't you have an opportunity as a patient to secure that kind of barrier? In the same context, I would like to know whether it would not be possible to say that as a patient you could also create a full barrier to sharing data, that is to say that you simply do not want to share data because you want to keep it as part of your privacy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110105940	Yes, but there is no doubt about that, and we have also discussed this on an ongoing basis that the more advanced our systems become, compared to the fact that privacy by design solutions can really be created, so that you can say yes and no to more and more, the more options you get. Already today there are a large number of options for health.dk, which will also mean something for citizens' opportunities. This also means that if there are whole courses of treatment I have heard some examples of venereal disease or other diseases that you may not want to be so far ahead, then there is an opportunity, precisely in relation to the information, to be able to go in and say that it does not concern anyone in general or that it does not concern any specific health care professionals, and that possibility must be there. On the other hand, we have discussed it politically and made it very clear, and it is also part of the political agreement that it should not be the case that you can find yourself in a situation where the ambulance staff cannot access data because you have forgotten to say a positive thing in a particular area. It must be the case that the right data must be in the right hands at the right time. That's what saves lives. Seconds may be crucial if you actually know that a diabetic patient falls with a blood sugar that is too low. This is not necessarily known today, because it is some of the data that today lies with our own doctor and that has not necessarily been shared and put into the records. It can be crucial if you survive if you fall on the street and professional help comes to the place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110110114	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110110128	We'll open the ball with mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110110140	Thank you for that. I'll dance up on the platform. It is true, as the President says, that this bill is about laser processing when tattoos are to be removed. In other words, the bill is about consumers, about citizens, about their safety, about their desire to remove tattoos. After all, consumers and citizens do things in their lives that sometimes result in them becoming patients. It is incredibly popular in the Western world to have tattoos made these years, and if you imagine that you can register the street environment where you live, then you will see that there are a lot of tattoo shops shooting up. One store can go into and get its tattoos made, and for that store rules and demands have actually been made politically by us, for example about which dyes can be used and what hygiene should be used when making tattoos. Next to it there is a store where those who have been tattooed and have regretted it can go in and say: I have regretted having this tattoo done, so I would like it removed. For those shops, we have not made political demands and regulations on how to do this. It's about the bill. One of the methods by which tattoos are removed is laser processing, and laser processing can sound as if it is just something you drive across the skin and that there are no risks to it. It's just not like that. In fact, both wounds and blistering can occur, scar tissue can be formed afterwards, infections can occur, and serious burns can occur. The companies that do this are private companies; this has nothing to do with public health services. It is private companies that practice tattoos removal, and it is now that this bill makes some demands on them. The first requirement expressed by the draft law is that there should be a minimum of six weeks between laser treatments. The labelling, safety and performance requirements for the technical equipment, medical equipment used are also laid down. There is a third requirement that there are things that must be documented in compliance with just such requirements. Then the bill explains that the Patient Safety Agency can issue a ban if companies that use laser to remove tattoos do not comply with the exact requirements listed here. We in the Social Democratic Party think it is good for consumers. In the same way, we think it is good that, just as there are demands on how tattooers should handle hygiene, dyes and other things, there are also requirements in relation to those companies that remove tattoos. We can predict that many will regret the many tattoos being made at the moment, and that is why it is important that we, as a society, also set up a regulatory framework that allows consumers to have good safety. We support the bill. But it is rare when I read the answers to the hearings that I see them being so critical and so incomprehensible, and they leave me as the health rapporteur with the impression that there is something here that has not been done well enough. That is why I would also like to say to the Minister that we have to try to look at some of the critical consultation answers that have been given in the run-up to the third reading of this bill. Some institutions, such as the Danish Dermatological Society, Danske Regions and others, have used very big words to say that they are incomprehensible to the content of the bill on several points, and here we must try to see whether we can go a step further towards clarifying it. Then I should just like to say to the Minister that we actually have a social democratic wish, and that is that we always think it is good that it obliges politicians who have helped to make the laws that we also ensure that they are evaluated. So we would very much like to have an audit or evaluation clause written into the bill we are discussing here today about an evaluation after 2 or 3 years, so that we can see how the law has gone. Finally, however, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party considers this to be a step in the right direction, and that is why we are also in favour of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110110617	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110110624	After all, the Danish People's Party has been working for many years to ensure proper legislation on the tattoo industry, even when the tattoos have to be removed. We are surprised that a proposal is now being made here, which is not really very important for what the debate is actually concentrating on. I am well aware that the Minister has been in a difficult situation, because that started with when we talked about the removal of tattoos, that only dermatologists had to remove tattoos. We thought that was a little far to go. We know that there are very many good cosmetologists who have been out taking an education abroad and got a certificate that they know something about removing tattoos with lasers. We know that there are a lot of tattooists who have mastered and learned how to tattoo, but also how to remove tattoos. They have an education in it; they know something about it. This proposal is about which machine to use after 2030; it's about how long it has to go between using a laser treatment. That is what this is all about. There is no supervision, there is no redress, there is no education, there is nothing else. You can just see what the answers to the hearings say, and here I am in complete agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Flemming Møller Mortensen in that they also give a hint that one wonders a little about the legislation. As it says, after this bill has been passed, people can actually go out and buy a laser on Wish or on the gray market, or where it can be, which is not approved anywhere, and then until 2030 they can settle down and remove tattoos, because that is where the change has to go. Of course we can support the proposal, but we can also say whether it is not very much to do with it, in other words to make a legislative proposal that there should be approved machines and that laser processing should be carried out at six weeks intervals. We will, of course, ask some questions and we would like to see the legislative proposal tightened up. I hope that there are more people who might be able to support the idea of seeing a minimum level of training in those who practice the removal of laser tattoos. At the same time, we are also surprised that other ways of removing tattoos are not mentioned at all, for example. with acid. There have been programs about how people have been disfigured. That's why we're gonna ask questions about who we see the most damage to, because here people pay for the removal of tattoos themselves. But when it comes to the destruction of skin and tissue and you need treatment, you have to get into the Danish health care system, which is paid by taxpayers. So we are going to ask some questions and we are hoping that we can tighten up the legislation a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110110944	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110110951	Today, we are dealing first with a legislative proposal aimed at improving patient safety in an area which is currently completely unregulated. These are people who have their laser tattoo removed, who are not protected by any set of rules for that treatment. Today it is the case that anyone can remove tattoo using laser without meeting any requirements. And that puts patient safety at risk. For us in the Left, the safety and safety of patients in the field of treatment is a crucial parameter in a strong health care system. At present, there are no methods to remove tattoos that are completely free from health risks. We need to get to work to create the best possible security, because the truth is that many Danes choose to get a tattoo and that many Danes regret their tattoo. Unfortunately, we have seen several examples of the failure of treatments for the removal of tattoos. We have seen people who, after treatments, have suffered severe burns and wounds, for example. is due to the fact that the interval between treatments is too short or the equipment used during treatment. For me and for us in the Left, it is obvious that, in order to increase patient safety, we are now implementing regulation, just as we are regulating all other types or forms of treatment. In addition, I hope that, now that we are making increased demands on the industry and increasing patient safety, the credibility of the industry will also increase, so that more people will be safe in the future by having their tattoos removed. The bill consists of three parts: firstly, companies that today remove laser tattoos must ensure that at least 6 weeks pass between each treatment, and this must be done, among other things. ensure that the risk of developing permanent scars is minimised so as not to suffer injury from treatment. Secondly, companies that remove laser tattoos must ensure that the lasers used in the treatment comply with the new EU regulation on medical devices, which will enter into force in May 2020. That part of the bill must ensure that we in Denmark comply with EU legislation, while at the same time only lasers of a certain quality and standard can be used to remove tattoos. The third and final part of the draft law requires companies to be able to demonstrate that they comply with the requirements laid down. In other words, the companies that remove laser tattoos must be able to demonstrate that between each laser treatment on the same patient there is a minimum of 6 weeks and that their equipment meets the standards laid down by the EU regulation on medical devices. The proposal also provides for sanctioning powers for the Patient Safety Agency. Specifically, this means that the Patient Safety Agency may impose a ban on the removal of tattoos for shorter or longer periods if a company fails to meet the required requirements. In the event of a breach of a possible prohibition, the company must be able to be reported to the police. With the bill here, we are taking an important step towards increased patient safety in a previously very poorly regulated sector. For the sake of patients, i.e. the many who, for one reason or another, want to have a laser tattoo removed, we have now taken an important step, and we welcome that in the Left. The Left can support the proposal as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110111319	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks, so we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110111331	This bill is about regulating an area that is not currently regulated, namely the removal of tattoos. Therefore, it was also with some confidence that one could throw oneself over the bill, despite the fact that it came from the government, as it could almost only be an improvement. But even here the government manages to disappoint expectations. When you read the hearing answers from the tattoo clinic at Bispebjerg Hospital, the Danish Dermatological Society and the Consumer Council Think, it raises a number of justified criticisms. It is incomprehensible that the Tattoo Removal Act is not harmonised in relation to the Tattoo Act of 31 May 2018, which has a wide range of requirements for tattoo clinics. It would have been obvious to have this draft law follow the same template and thus regulate the area in a much more reassuring way. The removal of laser tattoos can be risky and endanger both users of the equipment and those who need to have a tattoo removed. Therefore, there should be a clear training requirement for staff, as well as access to redress for customers. There is a lack of clear and clear control of both the clinics and the equipment. The CE marking is far from providing the necessary safety and it is insufficient for the current equipment to continue to be used until 2030. Knowing how fast technological developments are taking place, including with regard to laser equipment, it is incomprehensible to allow existing equipment to be used until 2030. As several consultation parties indicate, there is a clear discrepancy between the demands for rights in the clinics that are medically run and those driven by practitioners without formal training. The Ministry itself writes in the consultation note that among other things: the requirement laid down in Section 17 of the Certificate Act, under which an authorised health professional is required to exercise care and conscientiousness in the course of his activity and to act in accordance with the generally accepted professional standard in the field at all times. In addition, an authorised healthcare professional is obliged to observe the requirements set out in Section 3 of the Health Act on the legal status of patients, including requirements for obtaining informed consent, professional secrecy, disclosure and obtaining health information, etc. On the other hand, when it comes to a practitioner without formal training, it is the Ministry's opinion that it must be assumed that the consumer and the company have entered into a dialogue prior to the removal of the tattoo and that the consumer has given his consent to the removal of the tattoo by laser. I have to say to the President, before I read the last, that my watch does not work, so I have no idea how much time remains. First Vice-President: 2 minutes). Thank you. When the removal of a tattoo is carried out by an authorised healthcare professional, there are a large number of requirements that ensure patient safety, but if it is done by a person without training, it is sufficient to assume that there has been a dialogue. To put it mildly, it seems ill-thought out. But perhaps the hearing answer shows why the draft law is so laxly drafted, for the Minister writes on several occasions to explain that the criticism is not met, that the Ministry considers that the proposed requirements for removal of tattoo reduce the health risks associated with the removal of laser tattoo. With the bill, the Ministry sought a balance between the risk associated with the removal of laser tattoo and the burden imposed on the industry by regulation. A balance between patient safety and the burden on the industry hm! The consultations reveal with all due clarity that the balance is clearly overweight in relation to the industry at the expense of patient safety, and we in the Enhedslisten do not agree with that. When we have to vote in favour of the proposal, despite all the shortcomings, it is for the sole reason that, after all, it is an improvement from the fact that the area is not regulated at all, but I would urge the Minister very strongly that we have an evaluation of the law after one year, so that we can assess the impact, both positive and negative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110111755	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. In fact, there were still 40 seconds left! There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110111808	Thank you. In Denmark, many people have regretted their tattoos and want them removed. The reasons why they want them removed can be many, and laser treatment can help meet their desire to have their tattoos removed. It is, of course, gratifying for those who have regretted their tattoos that this treatment is available. However, the treatment does not seem to be completely free from health risks, and at present there is no regulation in the area of laser tattoos removal. That is why the government is putting in a patient protection effort in this area, and in this respect I believe that the bill is precisely protecting patients, among other things. with requirements for laser equipment so that you are sure that the laser equipment is approved and in order. The Liberal Alliance can thus support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110111859	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110111917	Thank you. In the alternative, we are pleased that the government has taken a small step in regulating a market that can be difficult for citizens to see through. However, we, together with virtually all the consultation parties, are sorry that the proposal does not go far enough. We also find it a pity that the consultation answers have copied, you might say, something in relation to some answers to the consultation parties, and we agree with the Consumer Council. Think that all obsolete equipment should be phased out, as they write, on 20 May 2020, which is the first deadline for the EU regulation, and that it is incomprehensible that a deadline should be proposed in 2030 in this area. It's from the consultation note. We also agree with the Medical Society and the Medical Association that the removal of laser tattoo falls within the definition of cosmetic treatment and that it should be regulated accordingly. We are not immediately in favour of the proposal because we do not think it goes far enough, and we are missing some points which I would like to mention here: that obsolete and inappropriate equipment should be phased out as soon as possible; that laser treatment should follow international guidelines; that attention should be paid to professionalism and patient safety; that training requirements should be introduced in the conduct of laser treatment; that there should be requirements for informed consent when performing laser treatment. That is our position, so we are not positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112118	Thank you. This is one of those places where it is a little strange, because we have taken responsibility politically for making demands in connection with getting a tattoo done, but that we have still not properly regulated the area in connection with having a tattoo removed. That is why it makes sense for us to look at it now. Then we can discuss whether the government will do enough, because what is in the proposal here, as the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, is only the part about how long it has to take between laser processing and then some requirements for safety itself. However, as all other opposition parties have mentioned, this draft law contains a large number of consultation answers which point to things that would be better to do, and I therefore think it would be a good thing if the Minister were to consider whether she would not like to invite all of us opposition parties over, because then it could be that we could make the bill better together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112230	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112235	Thank you. The SF supports the proposal for a law on the removal of laser tattoos, which, in turn, I would also call the world's smallest proposal, which I have ever been involved in dealing with to date. Small improvements are also right, of course they are, but I am also prepared, as many others have already said, to challenge the level of ambition for the benefit of patients and for the benefit of the citizens who should benefit from this proposal. So I also hope that in committee we can become a little more ambitious when it comes to thinking in terms of security and solutions, which can actually also be used for something sensible when people regret having a tattoo done and want it removed again. In those words, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112339	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112344	The removal of tattoos using lasers is not without health risks. It can cause serious skin damage such as incineration, wound and bladder formation and scar tissue, and today we have no regulation in this area. The aim of the bill is to lay down some requirements for the companies that carry out the removal of laser tattoos. For example, the legislative proposal ensures that a minimum of 6 weeks must be allowed between each laser treatment and the use of lasers that meet certain labelling, safety and performance requirements. Companies must also demonstrate their compliance with the requirements and, if they do not meet the requirements, the Patient Safety Management Board will be able to issue a ban on the removal of laser tattoos and, in the utmost consequence, it may also lead to police reporting. Conservatives think this is a very good bill and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112446	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112456	Thank you for your comments on the bill. There is no doubt that the removal of laser tattoo is a potent treatment which can cause serious skin damage, and therefore it is not without health risks to have a laser tattoo removed: severe burns, wounds, blistering and scar tissue can occur, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. This was also the reason why the government sent a proposal in consultation last year to make it medically reserved. We have also discussed this in this Chamber and there was support that it was not the model because it would be too tight. It also had some other consequences, such as: could lead to a concern as to whether there could be too long waiting times in the dermatologists and various other things, which is why we chose to pull that part out. So to the comments I have heard on a regular basis that this should be an expression of the government's unwillingness to go any further, and various other things, I just have to say that I do not recognize it. This bill, on the other hand, is an attempt, so to speak, to say that if, for other reasons, the model that was actually the original model cannot fly, what can we do to start some sort of regulation of an area that is currently not regulated at all? That is why we have today's draft law, which sets both a time limit for how often laser removals can be made, makes a requirement in relation to test processing and makes requirements for equipment so that we can get started in order to strengthen consumer safety in this area. Today, as I said, there is no regulation in the area of laser tattoo removal; there are no methods without health risks, and we therefore also believe that there is a need to start some kind of regulation in this area. With the bill, we have sought a balance between the risks associated with the removal of laser tattoos and the burdens imposed on the industry by regulation and, as I said, also the reservations and the very critical consultation responses that came from the far more far-reaching model that was sent out in consultation last year. This means, then, that, a little like when we were making regulation on solariums, we are going down the road that is about what kind of equipment it is, rather than what kind of requirements there are. It is also proposed in the bill that if companies do not comply with the rules for the removal of laser tattoo, the Patient Safety Management Board will be able to issue a ban on the removal of laser tattoos for a shorter or longer period of up to 1 year. The bans will have to be published on the Patient Safety Agency's website, and in addition, non-compliance with the ban or other requirements imposed on companies could lead to police notification. Then there have been questions about everything that is about removal with anything other than laser, and there is the fact that this will be regulated in a notice which is expected to enter into force here in March, and it should be reserved for dermatologists and cosmetic practitioners to do so. If, for example, you're gonna have to... I would like to remove acid, as I heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party asking, but it may also be other types, it will in future be reserved for a very small group to carry it out. So this bill is about everything that relates to laser, where you can say that anything other than laser will be reserved for a very, very small circle of people around the dermatologists and people who work directly with cosmetic treatment in our health care, and thus it is a marked tightening up compared to what the rules are today. So I do not share the view that this is an expression of the fact that we are not doing anything; I see it as a good legislative proposal, which is also in line with the tattoo legislation adopted by a large majority of Parliament's parties in the spring, and which has given a significant boost to consumer safety in the field of tattooing itself. That is why, of course, I am making myself available for any questions that may be raised, but I hope that there will also be a willingness for us to get started here, just as I have taken down the discussion that took place among the parliamentary parties last year, which was that the far-reaching model in terms of making it medically reserved was not a model that could find support for various other reasons either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112921	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110112928	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's comments. There is no doubt that the almost explosive desire to decorate its body with tattoos results in this being more significant than it has been in the last 30 years at least. That's why it's important to look at it. There are certainly quite a lot of young people who are getting tattoos today and who will regret it later in life and thus want to have the tattoos removed again. I would like to ask the Minister whether she does not agree that there is a significant difference between the demands we make on trained or authorised health professionals and those who have no training and that this is a dilemma. Otherwise, it's gonna be a little hard to discuss it. I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that there are significant differences between the very high demands we make on the trained health professionals and the demands of the uneducated, who are then allowed to work on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113027	I fully acknowledge that. I think I used to say cosmetic treatment and not plastic surgery when I talked about what we reserve for dermatologists and plastic surgeons respectively, but there is no doubt about that, and it was some of the things that came out in the consultation round about the tight model that we had in consultation last time that the whole area of cosmetics and cosmetologists as well as tattooists would not be able to remove laser tattoo at all in the future if we had taken the very, very sharper model that we had in consultation last year. I saw that there was no support for this either in the Folketing, and that was actually why we drew that part. I therefore agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the proposal now before us, which is, of course, a softer model, which is also a balance model, means that everything else could have a greater impact on a health professional, because it could fall under the additional responsibility of a health professional than there would be for a non-health person. I am happy to listen if Enhedslisten has a suggestion on how to deal with that question, because I do not think the answer is that you only reserve the health care provider. I think that was the way we tried to go in the first round of consultations, and there we received at least as many critical consultation answers as some of you have also pointed out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113143	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113147	I understand that, and I am pleased that the Minister is responding positively to the dilemma we are raising here. I think we should try to discuss this, because we have always felt that we should not balance business interests with patient safety. We have always said that patient safety must be a priority, and then business interests must be adapted to it. That is why I think we should perhaps take a round about whether we cannot take any further steps, or if the Minister does not think that it can be done in this round, then at least say that in a year's time we are just trying to take stock and look at what actually happened. Because if there is really any reason to have the fear we have at the moment, then perhaps it is also a good idea to say that further demands must then be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113234	I always like to evaluate legislation and, as I said, we expect an announcement to come into force here in March, which then reserves it to dermatologists and plastic surgeons to carry out all the removal that involves acid and other things and thus not laser. That is because we choose to use an even more stringent model there. In the first proposal we had in consultation, we had of course chosen to say that it was also the removal of lasers that was to be covered by a medically-reserved company scheme, and there were consultation responses which pointed out that it was also problematic from a patient point of view, because it was concerned that the scarce resources already available to a number of dermatologists and plastic surgeons would then be used incorrectly. That is why this draft law has been tried to balance it in a different way, including in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113321	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113325	I just want to hear something from the minister. It is in the light of the question that has just been asked, but also the suggestion made by Mrs Lotte Rod on the floor, that it might be an idea for the Minister to call the rapporteurs for a debate on whether there could be some adjustments that could be made, especially in view of the fact that there are so many negative consultation responses. Is it possible that the Minister can summon us? Because then I can surely convince my group that we could vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113357	Well, I'm always happy to have a discussion with Parliament's parties. I just have to draw your attention to what we have also discussed in this Chamber, and for which there was also support among the rapporteurs, that when we drew the original proposal to make the whole area reserved for dermatologists and thus to make some demands as to what qualifications to have, and others, it was because there were at least as many negative consultation answers on that part, but they went in a different direction, both in relation to the problems it could give in relation to bottleneck positions for other patient groups, but also because it would mean that a number of groups which are not health professionals but which have some kind of education or experience in order to remove laser tattoos would not be included. That is why this draft law has tried to strike a balance, and I am happy to take the discussion with Parliament's parties either in the course of the committee's proceedings or in the context of a broad rapporteur's meeting. But I just have to point out that it is not the case that there were all positive consultation responses when the model was the same model. That is why this is an attempt to say: let us now get started with regulation in the field of laser removal, which takes into account both patients and consumers, but also the many different actors in the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113505	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113508	But as I also started my rapporteur's speech by saying, in the alternative, we are glad that we are taking a small step. In my rapporteur's speech, I did not demand that it be doctors who should carry out this kind of treatment. I had some other demands that I read out at the end and that we in the Alternative believe there should be. So I hope that I understand the Minister's reply so that a rapporteur meeting is convened to discuss some of the issues raised today by several rapporteurs and which we believe need to be tightened up in the legislative proposal. Is that how I should hear the Minister's answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113545	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113549	Well, I'm always happy to have a discussion with Parliament's parties, also on the basis of the comments that have been made today. I also think that, when we chose not to go further with the model that had been in consultation last year, it was both, in recognition of the fact that there were a number of worried consultation responses, but also, as a result of a dialogue with the parliamentary parties, that that model had probably been tightened up too much. So, yes, I'm always happy to have a discussion with Parliament's parties. However, this is a suggestion as to how we can start to regulate an industry and an area which is not regulated at all today and which I actually believe should be regulated from the point of view of the consumer. Then there are times when you have to accept that you start in less so as to be able to develop how an area should be regulated in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113632	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor. So the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113655	The negotiations have been opened. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110113711	Thank you for that, President. It is correctly announced that this is a matter of psychiatry, that it is a matter of treatment options for severely mentally ill patients. Let me sum up the reasons why we have the bill here in Parliament today: Back in 2016, we were able to record that some very violent incidents took place in settlements and other places where psychiatric patients are staying. It was severely mentally ill patients, it was outgoing patients, and it was unpredictable behavior they showed. This meant that we in the Folketing looked at what we could do to improve treatment options. Could some special treatment sites be established for this type of psychiatric patient? And that's what we ended up doing. 150 social psychiatric beds in all five regions. It wasn't easy to give birth to 150 beds. There were many discussions about how the criteria were to be: which patients were to enter, who was to manage, who was to pay, what would the conditions be for the patients who had a place in a settlement, so their place on the settlement should still be there while they were in one of the places in the social psychiatric wards? Now you evaluate and look at the extent to which the 150 beds have been established, the extent to which the 150 beds have been filled with psychiatric patients on the basis of the criteria set out in the law behind the 150 beds. That is why we are meeting here today. That is why we in the rapporteur's group have discussed an adjustment, a change in the search criteria which allows one of the 150 beds to be entered. What is in the draft law here today is that one will look at a relaxation of the six demands that have been made. It is also proposed that, rather than meeting all six requirements, only four of the visitation requirements should now be met. The visitation requirements are, for example, a dangerous criterion and there is a relaxation of it. There is also a relaxation of the severity of mental illness. There are some adjustments and some changes in wording, in that it should not be said that it should be of crucial importance, but that it might be the most suitable offer. It's all about trying to open up, so it'll be easier to get severely mentally ill patients into these places. Another adjustment of the law is that the regional councils, with the professionality and competence behind the psychiatric part of psychiatric treatment in Denmark, also have the opportunity to request from the regions the visitation forum, which are those who finally decide which patients should enter the seats, to make an attitude so that a mentally ill citizen/patient can have a place. Two other clarifications, which are also of very great importance, we believe from the Socialist point of view, are that children and young people under the age of 18 are not covered by these beds and this legislation, and that, because this is done voluntarily, only one of the 150 beds can be offered to capable patients, that is, citizens who can answer for themselves and understand the consequences of being offered some kind of special treatment in these places. I shall conclude by saying that the Social Democrats support these changes. It is necessary that we get the test of how to get the 150 beds better in play, because there is a lack of beds. That is why there is a paradox in the fact that we have vacant places, while many other psychiatric patients lack beds. The political intention has been good. As I said at the outset, it has been a little difficult to get the model knitted completely finely and well together, and it now turns out that the search criteria have at least been too tight and therefore you relax them and make adjustments. But it is important for me, as a health rapporteur, to say that psychiatry has problems in its structure. These 150 beds don't solve all the challenges and problems. There are challenges in regional treatment psychiatry, but there are certainly also problems in municipal social psychiatry, and we just need to bear that in mind. We in the Social Democratic Party hope that we will succeed in this and that significantly more severely mentally ill patients will come in and receive good and qualified and specially structured treatment in these places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110114223	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110114230	Psychiatry's suffering. The psychiatry isn't feeling well. There are many things that we in the Danish People's Party would like to see differently, but it is also difficult in an area where resources are lacking. In the years I have been psychiatry rapporteur, we can see that in some areas there has been a lack of economy and in other areas there has been a lack of staff. There has also been a lack of agreement on the direction in which to go to ensure that we had a psychiatry that took care of all the people who suffered a psychiatric illness. We are on the way with small steps, and I would say in relation to the bill that we have up now, that we support the bill as it is, but I would also like to say on the first legislative proposal that it was not something that grew in the Danish People's Party's Gardens, and we were very close not to being able to take part in the proposal. The reason why we ultimately agreed to the proposal was that we had to take out the coercion that was to apply to people who had neither a psychosis nor who were criminals or in any other way exposed, because there we had to set the limit we simply could not accept. That's why we agreed to have this bill put in place 150 seats. We would have preferred to have set up some of the places we have so that we could ensure that patients were not discharged prematurely and that patients could be admitted when they were needed, because that was one of the things we could see in the attacks that had been, namely that some people were not healthy enough to be in the place they were, whether it was a welfare home or it was a social institution. The reason why we are then included in the proposal is, of course, to say that we have to do something. We're gonna have to do something. We sat on a lot of parties and had to agree on this, and then it becomes a patchwork blanket. You have to say that instead of being able to do a psychiatry that is connected, from the time you get a diagnosis, get your treatment, get hospitalized, and until you are discharged and someone is taken care of in social psychiatry. We would have liked the municipalities to have used the specialised places that were actually out there, but the municipalities did not, so there were actually several places that had to close up specialised places even if they were there. That is also one of the reasons why we in the Danish People's Party, together with the government, have set aside money for emergency situations, because we know that some people are going out there who, because of impotence, need help. We can see that the police are spending a lot of resources helping where there are some people who are outgoing and who may not get the help they need. It's sad, but it's a fire extinguisher that we're trying to get on with. I am also very pleased that money is being set aside for some more seats, so as to ensure that you get the treatment you need, but we might well have thought of a lot more places in the psychiatry until we turn the psychiatry over so that we can deal with in the community, which are some of the things we are working on. The criteria we are changing now are that we are relaxing the requirements, as some have said. This means that four out of the six criteria must be met in order for the citizen to be searched for a special place, that the hazard criterion should be relaxed, that the patient should no longer be required to have a psychiatric diagnosis in order to be searched for a special place. Exploration can now also be part of the stay. The focus is on whether the citizen would benefit from the offer here and now rather than a focus on the patient's history, and whether the offer is considered to be the most suitable for preventing violence and abuse. But we also ensure that the patient gives an informed consent, and that's what we thought was the most important thing in relation to these seats. So we're gonna give this another chance, and I'm gonna say that if we don't get the seats used, it's a waste of money, and then we're gonna have to close the places and convert them into beds elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110114709	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110114716	It has been a difficult birth, if I may say so, to adopt legislation on the special psychiatric places to help a very special group of citizens. And back and forth it is just as far, if you may say so, because it is no longer than in June 2017 that we in the Danish Parliament adopted legislation to allow for the establishment of a whole new type of psychiatric place, and in this context also adopted a number of measures to be exactly six visitation criteria to be offered such a special place. Now, a year and a half later, we have to admit that the seats have not been used to the extent we would like. When Danske Regionser says that 83 seats have been opened in 2018, but that more than half are empty, it should of course give us reason to ask ourselves and each other: What does it take to achieve the ambition of better and more targeted offers to a particularly vulnerable group of citizens in Danish society, namely those with the most severe mental disorders and often also an abuse? KL and Danske Regions have expressed the wish that the search criteria be relaxed, and we have listened to that. This means, in concrete terms, that the search criteria, which are about danger and severe mental illness and about the stay, are adjusted so that the citizen in future is at risk of being at risk for others, that there must be a presumption of a severe mental illness, and that the stay in one of the special places should be presumed to be the most suitable for the citizen. In addition, in future it will be sufficient that the criteria 1-3 are met and at least one of the criteria 4-6. This may sound a little technical, but it makes sense, especially in view of the fact that the Regional Council is also given the opportunity to make recommendations for the visitation forum in the future. We in the Left are fully aware that there are differences of opinion on the particular structure of the seats. And this is reflected in the consultation answers, which were also part of the discussions in 2017, but we must be honest and say that unfortunately we have seen several tragic incidents in which mentally ill people have attacked others, including death. Therefore, different efforts are needed, and the special psychiatric places are just one of several interventions. We in the Left hope that with the bill and the adjustments mentioned, we have created better opportunities to fill the seats, because they are needed, both in order to provide security for the staff out there, but also in order to create the best possible treatment and care services for people with severe mental disorders and perhaps even a simultaneous abuse. We must not abandon citizens or staff. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110115016	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110115027	Thank you. Today we are discussing L 134, which relaxes the visitation requirements for the special places in the psychiatric wards, which were adopted through L 207 in June 2017. Where previously there have been six criteria of visitation, all of which should have been met, it is now changing to combining the requirements of dangerous and unpredictable behaviour, severe mental illness and social problems with one of the other criteria of repeated or long-term hospitalisation, that it is the best possible offer that the treatment supports rehabilitation or that it is the best offer to avoid abuse, violence or crime. Overall, there must be just four of the criteria to be met. The reason why you want to change these visitation criteria is that in October 2018, only 40 of the seats created so far 83 are being used, and that is of course unsustainable. It is totally untenable that in a psychiatry already under pressure there are unused places when we know that there is an unprecedented lack of resources and places at all. But it also raises the question of why this is so. Because when the psychiatry is so pressured, why do we have unused seats? There we believe in the Enhedslisten that part of the answer lies in the fact that L 207 was not the right solution to the enormous challenges we have experienced in both social psychiatry and hospital psychiatry, nor in relation to those citizens with mental illness who are not receiving the treatment they are entitled to. As both users, relatives and professional organisations have pointed out both at the time and now, it is not new legislation that is needed, but it is more funding: means of strengthening social psychiatry, means of strengthening hospital psychiatry, for more smaller but more specialised services, for further training and for the introduction of more varied treatment services. Not least, we need specialist services in all regions for double-diagnostics, based on the experience we already know and which we know to work. Therefore, there are also several organisations who stress in the consultation answers that they support the project from the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions that would like to convert the seats into ordinary places in hospital psychiatry. However, the very clear message is that psychiatry remains under-priority and lags behind the somatics, a bias which, unfortunately, is not being corrected by the far too little funding provided in Psychiatry II and in the Finance Act. That is why it is so awkward that there are still unused places in a pressure psychiatry. We share the concern expressed in the consultation answers, both from the Social Pedagogues and from the Patient Association, that it is too early to change the search criteria when we really do not know what the reason for the lack of use is. We can also see that in some regions capacity has actually been used. In this context, I would like to say that we in the Enhedslist also find it very regrettable that the possibility has not been used to remove, when revising the search criteria, the possibility that municipalities may require a citizen to terminate his or her apartment in an existing residence offer in order to be searched for a temporary place in the special psychiatric departments. That could be a very understandable reason for a citizen to say no. We are aware that this is something that is regulated in the Services Act, but we believe that the relaxation of the search criteria would have been an obvious opportunity to remove that possibility for the municipalities. However, despite the critical remarks, we note that the proposal here to relax the search criteria makes it possible, after all, to make it easier to access the places that are so badly needed. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we can support the proposal and we can guarantee that we will continue to fight to ensure better conditions for employees, users and relatives in psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110115424	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the last rapporteur before the midday break is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110115432	Unfortunately, we saw some very serious incidents in 2016 on accommodation offers, and therefore there was a need to do something for the safety of both employees and residents. A broad political agreement was therefore reached in 2016 on a plan to prevent violence in settlements, including 150 new types of special places in psychiatric departments. Not everything has been optimal, and it has been a difficult process, and of course we must now correct the problems that exist. It has been shown that the search criteria are not working as intended and that it restricts the possibility of searching all patients in the relevant target group, and therefore there are expensive spaces empty, and that is of course of no use to anyone. Therefore, the search criteria are adjusted with this bill, and it is hoped that places can contribute more to helping both staff and residents to a better and more secure everyday life. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110115544	Thank you. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 13.00. The first rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110130019	We will resume the first reading of Bill No. L 134 of the Minister for Health. And the rapporteur who, according to the order here, is going to speak now is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110130041	Thank you. We heard before the break several rapporteurs outline what the problem is and why we stand here with L 134. I would say that the negotiations we had, which led to us adopting a law in 2017, were very, very difficult. After all, they were important because we had some challenges in relation to the fact that there was a certain type of case with patients who fell between two chairs in relation to two laws, the Services Act and the Health Act; there were therefore some challenges in relation to what we had to solve. There were also some very serious incidents of violence at social psychiatry settlements, including, unfortunately, the killing of five employees. That is what led us to start the negotiations and, as I have just said, it was some very difficult negotiations. That is also one of the reasons why we are standing here today, because there is still no agreement on whether this was the right solution we chose at the time. I and the alternative actually wanted to spend money on more beds and that we spent money and focused on the really good offers that actually were. There were a few offers in Denmark, where you had good experiences with this group of people. We agreed because we could see that there was a real, real need for a solution. As I said, this was a group of patients, of people who did not really get the right offers and who fell between two chairs in law. So it was difficult to offer them something appropriate to their needs and their situation. Following the adoption of the rules and the law on these 150 special seats, challenges have emerged, for example. to search patients for the special seats, and we have also seen that a large part of the seats are empty. And in order to ensure that the search criteria do not seem unnecessarily restrictive, we are here today with a proposal to relax three of the six search criteria. I will be brief and say that I do not necessarily believe that what we are adopting today solves the challenges of psychiatry at all in general, because there we have some very, very major challenges that also require a different economic situation from the one we now have. However, in the alternative, we agree with the draft law and the idea that we are changing the special beds into ordinary beds, because we find it deeply worrying that we have empty beds in the psychiatry, in other words in a system that is heavily pressured. I hope that the law here will help us to get the solution that we really wanted when we had those negotiations. We all went into it with the desire to find some good solutions, but it was very difficult for us. We did our best, you might say, but now we are trying to change it today in relation to the experience one has with that law. So we say yes to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110130456	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110130505	This bill primarily aims to adjust the visitation criteria for the special places in the psychiatric ward, which is very welcome, because they have been very difficult to occupy. Primo October 2018 stood 43 of 83 squares empty. In the Region of Southern Denmark e.g. 7 seats have just been opened in Esbjerg, and there will soon be 10 more, although the first 15 have not yet been filled in Vejle. In relation to the special places, as you know, municipalities and regions cannot regulate the number of seats up and down as necessary. However, if we now know how crowded the psychiatry is in terms of resources, there is little doubt that this is not the best use of the funds, and that is why we in the Radical Left welcome a proposal to ensure better use of the seats, even if we are not sure whether the measures proposed will be quite adequate. This bill, as I said, softens several of the search criteria, so that, for example, you no longer have to be directly at risk to others or have a psychiatric diagnosis, but simply have to be assessed at risk of being at risk to others or likely to have a severe psychiatric condition in order to qualify for a place. Thus the seats will be able to benefit people who may be tormented, but who are not necessarily ready-made. The individual citizen must now only live up to four out of six criteria in order to be able to get a seat and so far so well. The bill also specifies that the target group is adults, capable of consenting, and also opens up the possibility that not only the municipalities but also the regions, on the basis of their expertise and their knowledge of patients, can set a patient for the visitation forum. We'll back that up. The question is whether the legislative measures will be sufficient to fill the seats. As I read it, the bill does not address the challenge of the lengthy administrative process in terms of searching these citizens. I wonder if that would contribute further to the occupation of the seats. You could also choose to adjust the places according to demand or to convert them entirely into general beds to the same target group, as has also been proposed by among others. KL and Danske Regions, a proposal supported by several organisations. But you don't. On the other hand, several of the consultation answers are being met by speeding up the entry into force of the law, which we consider to be positive. The sooner the law comes into force, the sooner we will also be able to assess the effect. The Radical Left therefore supports the proposal, but we are sceptical as to whether it will suffice. And if we fail to fill the seats as soon as possible, other means must be used in our eyes. Anything else would be a waste of resources in an area that is so desperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110130750	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110130800	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today is, after all, an adjustment to the agreement we made in June 2017 on the establishment of a new type of special place for psychiatric patients. As several have pointed out, since the creation of the special seats, it has become known that there are major problems in searching patients for seats, and the proposal here relaxes on three of the six search criteria so that there is no unnecessary barrier for particularly vulnerable patients to visit to places in the future. You can have a lot of ideas about why they are not being used. and there are also a lot of suggestions for this in the hearings. It is difficult to say when the draft law has had so little time to work, and that is why I think we should follow carefully how things are going, and be ready to adjust if needed. The consultation answers show that there are critical comments on the proposal, in particular from KL and Danske Regions. And most of these critical remarks are not primarily about today's concrete relaxation of the search criteria, but about the decision to set up the beds in the construction, as happened in 2017, because it has just been difficult to search the places created. In SF we fully recognise that the current search criteria have been too restrictive. However, with the new search criteria, we are precisely creating the basis for more citizens to visit the beds, and then it must be up to an ongoing follow-up and evaluation whether and how the effects of the relaxations work in practice. It is also worth noting in this connection that there are indeed examples of regions where people have been successfully searched for new beds. In Vordingborg in Region Sjælland, all 7 beds have been occupied and there is a waiting list for another 16 beds, which opened in December 2018. Inge Fjordside, head of the special places in the Region of Zealand, has pointed out in an interview in the social pedagogues' paper on 29 November that the region's success in visiting the beds is both about the decorating of the special places, so that the focus is on rehabilitation and recovery, so that the beds do not look like a hospital department, but also about the cooperation with the 17 visiting municipalities in the region has been good and constructive. These are just some of the lessons that the other regions and municipalities can draw from in the future, and I hope that this will also be what we are setting in motion, given that we are also relaxing the criteria. Now the new search criteria will work in practice, and we will of course have to follow up and see how they work. There are some of the consultation answers which indicate that the date of entry into force of the law could be brought forward, and I hope that we can also agree that we are interested in these seats being used as soon as possible. So, on that basis, the SF backs the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110131116	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party who apparently has some fine little anniversary. Is this the 2nd anniversary of the first speech from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110131129	That's right; it's exactly two years since I had my first working day in here today and made my very first speech in here. I'm not as nervous today as I was then. As several of the rapporteurs have said today, in June 2017, we decided to set up these special places in the psychiatric ward, and it has subsequently emerged that there have been some challenges in getting patients searched for these special places, and a large part of the seats are unfortunately empty. In order to ensure that the search criteria do not unduly restrict the visitation to the seats, the draft law proposes to relax the search criteria. With the relaxations that are being proposed here, we in the Conservatives hope that we can get the seats in use, and we therefore support the adjustments in the legislative proposal. At the same time, I would like to call on the regions to look at the good example of the Region of Zealand, where the management has presented a paper on the special places in all the municipalities in the region. It was precisely to ensure that knowledge of the special places was spread in the municipalities, which may have contributed to the full coverage of all the places in the Region of Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110131256	We thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then we move on to the minister... she's been here for more than two years. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110131306	Thank you for the comments and receipt of the bill. As many of the rapporteurs have said, it was, of course, to a large extent, a series of serious incidents involving housing offers, the killing of employees and a sharpening situation, which meant that back in 2016 and with the 2017 draft law, in a broad political agreement, we chose to establish the special places in psychiatric departments. The purpose of the special places was, and continues to be, to stabilise the health of particularly vulnerable patients through holistic treatment and rehabilitation efforts. In addition, the aim was and is to reduce the number of violent incidents and conflicts and to improve the safety of other patients and employees. And, as many of the rapporteurs have also said, it has to be said that the special places have had a difficult start, especially in some parts of the country. Because if you can see, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, the wide variety in the use of seats, it may also be surprising that, in this way, you have not learned a long time ago from the success of the Sjælland Region in making the seats work well. I myself have had the pleasure of visiting the special places in Region Sjælland in Vordingborg and talking to the manager and with the employees and also some of the citizens who have benefited from the special places. And I can be appalled to see in other regions that seats are empty when we know that there is a very vulnerable group of citizens, many often with psychiatric disorders, abuse and repeated admissions behind them, which have a need for stability and some longer-term not only for treatment but also for rehabilitation. It is a pity, not least in view of the fact that we also know that in many ways we have a pressure of psychiatry, where 150 places are necessary additional capacity in order to ensure that all those citizens with mental disorders who need a treatment offer and rehabilitation effort in the form of special places can also be visited to them and that we can benefit from them. After all, the first special places were ready for use in March 2018, and in October 2018, when 83 out of the 150 special seats were established, the figures showed that 43 out of the 83 special seats were empty, and thus only slightly less than half were in use. And when we are already dealing with this bill, it is of course in recognition that none of us want a situation where such an important resource in our psychiatry is empty. That is why it is also important for me to act quickly in relation to the challenges we have seen, particularly about the search criteria, even though we had originally proposed that more time should be allowed before we evaluated the bill. I also think that we have an obligation to ensure that the special seats get off to a good start, because it is both untenable and unsatisfactory that the special seats have not been used to the extent that they have been intended. Already back in May/June during the economic agreement negotiations, the Ministry of Health and the Elders had dialogue and discussions with Danske Regions and KL about the reason for the high number of empty seats. And already at that time, i.e. last spring, Danske Regionser and KL pointed out that the search criteria in the Psychiatry Act unnecessarily limited the possibility of searching the patients for whom the target group for the special places was intended. When we look at the bill today, when we also suggest that the Regional Council in the patient's region of residence will in future be given the opportunity to ask the visitors' forum to draw up a recommendation for a special seat, I am rather surprised why there was so much opposition to it when we made the original proposal, because it was one of the things that also gave rise to very great discussion and also a very great resistance at that time on the part of the municipalities that the assessment that lies with staff in the treatment psychiatrist and thus is anchored in our regional council could actually also be made available in order to ensure that the patients for whom the offer of the special places could be relevant were actually given an assessment. Just before the public consultation of the bill and thus after the dialogue and agreement made with Danske Regioner and KL, Danske Regioner and KL made a new joint statement about the special places that several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, namely that they should be converted into ordinary beds reserved for the original target group. As several of the rapporteurs have also said, it was in many ways a sympathetic proposal. I just think that Danske Regionser and KL just lacked to point out where the funding gap should come from, because I really think that it was such a bit of an expression that you first say something and that you immediately say something else, and then you leave an annual bill of 220 million. kr., if you just want to convert them into ordinary beds, without in any way indicating by the municipalities and regions how the funding is to be provided. That is why I continue to believe that the legislative proposal we are discussing today is an important and proper initiative to take in order to see whether we cannot hurry that seats are now filled and benefit both patients and employees and, hopefully, can make a difference to those citizens who need an offer. And as I said, Region Sjælland is a very good example of the fact that the special places can work very well with full occupancy and satisfaction of both staff and residents, and the management has given a presentation on this in all municipalities in the region, which also seems to make a difference. That is why I can only call for the benefit and use of the experience gained from Zealand in the other regions and in the special places. I still believe that this bill is right, although I fully acknowledge, as several of the rapporteurs have said, that this will be an area we will be following closely, including ensuring that the seats are actually filled and that the resources we have allocated to create the special places will also benefit people with mental illness, otherwise we will of course have to have a new dialogue. I am, of course, making myself available to the questions that the committee may have, and I hope that we can have a relatively rapid committee procedure so that we can also make the legislative proposal work, because in this way I share the wish expressed by a number of people, namely that this is also about the entry into force, which we have brought forward once in relation to the consultation version of the proposal, to ensure that the legislative proposal is effective and will therefore benefit the patients concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110131958	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132002	Thank you. As the debate has shown, it can be said that we really do not know very much about why these seats are not being used. We don't have much evidence there until now. And I am just thinking that one of the elements that might well have an impact on it, of course, could be the fact that the municipalities still have the opportunity to demand that the citizen withdraw his place in an existing settlement offer in order to take up a place in a temporary offer as the special psychiatric places are. I am aware that this is something that is regulated in the Services Act, but I would just like to know if the government has any thoughts about relaxing that possibility. Because I believe that the municipalities do not use it often, but then it can be said that for the citizens there could be some certainty in knowing that they should not give up an existing seat in order to take up a place in a temporary offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132059	In fact, I do not share the view that we know nothing. So, we have the experience we have gained in relation to KL and Danske Regions, where clear recommendations have been made to the contract circle, in relation to what observations have been made and what specific challenges have been experienced in the visitation forum in relation to the search criteria. And these are the ones we are acting on the basis of. In addition, we will then take the initiative in ensuring that the Regional Council can suspend. This has previously been the subject of a major discussion between KL and Danske Regions, i.e. whether there should also be that possibility. There we have so politically chosen to say that we think it should be there too because, unfortunately, we can see that there are a great many beds occupied by patients who have completed treatment in psychiatry and where it may be right and proper to think of the special places as an option, if you cannot see an offer out in the home municipality that is relevant to the citizen concerned where the course of treatment in psychiatry has actually been completed and where you can then also recommend from the visitation forum. I find, contrary to what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, that the municipalities continue to believe that social legislation is too weak in comparison with the fact that they are currently facing double costs. And that is why I think we may have found a balance to start with in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132219	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132220	It just puzzles me a little when you have the opportunity in the municipalities to say to a citizen: If you move to a temporary place, it may mean that you have to give up a permanent place in a place where you are happy to live and to which you really want to return. In other words, all other things being equal, it must strengthen the legal position of the citizen if it is to be possible to retain the permanent place rather than have to terminate it. And, of course, we do not know whether it is any of the things that prevent citizens from seeking temporary places, that they know that they can risk losing their permanent place. And since the municipalities already do not make much use of that provision, it could be a way to get rid of some unnecessary legislation by abandoning that provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132306	I do not see that that is the problem. On the contrary, I find that the municipalities point to the fact that they think that the legislation is too narrow in relation to the risk of double costs. These are the feedback that I am getting, but as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also says, it does not concern this draft law which is based on social legislation, and that is why we must have that dialogue with the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. As far as the special seats are concerned, I think it is just important to say that it was also part of the discussion that we had politically that we stand firm, that it should be rehabilitating and not just habilitating. Because that was one of the points made by KL, that is to say that it might well be seen that it should not move the citizen. But what has actually been important to say is that there has to be an improvement there. We have to have a desire that the offers to citizens about the special places, which must now also have a longer duration than what was originally intended, should take the citizen somewhere else, so that you have a better basis for moving forward in life and perhaps just get some of the tools that make you able to work. That is why I think it is important that we take the starting point that, for a great many citizens, we should not go back to the same situation in our lives in the light of the aid, treatment and rehabilitation that has been provided in the special places.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132418	Thank you. There's such a little watch for help. It's just like a friendly orientation. But there are several questions, so there is ample opportunity to make its views known. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132427	Thank you very much. I think the Minister speaks with two tongues. The minister says it is important and right that we take the initiative and adjust the law now that it is necessary. So the Minister says, that is what I hear, that the regions could just pull themselves together. All the regions could just do just like the Region of Zealand, and then the problem was gone. As the Minister always does, the Minister takes every opportunity to criticize the regions for their quality and the way they perform their tasks, and speaks against the regions. I think that sounds very hollow in such a serious context as this one, where the Minister also says it is necessary to change. Because the fact is that until now it is the municipalities that have to set for the visitation forum, so it is the municipalities that are the reason why patients are not referred. The regions have created their seats and they are actually in place. From a social democratic point of view, the regions take responsibility every day for trying to solve the problems. Region Sjælland has solved this problem, but they have certainly also been unfortunate when it comes to the new large psychiatric hospital in Slagelse, where they have departments that are empty because they cannot provide staff. So the regions fight every day. I would just like to ask the Minister: was this an answer that the regions should get their act together, or was it an answer that it is true that we are making this bill and these changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132555	Well, as I said, I think both are relevant. When we have chosen and also politically discussed that this bill is necessary now, and that we have not wanted to let time pass, it is both because it is an important resource that is currently empty, so there are people who could actually benefit from this offer, but who are not being searched for it, and we have to act on the basis of it and because there is a practical reality out there, where I just have to see that the Region of Zealand has managed in a completely different way to make the special seats work. You have to be inspired by that. I have a clear expectation of that. Even if we have five regions in Denmark, one must be inspired by the places where things are going well, and this is true in this case Region Sjælland. Yesterday we talked about the interpretation fee, where it is the Capital Region that has secured a good collection. There I have a clear expectation that you will learn from the good experiences you have in some places, so that you also make things work in everyday life. It's about working conditions, it's about special places, it's about collecting interpretation fees, it's about the fact that all around you, of course, you don't have to sit and invent the deep plate if you can learn from each other and you can benefit from good experiences, which in this case could help some citizens who very much need the offer that lies in the special places, in relation to just getting a more recovery-based approach to psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132715	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132716	I interpret that as a clear praise that we have five regions that can try out a little different things, and then you find out what works, and that is what you get implemented. This is exactly the opposite direction the government is planning to take. They want to dismantle the regions and place it all in a central ministry over here, which then has to tell us how to do things. I really think that the Minister is speaking against his own experience of what has just come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132744	I would very much like to have a discussion, both about the government's future health reform and the initiatives we are going to take to lift our health services further, just as we have lifted health care all the years we have been in government, because that is what we need. Patients are thus entitled to make our health services better every day. So do our health workers. And the employees also need us to ensure that there are no empty seats, so that you do not go to work in Vejle and, as such, have no citizens, you can make a difference when you can learn from some of the experiences that have been done, in this case with the special places on Zealand. And there I have a clear expectation that you will exchange experiences and let the good examples spread.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132821	Then it is Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132824	Thank you. As far as I understand, one of the problems experienced in the municipalities is the lengthy visitation process. I just want to hear what the Minister thinks about it. Is that something you can and will do about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132837	It's relevant to focus on. It is not the case that there is a requirement in the legislation that it should be some time or other, so it is also about which processes and procedures are being implemented regionally and municipally in relation to the visitation forum. My impression, also of the cooperation that runs in the Region of Zealand, is that some clear contact points have been built up, and the manager of the special places has been around the municipalities and told about what opportunities there are and what limitations there are. The changes we are making now with this bill, it is my clear conviction that it will mean something, because I know that in some places you have had a little experience of having to meet a slightly too long checklist, compared to perhaps some citizens who then only lived up to four and a half or five of the criteria, and then you really wanted to have searched them, but did not have the opportunity. This is one of the things I hope this bill will help to make the process more flexible, but also so that some of the citizens who may benefit from the offer can be searched for a place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132931	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110132947	We are opening the debate, and it is the Minister of Health who is allowed to start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110133011	We shall now consider a motion for a resolution on the preparation of an alcohol treatment package as part of the health reform tabled by Enhedslisten and SF. B 27 instructs the government to prepare a proposal for an alcohol treatment package presented to the parties of the Folketing for subsequent negotiation and implementation in this Assembly as soon as possible and by 1 February 2019 at the latest. If you look at the proposal from the proposers, you can see that, among other things. to ensure better quality and legal certainty for the approx. 140,000 alcohol-dependent Danes that we have. Basically, I fully agree with the intention. Alcohol treatment in Denmark must be of high quality because alcohol dependence has major consequences for the individual and for the relatives who are. And it is important that, in this situation, good and effective treatment is offered. However, the government does not believe that a package of alcohol treatment containing the three elements proposed is an appropriate way of strengthening the quality of alcohol treatment, in other words, if we look at the three specific points proposed in the motion for a resolution. The first element the proposers want is that the Health Authority's course series, known as the alcohol treatment course, should automatically lead to the approval of the students. It is, of course, important that the staff at the treatment centres have the right skills in relation to alcohol treatment, and this was also the reason why alcohol treatment training was originally developed; because there was a need for training in alcohol treatment which was not raised by other actors, for example. the municipalities themselves or an educational establishment. In the long term, however, it is not appropriate for the Danish Health Service to provide training to municipal alcohol dealers. We believe that education should lie in a recognised educational institution, as does education normally do, and that it should therefore instead be established whether or not a genuine continuing training in alcohol treatment can be established at a recognised educational establishment. The training must be a superstructure of the typical training courses of the alcoholics who have received it may be the nursing or pedagogic training and an alcohol-treater's training must therefore take into account the adaptation of the skills already acquired by the practitioners from their respective training programmes. The Danish Health Authority's experience in the development of competence for alcohol processors can also provide a basis for how such further training can be built up. The second element that the authors of the motion for a resolution want is the introduction of binding requirements for investigation and examination. After all, the Danish Health Authority has published a number of publications on quality in alcohol treatment, and most recently in November 2018 new national clinical guidelines for the treatment of alcohol dependence were published. There should therefore be no doubt about what is good quality in alcohol treatment, either in municipalities or in private treatment centres. That is, of course, what the national clinical guideline on the treatment of alcohol dependence lays down to a large extent. The quality and uniformity of alcohol treatment has been strengthened in recent years by the approval and operational supervision of alcohol treatment sites by the Social Protection Agency since 1 January 2016 in the publicly funded alcohol treatment. The approval and supervision of the Social Inspectorate shall include, inter alia: provide a guarantee that the quality of the citizen's treatment is in order. However, I am also well aware that it may be a challenge to create a uniformly high quality of treatment across 98 municipalities, despite the guidelines and recommendations which the municipalities use. This is also one of the reasons why the government has already launched a work to strengthen the quality of municipal health interventions based on the initiative we presented in December 2017, "Health where you are', which is part of the government's health reform. Work is therefore already under way and, in the long term, consideration may be given to whether alcohol treatment should be addressed in this context. The third element of an alcohol treatment package, which the proposers want, is that the Danish Health Service should draw up a reference programme for alcohol treatment, for example. to clarify the responsibilities between municipalities, regions and general practice. I would like to point out that it is more than 10 years since the Danish Health Authority last published a new reference programme, which is why we do not think it is a task for the government to take up again. Having said that, there should of course be no doubt about the division of responsibilities between municipalities, regions and general practitioners in the treatment of people with alcohol dependence. If local authorities, regions and general practitioners find that there are doubts about the allocation of responsibilities in certain situations, I would urge them to approach me because immediately we do not have the impression that there are a large number of cases of doubt. However, there should be no doubt as to who is responsible for what, because the citizens must not get caught up in the system, and therefore, if such people are there, specific questions of doubt must of course be dealt with. The Danish Health Authority has a continuous focus on quality in the alcohol treatment, among other things. And the knowledge that the Danish Health Authority already has about the quality and evidence of alcohol treatment, I have a clear expectation that the municipalities will, of course, take advantage of it. Alcohol treatment is not an area that has been forgotten, neither by the Health Authority nor by the government, but I believe that I share the opinion of the proposers that there are municipalities where there is a need to address more closely the recommendations that also come from the national level, in terms of ensuring good quality in alcohol treatment. I also find it difficult to get an overview of the municipalities' alcohol treatment efforts and an overview of where the real challenges arise, and not least of how big the challenges are. And that is why, basically, we also need more knowledge about the challenges of today's alcohol treatment. That is why I would also like to suggest that we ask the Danish Health Authority to carry out a service check on the alcohol treatment area, a service check to clarify where it lags with compliance, for example. the national clinical guidelines, the competences required for the treatment of alcohol and, where appropriate, whether there are any general doubts as to the allocation of responsibilities. When we then know the challenges and have the service check from the Danish Health Authority, I also believe that we have a better basis for dealing with what is of challenge, whether there are challenges to be handled and how to do it in an appropriate way. So, on the basis of the service check, we will be able to assess whether there is a need for new efforts or requirements to ensure a sufficiently high quality of alcohol treatment throughout the country. However, it is also important to bear in mind that the municipalities are different and have different sizes, and that is why I do not really think we can ever expect all municipalities to have the same type of offer. That doesn't mean that quality shouldn't be in order, but that there are some terms, even sometimes geographical conditions, that we also have to both accept and relate to. It is the case that there has to be some kind of free space in terms of how to plan things, but the free space must not, of course, stand in contrast to the fact that all citizens must be offered adequate, high-quality alcohol treatment. As I began my speech by saying, it is important that Danes who develop addiction to alcohol can also expect to be offered high quality treatment and by a competent staff. In the opinion of the government, the concrete proposals for an alcohol treatment package are not the right initiatives in this regard, but we recognise that this is the reason for the motion for a resolution that we need a systematic review of the area. And that is why we want to set in motion a service check on alcohol treatment. So, against this background, the government cannot support the resolution as it stands, but we will take other initiatives to strengthen the alcohol treatment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110133837	Thank you. There are brief comments. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110133840	Thank you. I shall start with the receipt of the Minister's acknowledgement of the intention of the proposal that has been made. Then I understand that the Minister now believes that we should have a service check. That is quite a good thing. My concern is just a little that this is not the first time we have this debate, and studies have been carried out repeatedly. Most recently, Alcohol & Society has made a major study. And I believe that a motion for a resolution like this, at the SF's request, was up in 2010, when we were told at the time that an authorisation system for alcohol dealers was just in place. We're still waiting for that today. So there will be a certain degree of impatience in my understanding that we should have a service check. I think there are some things that it is quite obvious that we can already start to tackle. That is, for example, the case. in relation to an authorisation for the training of alcohol dealers. We've spent a lot of money on the pool to get this alcohol-treater training started. There's 66 percent today. of the alcohol processors who have parts of the alcohol-treater training. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what has stood in the way of making alcohol-processing training an approved training course which can ensure a more uniform quality of treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134006	As I said in my introduction, we do not believe that training should necessarily remain with the Danish Health Service. That is not where we normally organise education and training. We believe that in some way we should normalize alcohol-treater training, by placing it in a recognized educational establishment, and so that we will, in this way, create a space for what kind of training it is. There are approx. 2,000 people who have gone through the courses there are and there are currently 46 on the waiting list. Clearly, there is a will for the development of competences by voluntary means. However, as I have said, we do not believe that an authorisation system for the education of the Danish Health Service is the future. It is, in fact, to get this into our recognised education system and thus also to systematise the training as an inservice training for alcohol dealers who have different backgrounds. There is also a need for such continuing training also to take into account the different competences that you provide and what you may need in this context of additional competences. As I said at the outset, a number of initiatives have been taken, for example. that the National Clinical Guidelines of November are now being supervised by the Social Inspectorate. That is why I am not of the opinion that nothing is happening in this area. There is always a boost, but we also experience the need for a service check to take stock.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134129	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134130	Thank you. I guess it's not the case that it's the Danish Health Authority that is specifically responsible for the training. I guess it's in the Center for Public Competence Development. I am still surprised that, now that a lot of resources have been spent on getting people out of that education through the pool funds, it will not recognise that this is the best offer we have now for alcohol-handling education. So I would like to hear about the matter with the Social Protection Agency: will it also be extended to private alcohol treatment facilities? After all, we know that it is the case today that large parts of the alcohol treatment is carried out privately. Will the government be willing to let the Social Inspectorate take that role as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134211	After all, the whole part about the Social Protection Agency and what the Social Protection Agency is going to do is not under the authority of the Minister for Health, but under the authority of the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. I also know that there have been negotiations on some of this. So I would call for it to be taken up in the right context. I just mentioned it as an example of some of the things that have been changed and have been tightened up and, of course, as everything else just does also increase quality. The course series, which the Danish Health Authority has via the Center for Public Competence Development, COK, as the rapporteur also mentions, is to be put out to tender here in 2019 because the contract you have had with the COK has expired. We think it is natural, in this context, to think that it should be the future, that such continuing training is not enshrined in a framework which has actually emerged from some, as the rapporteur also says, investment funds and various other initiatives, but that it should be brought into a recognised educational institution, as is the case with most other courses in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134310	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134312	Thank you. I think I heard the Minister for Health say that there are municipalities where quality needs to be looked at. When you read the Minister for Health's speech from when she was rapporteur on a proposal that is exactly the same from 2010, you will see that the Minister also said at that time that there are municipalities where there is a need to look at quality. After the municipal reform in 2007, and after the municipalities have taken over the task, there is a need to look at whether the municipalities have now also succeeded in getting organised in a sensible way. With the different quality that exists in the individual municipalities, is there not also a risk that the special needs that the Minister otherwise claims the citizen has a claim to have met will not be met, and does it not make sense to try to look at some kind of standards so that everyone knows what it means to do this alcohol treatment and to ensure that people have the educational qualifications for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134421	If we want to strengthen the close health care system and improve the quality of the municipalities with a future health reform, it is because we have some places where we do not think quality is uniform enough. We have a number of places where we do not think it should necessarily be a municipal invention, what quality standards we should have in the health sector, but that the citizen should see a much more professional approach to the treatment we receive, including in the local community, in the health sector. And that's one of the things we already played out with in the game we presented in December 2017, "Health where you are," that is, that we need clear quality standards for the close health care and community efforts. And I also said at the outset that it is very well, among other things. I would also like to mention the area we are discussing today. And I also think that the national clinical guidelines for 2018 were an expression of this, i.e. that we like to create some professionally standardized framework.The prevention packages are also an expression of this and then we can see that there is great variation in how the municipalities take it down from the shelves. And yes, it is a discussion that we are going to have to take, and I hope that SF will also help to strengthen the close health care system, even when it comes to professional quality standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134530	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134531	Thank you. I am listening to the Minister referring to a service check. However, since we can now see that the problems today are about the same as they were in 2010, does it make sense to confine ourselves to thinking in service checks, or is it soon time for something more specific to be done in relation to that? After all, the cost is enormous by not doing anything, both financially and certainly on a personal level, so even if the Minister says that the area is not forgotten, does the Minister not understand if precisely these citizens and their organisations actually have an experience that it is not at least at the top of the pile?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134614	That's not really the experience I have. I find that there are a great many municipalities that have continuously raised both the quality of the treatment, but also the context that must be experienced as a citizen. I also believe that some of the legislative initiatives we have taken during this government period have helped to negotiate some of them in terms of a plan and a different approach. I also believe that we are not just thinking about alcohol treatment and abuse for ourselves, but that we are thinking about it together in terms of broader social action, broader labour market efforts and other things, because it is extremely important to ensure that it is a holistic offer that is around the individual citizen, otherwise I do not think it has the effect that it should have. There I see that the municipalities have made a lot of promises, but there is also a need for us to take stock, therefore a service check, and there is also a need for national quality standards, including for the close health care sector, and that is what we have already reported out we will do by the government and which will be part of a future health reform, which I also hope will take an active part in and participate in discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134713	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134716	Thank you. Now the Minister was given the opportunity to mention the close and coherent health services several times here in the reply, and that is something that we have been waiting for very, very long for, and we are still doing away with it. I have a question, because the Minister says in relation to the varying quality in the municipalities that there are also some specific geographical conditions that apply to some municipalities. There I need to know a little more about what the Minister and the government are thinking. Because it can of course be interpreted as meaning that in future it is also an acceptance that there must be a difference. Because the minister and the government are talking a lot about geographical inequality, and this means geographical inequality. For some municipalities, things are much more qualified than other municipalities do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134813	After all, this is the kind of discussion that the questioner and myself, and also other good colleagues, have over and over again, with regard to the close and coherent health care system. How far are we? We presented our proposal •Health, where you are in December 2017, with a wide range of initiatives in relation to the near health care we have presented • A doctor close to you • in relation to strengthening general practice, and we have just today dealt with a bill relating to health data in the future, which is all an integral part of a future health reform, and which is, of course, very much about the close health care and the context that must be in our healthcare. But we're not there yet. That is why we will also be presenting a major health reform, such as: focuses on how to strengthen our close health care, including a national quality plan for close health care, with clear standards of what the municipalities have to deliver, and this is not just something that is then made by one round. It is, of course, a quality plan which, like the special plan in the hospital sector, must develop over time and which will of course also cover several areas on an ongoing basis. I said at the outset that I can see for myself that the alcohol sector can be very much an area which can also be covered. In relation to geographical difference: If you look in northern Jutland, I think you just have to say that there is a difference between a small municipality like Læsø and a municipality like Aalborg, and there are some places where you can say that it is not just a question of what the municipality can deliver in an area. It is also a question of where the specialised offers are in relation to it and how we ensure cooperation. And there is some of what we are concerned about, including in relation to health communities, that we also have broader cooperation across local authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134957	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110134958	Of course, we are talking about alcohol treatment in the municipal area, but what the Minister is saying here could be completely transferred to what are regional functions, and here it just sounds extremely hollow that one can highlight these examples when it comes to municipalities, but when it comes to differences between regions, the government has been bitten by the fact that they provide geographical inequality, and that is why new structures and new lines need to be made on a map instead of perhaps being able to say what it is like to do things, and that is the way it is. So this sounds extremely hollow in relation to the political and ideological project that we are currently waiting for with anxiety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135040	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135040-2	We want to strengthen the close health care system. We want to strengthen the health care that is close to where people live, general practice, municipal health provision. This also means some quality standards. It may well also develop into quality standards in the area we are talking about today. We do not accept geographical inequality because of municipal boundaries, as the rapporteur says. That is also the reason why we introduced a new patient right, a right to rapid rehabilitation, no matter where you live, so that you can secure rehabilitation after 7 days. It was because we did not think it was reasonable that there was as much municipal difference as there was in the area of rehabilitation. Similarly, a quality plan for close health care will also ensure more uniform and common standards for the health provision that citizens meet in municipalities, and I think that is only fair. I therefore hope that the Social Democratic Party will unpack the ideology and help solve the challenges we face in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135134	With that, we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and the next rapporteur is actually Mr Beazley. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135152	Thank you for that, President. It is absolutely necessary that we discuss alcohol abuse treatment. There are a lot of Danes who in their everyday lives and in their lives are marked by abuse, and it marks a lot of children who grow up in homes where at least one parent is an alcohol addict, and overall it affects our society very much and very negatively every day. I think it is a good thing that the authors of the motion raise this question, and we have already seen from the answer given by the Minister that things have been taken up in the past. From a social democratic point of view, there is not the necessary momentum for a clearly high quality that our society is asking for, which is right and fair, and we must do this differently, and we must do it better. I think it is a good thing that national clinical guidelines are being drawn up in this area. This is what the practitioners have to do, and local politicians need to lean on it. But the fact that there is a very diverse and fluctuating quality is a fact, and we need to recognise and do something about that. I also think we have tangled with the task the times we have tried to look at who should do the supervision before. I think it was properly placed in the Social Protection Agency from 2016, but we have to say that it does not cover everything and that we have not followed it sufficiently well politically either. If we look at the motion for a resolution, as is the case here with the three elements of ensuring a licence for practitioners, quality requirements for investigation and treatment and a reference programme for investigation and treatment in relation to alcohol abuse, I have to say that I think that many of these things can be very good, and we also believe in the Social Democrats that we should address this here, perhaps also considerably more thoroughly than we can with the background of asking a government to draw up a proposal now on 1 February 2019. I would say that is one reason why the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution as it stands here. The second is with regard to the economy. It is proposed here that some tax adjustments should be made in relation to alcoholic drinks. Yes, the tax relief was certainly not something that had grown in either our front or back garden, so we would certainly like to take a look at that. But to start thinking it very concretely into financing this, we don't think we give the right context and the right elements. We believe that after a forthcoming parliamentary elections we will have to meet broadly politically to discuss how we put this up, also following on from what the Minister says is already going on. The minister calls it a service inspection. I think we should build some ambition into it so that we do not just get measured on it, but that we get asked: what do we actually want? So I would say from the Socialist side that the intention, the aim, the attention is absolutely right. This affects a lot of people in their everyday lives, and there is too much diversity, a diversity that we in the Socialist Group cannot accept either. Many times I have said that the municipalities have also been put in a really difficult situation. I myself live in an area where we can rightly say that there are municipalities that have little money. They have challenges in a great many ways, and they certainly also have many citizens who, both in terms of disease and abuse, have been brought into a situation which means that there are many who need help. The thing about being a poor municipality and having a great many citizens who need help is not a good combination. So we would really like to take part in a more thorough discussion of both the consequences and the possibilities and the cover-up, and we think that we should make a decisive contribution to this on the other side of a parliamentary election. So in these words I repeat that we do not support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but as you can hear, we strongly support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135617	There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135621	Thank you. Alcohol abuse is a huge cost to society; it also causes huge social problems, and it also causes serious and very serious health problems. I believe that both the rapporteur and I have tried to work in departments where alcoholics who have not been treated come in and are threatened by their illness as a result of alcohol abuse. Does it not at least make a great deal of sense, regardless of the fact that we can look at organization and structure here and now to try to make some qualified demands on what therapists should be able to do, what knowledge they should have, and what offers they should be able to offer to the citizen who needs treatment for his alcohol abuse before you get so far that you finally lie like a patient in a hospital?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135720	Yes, I fully agree with the SF's rapporteur that we should do so, and I believe that the time has come to do so. I also think now, after this half hour of discussion, that we have discovered that there has been no progress in improving quality and in a clear development, which is what we have mentioned here in the Assembly earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135740	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Just a moment, however, Mrs Kirsten Normann would like to make a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135747	That's right, but the button wouldn't really accept it when I pressed it. One thing, of course, is the huge picture, in which I can agree with the rapporteur that we can look at this in the long run, and the Minister has also mentioned the reform of health and other matters in relation to that part, but this is, after all, an isolated issue: ensuring quality in treatment, for example. We must not forget that there is a need for training and for it to be required. Isolatedly, it is reasonable to address exactly the problem, as opposed to the larger alcohol treatment that you may need to deal with later.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135827	Yes, and we need to define what the quality of the training should be. What we must then also be aware of is that as soon as we have said that this is the quality that we want all the practitioners to be able to achieve in their practical work, both publicly and privately, as we see it, we must also be aware that then it costs. So we also have to make the right calculations, because otherwise we risk giving the municipalities an expense that is added to all the costs they already have, where they have so much difficulty in bringing the ends together in all the welfare areas where expectations are high. I think that we should pay close attention to the tasks that will be carried out in the future. I am actually hearing that from the Minister, and that is also what I hear from the KL, so that there is a greater and greater recognition in the KL that we need to have a uniform set of rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135916	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110135919	Thank you. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the positive comments made in relation to the intentions of the proposal here. I would just like to address a few of the points that the rapporteur mentioned as justification for not being able to vote in favour of the proposal at the present time. Firstly, there is the time, and it is clear that when we tabled the proposal, 1 February sounded like an excellent deadline for it, but we have to say that it is not realistic now and that is why we are, of course, willing to change it, in case this proposal is adopted. Secondly, there is funding. Here, too, I would just like to point out that, when the then KORA, which is called VIVE today in 2017, calculated the costs incurred by the municipalities when it came to the effects of the alcohol impact, they came to the conclusion that it amounted to 3.5 billion. kr. So, as far as funding is concerned, we have set out a concrete financing option, but there is also something that can be obtained when it comes to the implications. What I really just want to hear is whether the rapporteur agrees with the whole principle of this also if it is something that we have to look at after the next parliamentary elections that we have to have an authorisation for alcohol dealers, that we have to have some quality standards ensured and that we have to have a reference programme. Is this something the rapporteur can promise, that is to say, that it is the model or the principles that we then link the model together, can we discuss whether it should be based on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140042	It sounds quite right to me that these are three of the ways in which we should be called whether it should be called an authorisation or whether it should be called something else, I cannot say, but yes, there should certainly be a uniform level of knowledge in relation to those who should be practitioners. The rapporteur says that this has major economic consequences for our society, and I said this in my rapporteur's speech, but I would like to say as a Socialist that there are some costs that tick into other accounts first, and that is human. This applies to adults and their children, but, as we have also talked about in the past, there are also children who are alcohol abusers. And even if alcohol consumption is falling, it does nothing to help those who have developed an abuse, and that is where our social responsibility must go about in a different way than we have seen it go through in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140140	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140143	Of course, I entirely agree with the rapporteur on this. Of course, when I mentioned it economically, it was because the rapporteur himself mentioned it as a reason for not being able to support the proposal at present. Apart from that, I fully agree with those considerations and that is also why we have tabled the proposal here. After all, this is not a proposal about saving money. It is a question of having a group of citizens here who need better help than the one they are receiving today. As far as the authorization is concerned, I fully understand that this is something we can look at. I just think that what is crucial is that the level of knowledge is guaranteed, but it is also the guarantee of some form of redress and some kind of supervision of the practitioners, and that is why I think it is important that we get at least some form of authorisation, so that we also ensure the safety of the people seeking alcohol treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140234	I think that we can agree on this very easily, and I think that we can do so broadly politically. I just think that we need to work on a setup where we think about it all, including whether it should be a larger plan, also with the experience that is being gained now. When I have visited centres of abuse, it has been my clear impression that people are working incredibly dedicated, but they also need us to look at it and say: it must be the best knowledge that is used in all places when dealing with abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140305	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we move on to the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140317	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for making this proposal for an alcohol treatment package. In the Danish People's Party, we agree that there is a lack of quality assurance in the treatment of alcohol, including agreement on the component of the resolution which will impose quality requirements on alcohol treatment. It is also very important that those who are employed as therapists, of course, have a professional and relevant knowledge. A study by Alcohol & Society has also shown that it is very different who carries out the alcohol treatment in the municipalities. There are 98 municipalities which have different ways of preventing and helping with alcohol treatment, and we must of course learn from the very best. In the Danish People's Party we are great supporters of family efforts. There is also evidence that family-oriented alcohol treatment helps both the family and the drinking party. Family-oriented alcohol treatment is as effective or even better than individual alcohol treatment. Family-oriented alcohol treatment can have a major positive effect on the family and reduce the physical and mental symptoms of family members on stress. Unfortunately, a study from Alcohol & Society shows that approx. 13% of the municipalities do not offer family-oriented interventions, as well as at 22 per cent. of the municipalities do not have offers for relatives, and that 9%. the municipalities require the drinking party to be treated in order for the relatives to be helped. Of course, that is far from good enough. There are also long waiting times for citizens to visit for either day or day treatment. In 10%. of the country's municipalities can start drinking treatment every day of the week, in 60%. of the country's municipalities it is only possible on weekdays, while the treatment in 32%. by the municipalities can only be started on selected working days. The conditions for starting alcohol treatment are therefore very, very different in the country's municipalities, and alcohol problems have consequences for others than the drinking party, since the family is often as burdened as the addict. There is also no doubt that alcohol is a great deal in Danish culture. Since 2007, the municipalities of the country have been responsible for the public treatment of alcohol. According to the Health Act, municipalities are obliged to provide their citizens with free alcohol treatment within 14 days of request. The latest overview of the municipalities' alcohol treatment is from 2017, when Magasinet Rus made a round ring to 30 municipalities. The survey from 2012 and its predecessor from 2010 as well as the rounding from 2017 highlighted precisely the great quality differences between municipalities. Against this background, Alcohol & Society has now taken the temperature here on the municipal alcohol treatment, and it still shows away the same pattern, namely that there is a great difference in quality. In the Danish People's Party, we want to help look at how we improve this effort. We cannot then support the proposal as it stands here. Some examples have been given here today, and this is a case in point. on when this will come into force, and of course there will be funding. We would very much like to take part in looking at whether we cannot draw up a joint report. I have also been writing on someone I can send around to see if we can meet at that stage so that we can create support and find the good solutions together. These were the words of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140700	There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140704	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and thank you for the positive comments on that. I fully agree that it would be a good idea to have a joint report drawn up. After all, we fully agree with the authors that both the timing and the funding are something we are looking at. What can be absolutely crucial to us is the principles of it, and I can hear the rapporteur fully agree that this is not new knowledge. I do not quite understand the need for a municipal service check now, because every time we have looked at it, and every time we ask the municipalities, it is the same picture that we get. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he will also agree that we are now setting in motion a system of certification in relation to the training requirement, some quality standards and a reference programme, in other words the principles of the proposal before us, because that is what is most crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140805	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are very much in agreement with the intentions of the proposal. But that being said, you should not be mistaken about what a service check may also contain. We actually saw this when we changed the patient compensation scheme, and it was, of course, a resolution, one might say about service checks and patient replacements. So I do not think that one excludes the other. We need the knowledge we already have, and the knowledge we already have, we can work on it. Besides, it may be that we get new knowledge in relation to a check of this. So I kind of support the Minister for Health, because I think it's really good that we can do both.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140850	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140855	A service check is never out of the way, and of course we can easily use new knowledge. It worries me a little that every time we have dealt with this, it has been said that we need some new knowledge before anything happens. That is why it has always been pushed before us, and we have not responded, and there it is just that we in the Enhedslisten and the SF believe that, like the knowledge we have, we now have a problem here that we have to deal with in the interests of the 140,000 people affected by alcohol addiction and their relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140929	Yeah, but I don't think one of them excludes the other. Compared with the 140 000 people who are abusing alcohol, I also think it is important that we actually get a knowledge of how alcohol treatment works in the municipalities, compared to how many people understand me correctly that come out on the other side and come out of their abuse. In fact, I think we lack some knowledge about this, in other words, in relation to the efforts that are being made in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110140955	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141004	Thank you. The resolution we are debating today has been tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party. The proposal envisages a parliamentary decision to draw up a proposal for an alcohol treatment package as part of the government's health reform. And I would like to start by recognising the importance of the debate that the two parties wish to raise. In the Left we share the intention behind the proposal: to ensure the best possible treatment for alcohol. Alcohol abuse has major health consequences for the individual, and abuse often also has major social consequences. Especially when there are children in the family, it may sometimes seem almost incalculable and in every way unhappy. Some 140,000 people today depend on alcohol, and approx. 585,000 Danes have harmful alcohol consumption. These are sad figures, and that is why we should not be sitting with our hands in our laps even though there are points of light that are definitely worth paying attention to. For the years 2010-2017, the proportion of people exceeding the high risk threshold for alcohol consumption has decreased from 10,6%. This is a positive development. We must ensure that this work continues, and there are many ways to go. The authors of the proposals want to authorize the practitioners, and at the outset it sounds like a sympathetic initiative. However, the fact is that the Danish Health Service's recommendation in this area is moving in a slightly different direction. The Danish Health Authority is the country's largest and top health professional authority, and in the Left we believe that you should listen to the Danish Health Authority. From this point of view, the recommendation is that treatment providers should not automatically be authorised when the alcohol treatment course, as it says, has been completed. We in the Left believe that it makes sense to examine what opportunities there may be for establishing genuine continuing training at a recognised educational establishment. And we in the Left fully share the point of departure that there is a great deal of variation in municipal offers and that it is simply not right. Some municipalities do well, and others have more to work with. And the Danish Health Authority is already well in the process of designing quality plans that can support both systematic and uniformity in the municipalities. Some may even remember the playback •Health, where you are, which addresses some of the challenges of municipal health interventions, a work that is a kind of precursor to the future health reform. A whole section of the playout is about high quality in the close health services. Seen from my chair, there is nothing to prevent a consideration of thinking alcohol treatment into that work as well, and then in this context call on the Danish Health Authority for a service check on the alcohol treatment area. But first of all, it is crucial that we get more knowledge of what is actually going on out there before we take new initiatives across the board. Just before the turn of the year, the Danish Health Authority published new national clinical guidelines for the treatment of alcohol abuse, and this is an important step in the right direction in order to ensure a more uniform treatment. The postal code must not determine which treatment is offered. With the new national clinical guidelines in hand, we in the Left see no immediate reason for introducing reference programmes now and here. As I mentioned at the outset, we in the Left support the intention behind the proposal for stronger action and greater uniformity in municipal alcohol treatment, and we welcome the fact that initiatives have already been taken which, in various ways, aim precisely to raise the bar so that more people will be offered better and more uniform treatment in the future. On the basis of the arguments put forward here, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. But we are happy to support a joint report which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141345	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141350	There was actually just because the rapporteur said that we should not start doing anything over our heads. And that's what made me just take the floor. Because this is something we've discussed several times before. It was, as I mentioned, up in 2010, when SF had a proposal similar to this and where we were told that there was an authorisation system for alcohol dealers right on the stairs. And we're still waiting away. The latest thing we have got here is the very thorough study from Alcohol & Society, where you have been in contact with a large part of the Danish municipalities to hear what the condition is, and it is quite clear that it is very, very fluctuating offer that is when you are seeking alcohol treatment. So I will in no way oppose the fact that you have a service check or that you obtain new information. I just find it difficult to understand what knowledge you think you are missing and how the rapporteur can say that this is something we do over our necks and heads. I think we have a great deal of knowledge about what it looks like today. And it is quite obvious that there is a need, both for an authorisation system, but also for some quality standards and a reference programme, which means that you meet a relatively uniform treatment system so that we do not get to play this treatment bingo.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141502	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141508	I fully share the starting point of the Enhedslisten and, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I share the intentions. There is a very, very large variety of municipal services available to citizens. That is simply not good enough. And yes, we know a lot, but there's also a lot we don't know. And that's why, from the Left chair, it makes great sense that we start a service check and get to know what's up and down what's working, what doesn't work and that on the basis of that service check you can launch the necessary initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141546	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen pressed herself in at the last second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141548	Thank you. It was in fact the rapporteur's last answer here that gave rise to a question. Because, in this way, I sign that the Left would also like to be included in a joint report. It makes really good sense. But we know a great deal about what is not working, where it does not work. We know, of course, that there are very large differences in what offers the municipalities can offer. So a service check can be good enough to get a mapping • you could also have called it. However, does it not make much sense now to address the question of how to get qualified staff to carry out the tasks that are there? So, every time a citizen with alcohol abuse meets an unqualified offer, it is both money out of the window, but it is also primarily a person and a family who is abandoned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141647	When we were negotiating the rate pool in the autumn, the government had put forward a proposal with a two-digit million priority for the competence centre for double-loaded alcohol dependents, i.e. Ringgården at Middelfart. That initiative was not supported in the pool of rates. We on the Left would have liked to have seen a two-digit million grant. There was no support for that. The initiative was shaved down, one might well say; at least it was heavily scaled down. I personally was very sorry about this, so I also think it sounds a little hollow when you have to hear SF talk about competences and skills raising, and that we have to do more. In other words, we had the chance in the pool of rates in the autumn to significantly strengthen a competence centre and the initiatives that are around it. But the movement circle and among other things. After all, the SF chose to turn down that priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141751	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141755	In fact, I do not think the rapporteur answered what I asked. I think the rapporteur was talking about something quite different. For one thing is to strengthen one kind of effort, and another is to strengthen another. I agree with the rapporteur that there are plenty of areas that need to be lifted. I think the rapporteur is quite right about this, and the proposal mentioned by the rapporteur is also one of them. However, this is not an answer to the question of whether we could at least ensure, by means of a specific training effort, that the practitioners who have to take care of citizens with alcohol problems actually have the necessary conditions and competences to carry out the task throughout the country. And therefore the question: could it be imagined that the Left would at least be involved in looking at exactly that part of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141847	Yes, I have made it very clear that we would very much have liked to have supported the centre of competence in Middelfart with a sum of two-digit million which the government proposed when we negotiated the pool of rates in the autumn. We would have liked to. Now we are somewhere else today; the venture pool agreement has landed, and we are quite happy with that too from the Left, although we are a little too sorry that this initiative was shaved down so badly. Now we are proposing a service check in line with what DF has talked about and as proposed by the Minister. And I also think it makes sense to do a service check, and when we then have the necessary knowledge of what it is for bets that work and what it is for bets that do not work, let us take the discussion again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141929	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110141944	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I share the proposalers' intention to ensure quality in the treatment of the unfortunately many alcohol-dependent Danes. It is important that we ensure a very good quality in the treatment of alcohol, since alcohol dependence is a serious problem which has not only devastating consequences for the dependents themselves but also for their relatives. Clearly, there are things that can be done better, not least about the great geographical inequality. However, I am also of the opinion that the Danish Health Authority actually has a strong focus on ensuring quality in alcohol treatment. Among other things: updated clinical guidelines on the treatment of alcohol dependence have been published, and last year the prevention package on precisely alcohol has been published, and the work I want to continue. I am pleased that the government will look into whether the training for the treatment provider can be established at a recognised educational establishment, because I fully agree that it is important that the right competences are included in the alcohol treatment process. Once a proper training has been set up, it can be considered whether a certification scheme or the like should be attached to it, but at the moment. The Danish Health Authority does not recommend automatic authorisation of practitioners, even if they have reviewed the Danish Health Authority's course series. So the Liberal Alliance does not therefore support the resolution, but clearly supports the intention behind it, and we are also very happy to take part in a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142131	Thank you. There is a brief comment, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142135	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would, of course, like to acknowledge the positive comments made in it. When I took the floor, it was because the rapporteur mentioned that the Danish Health Authority already had some guidelines for good alcohol treatment, and I would just like to point out that the study which Alcohol & Society has just published and in which people have been in contact with the municipalities shows that there is a very fluctuating standard. It's 43 percent. the municipalities, which do not have cooperation agreements with other actors such as social psychiatry, psychiatric emergency department or psychologist, although this is precisely indicated in the Danish Health Authority's advice material. There are more than one fifth who do not offer family offers and a quarter have not drawn up quality standards. In other words, there is still a very, very large room for improvement, and that is why I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says that, as the Health Authority already has some recommendations, that should be enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142236	But I didn't say that either. I didn't say it was enough. I have just said that there is much more that can be done better. And that is also why I say that I am very happy to take part in a report in which we can work together to improve the treatment of alcohol, because geographical inequality is a major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next in line is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142304	Thank you. This is an important resolution that we are discussing now, and I would like, as several have done, to start by focusing on children who grow up in families where you have alcohol problems and where you have alcohol dependence, because in my years as chairman of the Committee on Children's and Education, this has been one of the things I have been very concerned about. It can be very difficult to identify the problems that are in a family, because families are in all walks of life, in all socio-economic groups in society, and because children do not always show such a level playing field, if one can say so, symptoms or behaviour patterns. So I think this is a really, very important resolution, and it is very important to focus on the need for us to have a treatment and to have a uniform quality in relation to it. According to a study by a psychologist named Helle Lindgaard, alcohol problems in one or both parents or carers lead to a family environment characterised by conflicts, concealment, unpredictability, guilt and shame, and often there is no surplus to meet the needs of the child. It is really heartbreaking, and therefore it is important to provide adults with a treatment offer that can help them out of the problems they have and also to offer children who are part of these families. According to Alcohol & Society, there is a very large difference between what treatment is offered. Some people are waiting for these 14 days and in a few cases even longer. Some municipalities offer medical treatment, 23%. of the municipalities offer e.g. not debugging, and 28%. does not offer withdrawal treatment. And then there is also a very big difference between what is offered by treatment and whether it is individual conversations, whether it is group therapy, etc. It is not satisfactory that there should be such a difference in whether you are dependent on alcohol in Hørsholm or in Hanstholm, and I agree with the proposers that we need to ensure greater security for our citizens and also for their children in relation to the quality of treatment they are offered. However, I believe, and we believe in the alternative, that it is important here that it does not become standard treatments or standard solutions that are offered. It must be solutions and offers where you look at the needs of the individual, and it must be the individual person who has codecision. You have to look at the individual person when you offer these treatments, because in this way the individual person can also take ownership of his treatment himself. But I do not want to say so much more than to end by thanking Enhedslisten and SF for having tabled this important resolution, and in the alternative we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142641	Thank you. There are no brief comments and therefore there must be room for Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142649	Thank you. There are many people in Denmark who have a drinking problem. It's $140,000. And that also means, as other rapporteurs have said, that there are many children growing up in families where alcohol is a problem. And then it is worrying that we can see that the quality of the treatment offers is so fluctuating. That is why it makes good sense for the proposers to come here with an alcohol treatment package recommended by Alcohol & Society. The package contains three elements on which all the rapporteurs who have spoken before me have already spent a great deal of time. So I would just like to briefly mention them, namely the authorisation of the practitioners, ensuring that national clinical guidelines actually become reality, and a reference programme. And in the Radical Left we can support the resolution. One can then, of course, discuss whether the government can work as quickly as the proposers imagine. It can also be discussed whether it is necessarily part of the future health reform. As I understand it from the government, it is the most about the structure and closure of the regions, but we are still waiting in anticipation of what is coming. But from a radical point of view, we would certainly like to continue working on this. We can support the proposal and we can also work on, as other parties have said, landing a common text on it. Well, it's better than just getting shot down and turning into nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142838	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110142844	Thank you. It is common knowledge that alcohol abuse is serious, both for the social and health condition of the alcoholic, but certainly also for the surroundings of the alcoholic. Unfortunately, it is also a treatment area which has lived a step-motherly life for far too long, although there are great social and health benefits associated with real prevention and treatment. Too many alcoholics and their families must find that the postal code determines the quality of the treatment they can receive. It is true that Article 141 of the Health Act gives all citizens the right to free treatment within 14 days. The area is also regulated by health legislation, but there is confusion about the division of responsibilities between municipalities and regions and practitioners in relation to the alcohol problem. Alcohol treatment is not just alcohol treatment, and it is so obvious that the government addresses the challenges of seriously fluctuating quality in treatment in the health reform that we are still waiting for. We propose, together with the Enhedslisten, that this be done in the form of an alcohol treatment package. The alcohol treatment package must contain at least initiatives to ensure the authorisation of practitioners, quality requirements for investigation and treatment, and a reference programme for the investigation and treatment of alcohol abuse for the approx. 140,000 alcohol-dependent Danes. The aim of an alcohol treatment package must be to ensure a uniform and high quality for citizens across municipalities, an authorisation system for alcohol processors and a reference programme describing the tasks and ways of cooperation between hospitals, their own doctors and municipal treatment centres. We also propose the creation of a professional forum, for example. The Danish Health Service, which can ensure the development and qualification of continuing training of authorised practitioners. It is essential for patient safety that there should be continuous training and updating of authorised alcohol processors. If social and health arguments do not suffice, the derived costs of alcohol abuse may be an incentive to act on the problem. The cost of sick days, treatment and transfer income amounts to no less than 13 billion. kr. a year. So that's a lot of money. I think: what is there really to think about? We therefore also hope that there can be support for targeted action, and personally I am very pleased to hear that so many at least are also prepared to try to make some qualified offers in the form of a report, because it could also be some way along the way to really improving the effort, and that is what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143149	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one question, so it was a little early for me to say thank you. It's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143158	Once again, thank you to the SF and the Enhedslisten for tabling the motion for a resolution. Now, a moment ago, we heard the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say that this is something that has been worked on before and that, in 2010, Enhedslisten made a similar proposal, we must then understand. After all, it is also widely known that in 2011 there was a change of government and a government led by the Social Democratic Party, and that at some point the SF itself was also in government. After all, the Enhedslisten was a parliamentary basis for the former Socialist-led government. Now I'm just a little curious, because I feel like you're very impatient. We're in the Left too, and now something has to happen. So can the rapporteur tell us what was done in those years when there was government power and every opportunity to strengthen the alcohol treatment area? What were the three most important initiatives taken by the SF, together with the former Socialist-led government, at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143304	I think that one of the most important initiatives we took when, for a short period of time, SF out of the many years in which we have had a bourgeois government, and it's all the way back from 2001 that sat in government, was, I think, to correct an economy that had it really, really difficult. We have some other times now. We have the opportunity to do some other things, which is why we must, of course, address some of the social problems associated with alcohol in particular and do something about alcohol treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143333	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143337	Now we can understand that it is among other things. It is about raising the levels of competence and the fact that it is about authorising alcohol dealers. I am just a little curious about what initiatives were taken at the time. And if no initiatives were taken, perhaps the rapporteur could reveal what discussions there were in this area in the former Socialist-led government, of which the SF was a part. There must have been some work going on in those years when you were responsible. And I think it's okay to say that we didn't take a single initiative. But then there must at least have been some discussions within the government: what were they going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143426	I now think that the rapporteur knows very well that I did not actually sit in government in 2010. I was not part of the Danish Parliament in 2010, nor have I been involved in making the proposal. Nor have I been involved in the period in which we have been in government. There are others who have been able to use maternity leave here today as an excuse not to be completely up to date on what was going on last year, and in the same way I am also the rapporteur's response to what was going on during the period in which we sat in government. However, it is true that it was actually the SF that tabled the proposal back in 2010. I still think this is a very good proposal. I also think that this is the right time to take up the debate now that some people have actually made us aware that there is a huge problem with the way in which we deal with alcohol treatment across municipalities and that it is the postal number that determines what it is for a treatment you receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143522	Then there are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Erik Lund as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143530	Thank you. 140,000 people in Denmark are dependent on alcohol. 585,000 people in Denmark have a consumption of alcohol that harms their health physically. 860,000 people drink more than the high risk limit. 13 billion kr. Every year, citizens' drinking problems cost municipalities and regions. The figures speak their clear language. It is worrying when alcohol suddenly gets out of hand and suffers from the drinker, but also from the family and children. That is why we can say to the motion for a resolution which has now been tabled here that Conservatives are very much in agreement with the intention to ensure competence and quality requirements for the investigation of alcohol abuse, but we do not believe that the specific proposals that are here are appropriate in terms of ensuring the quality of alcohol treatment. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143637	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten
ParlaMint-DK_20190110143646	If you now belong to the 140,000 alcohol-dependent group in Denmark or are one of the 585,000 citizens who have an alcohol consumption that harms your health physically or mentally, and have been motivated to seek treatment, then it is completely arbitrary what offers you will be met with. It depends on your zip code you're going to participate in some kind of treatment bingo. This is a condition that we have recently been documented in the thorough review of the municipalities' offers, which the Association Alcohol & Society has carried out. It shows huge fluctuations in the offers offered by the municipalities. For example: it appears that only 66 per cent. of a municipality's alcohol dealers have taken one or more modules of the Danish Health Authority's qualifying alcohol treatment provider training, despite the recognised importance of a common professional basis for alcohol dealers. There are also large variations in the quality of the offers offered by the municipalities. 43% do not have cooperation agreements with other actors such as social psychiatry, psychiatric emergency department or psychologist, although it is apparent from the advice provided by the Danish Health Authority that co-operation with relevant bodies increases the likelihood of a good effect of treatment. Over a fifth do not offer family offers, and a quarter have not drawn up quality standards. This confirms an image we already feared: quality is simply too fluctuating. That's not fair. It is a cross-border recognition to come to the conclusion that you have an over-consumption of alcohol that you cannot control yourself. Often, efforts are needed in relation to both tracing and motivation to seek treatment. Once the headle has been overcome, you should not meet by chance, such as which municipality you live in. Section 141 of the Health Act gives citizens with problems of abuse the right to free treatment and the municipalities the obligation to provide this treatment within 14 days. Then the citizens are no longer entitled to one, and the municipalities are no longer obliged to do so. That's the law, but is that fair? It should be expected that a qualitative treatment offer will be met just as if it were a heart problem, col or diabetes. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the SF requires the government to draw up an alcohol treatment package. It is clear, as a former rapporteur has said, that when it says in the motion for a resolution that it should be from 1 February, it is of course because it made good sense at the time when the proposal was tabled. If we are going to land this with a joint report, of course we must look at it. That is not what matters. However, an alcohol treatment package must contain at least the following three components: authorisation of alcohol processors, quality requirements for treatment and a reference programme for the treatment of alcohol abuse. We are completely open to discussing other relevant elements that can support the objective of ensuring uniform high quality of treatment and strengthening legal certainty for alcohol-dependent and coherence in the health care treatment of alcohol-dependent patients. The authorization of alcohol dealers with a training requirement is absolutely necessary. As mentioned earlier, it is on average 66 per cent who have all or part of the Danish Health Authority's recommended alcohol treatment course. The proposers therefore consider that the alcohol package should include a requirement that the practitioners have completed the Health Authority's recommended alcohol treatment training from 2007 and have been granted an authorisation which can be presented on request to both authorities and citizens. By ensuring that the practitioners are authorised, we can expect both quality and uniformity in the treatment. The authorisation of therapists will also mean equality with treatment for other diseases, where citizens have the opportunity to complain to the Board of Patient Complaints, for example. by courses or by individual practitioners. Similarly, the Social Protection Agency's obligation must be extended to include supervision of authorised practitioners. Furthermore, it is essential for the working environment and patient safety that there should be continuous training and updating of authorised alcohol processors. The Government is therefore required to draw up a proposal for the establishment of a professional forum, for example in the field of vocational training. The Danish Health Service, which can ensure the development and qualification of the continuing training of authorised practitioners. The second point is the need for quality requirements for investigation and treatment. Paragraph 141 of the Health Act gives all citizens access to unpaid outpatient alcohol treatment within 14 days. At the same time, the Danish Health Authority updated the national clinical guidelines on the treatment of alcohol dependence in 2018. Unfortunately, both the reality and the study carried out by Alcohol & Society show that it is far from all 98 municipalities that comply with the Danish Health Authority's recommendations on good practice, and it is also different which treatment offers the municipalities provide alcohol-dependent. It is therefore necessary, on the basis of the Danish Health Authority's updated clinical guidelines for 2018, to require quality in the offers in the alcohol treatment that both private and municipal alcohol dealers must comply with. In addition, on the basis of the quality of alcohol treatment, we would like to see a clinical guideline drawn up by the Danish Health Authority in 2008 for the investigation of alcohol-dependent patients, including the reception of an acute patient, the reception of non-acute patients, the identification of the extent of abuse, the investigation of somatic and psychiatric disorders at the same time and the visitation to treatment. As the last and third points, we propose that a reference programme be drawn up to ensure greater consistency in treatment for the citizen. The survey from Alcohol & Society shows that 53 per cent. of municipalities do not have cooperation agreements with general practice or hospitals on mental, somatic or social consequences related to alcohol, despite the fact that about half of citizens with alcohol problems at the same time suffer from one or more mental illnesses, that alcohol overuse is directly related to 200 physical secondary diseases, and that alcohol problems often cause a wide range of social problems. Similarly, new figures from the Danish Health Data Protection Agency show that out of all citizens who were in alcohol treatment in the municipalities, only 5% were. referencing from the hospitals and only 6%. referred to by his own doctor or general practice. Therefore, the Danish Health Authority must draw up a reference programme which further describes the responsibility of the hospital, its own doctor, municipal and private alcohol treatment and institutions for tracing, referring and treating alcohol problems and the associated mental and somatic diseases. With regard to the financing of the proposal, which we are, of course, also willing to discuss, in particular, the cost of an educational qualification for alcohol processors, we propose the reintroduction of the additional levy on alcohol drinks. This will generate revenue of approx. 35-40 million kr. In relation to the funding, it can also be noted that the then KORA calculated today's VIVE in 2017 that the additional municipal expenditure on citizens with alcohol problems amounts to 3.5 billion. kr. Taking regional expenditure into account, the then KORA estimated the cost of 13 billion. kr. annual. But the main reason is that when citizens who are affected by over-consumption of alcohol take the step and seek help, they should meet with authorised practitioners, a professionally qualified offer and a guarantee of consistency in treatment. We find that the only decent thing. Fortunately, I can hear from the debate here today that there is also a broad understanding of this and a broad consensus on this. I would say, in relation to the critical remarks that have been made in relation to funding, that we are completely open to discussing this. That's not what's crucial about this. I have mentioned earlier that, in relation to the start date of this or when the government is to present a proposal, we are, of course, also completely open to looking at it that is not what matters. What is crucial is that we get a new track set, that we get this going, in other words both in terms of authorisation, quality standards and reference programme, because we have heard this debate time and again and again, and because we have been waiting for initiatives to come. That is why I think it is a good thing to hear that there is broad support for us to have some sort of joint report and that that report also shows that we need to take initiatives now, while at the same time getting a quality check done in the municipalities. However, as I have heard from the debate, there is also a great understanding that it is already possible, with the knowledge we have today, to initiate initiatives based on the knowledge we have. I shall look forward to that, hopefully, in a joint report. But thank you very much for your comments, and thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110144536	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110144551	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110144613	First of all, I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising awareness of the issue outlined in B 28. Although we do not always agree, I actually find that we have a common desire to lift the psychiatry in Denmark into a new and better future. I think we have taken a big step with the Psychiatry Action Plan of the autumn and the subsequent political agreements, but that does not mean that we have achieved our goal. That is why I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we are dealing with here with an issue which we must today's motion for a resolution on the right to be declared healthy shows precisely that we must continue to focus on how to improve conditions for people with mental illness. Unfortunately, there is still a widespread misconception that a mental illness is also a chronic illness. Schizophrenia, you are for the rest of your life. Studies show that 1 in 5 patients with schizophrenia fully recovers and lives without treatment and symptoms, and others live without symptoms of their disease as long as they take their medication and follow their treatment. As long as they and their surroundings are aware of symptoms and possible relapses, as one should also be in serious somatic illness, we must help them by not imposing unnecessary restrictions on their further lives. I therefore fully support the purpose and purpose of the proposal, and I would also like to propose that we put ourselves together across political divides to find a solution to the problems outlined by B 28. However, for purely technical reasons, I do not think that these are the best proposals on how to solve the problems proposed in B 28. I mean, for example. not that the answer is to delete previous courses of treatment in the medical records or the like, and I would like to elaborate on that, just as I would like to suggest a different approach to this issue that I see we agree that we should have a solution to. If I would recommend a different approach to the problem, it is not, as I said, because I disagree with the objective or with the problems that the proposal is trying to solve, but it must also be said that this is a rather technical proposal on some points, in relation to what specific solutions are being proposed, and that also unfortunately means that, on some points, the proposal is based on erroneous grounds and therefore may actually end up having a distorted solution to what is the real issue. The proposal is based, among other things, on: on the grounds that there is a difference between how to get well informed in somatics and psychiatry, and that difference then leads, according to the proposers, to a difference in how citizens are made in a wide range of other contexts. If you take the medical profession and the Danish Health Authority's assessment of how diagnostic codes and patient records are linked together, you have to say that the premise is not correct. In general, the Danish Health Authority points out that there is no talk of health reports either in the somatics or in the psychiatry, but that is what we are talking about as citizens and as people with each other, and asking if a person has recovered is a perfectly natural way of talking to each other. However, this is not necessarily the case in the diagnostic codes in the way in which patient records are built up, and this is also one of the points raised by the Danish Health Authority in relation to the issues which may relate to the actual form of the resolution. Instead, what we are talking about is whether the symptoms of a given disease are no longer present. In daily speech it will mean that you are healthy, if you are free of symptoms, but that is not necessarily what you then write into a journal. Nowadays, this health report is possible for both somatic and psychiatric patients, and as such it is also done in the same way, by e.g. that the doctor writes into the journal that the patient is without evidence of clinically active disease or similar, which is such a more professional, clinical term that one does not have an active disease, that is, what we would refer to as being healthy in our daily speech. There is a widespread perception that people, for example, are being treated differently. In the field of cancer diseases, a fixed time limit is worked on when cancer patients can be called symptom-free. According to the National Health Service, that's not correct. No time limit has been set by the health authorities as to when you are well if you are a cancer patient. But what we know from the statistical probability of relapse is that the risk is greatest in the first 5 years after diagnosis, and therefore patients are often followed in the first 5 years in order to detect possible relapses. But it is not the same as that the patient is then declared healthy after 5 years, but rather that it can be said with a certain probability that the patient will not experience relapse. The Ministry of Health and the Elders has also asked the Danish Health Authority whether it is possible to do something similar in the field of psychiatry, but the Danish Health Authority does not believe that it has sufficient knowledge today to be able to set such a fixed time limit as to when it can be stated that psychiatric patients no longer have the same risk of relapse. There is therefore a need for a great deal of attention to be paid to the individual patient, and there may also be a need to change the culture that may exist throughout the psychiatric treatment system, in relation to the fact that patients are more likely to be free of symptoms and that they are also actively included in patients' records. There are no rules which prevent doctors from stating in the record that the patient no longer has symptoms of psychiatric illness and thus is de facto healthy as we would say in everyday speech. So in the same way as in the somatics, where doctors may be more aware and aware of getting it into the file. As I said at the outset, I do not believe that the answer is to delete data from the medical records, but that is what B 28 also proposes. The medical record is an important working tool for health professionals, and it also forms an important part of the documentation in relation to patient complaints and claims if such ones arise. Therefore, I do not believe that it is in the patient's interest for the disease history to disappear, nor is it if the patient has relapsed at a later stage. And that is why, in my view and in the view of the government, the proposal as it stands today, namely B 28, will not solve the problems which B 28 actually points out and which we agree that we jointly need to focus on. After all, patients will not have the rights that they do not have today in relation to the examples mentioned by the proposers, including those which lie outside the health system. The proposers believe that it is a former psychiatric diagnosis that has an impact on citizens' rights and that citizens experience inappropriate discrimination. That is actually the view of which I agree, on a very long stretch, that we are experiencing examples. But we do not believe that this can be resolved with the solution proposed in B 28. I would like to thank the SF for raising the issue, because this is a welcome opportunity to dig into the substance of some of the problems that may be. In preparing the motion for a resolution, the Ministry of Health and the Elders has obtained contributions from a little more than a handful of other ministries, including the Ministry of Health and the Elders. from some of the places where the proposers state that citizens with previous psychiatric diagnoses experience discrimination, and I will certainly not deny that they experience differences in the way in which their cases are dealt with. In fact, I am quite sure that they are doing so, and when I look at the contributions we have received, I have to say that in many cases it is not a question of the overall legal rules in this area which are in line with this discrimination against people with mental illness, but that in the vast majority of cases it is a question of the general health and medical condition of the citizen being included in the assessment of the citizen's case and that in this way it is both somatic and psychological diseases that are involved. In many cases, health information is not provided to the various authorities from the health records of the citizens. On the other hand, it is separate medical services which are drawn up in connection with the handling of the individual's case and which then end up as the basis for some of the things which, in some cases, subsequently constitute discrimination. That is why I do not believe in B 28's premise that a change in hospital records would then strengthen the rights of this group of people, both because, as I have said, it is already possible to state in the hospital record that a psychiatric patient no longer exhibits symptoms of illness, and because the hospital record is not necessarily the basis for the decisions taken by other authorities either. That's why I think we're gonna have to dig a spade deeper than what's just connected to the medical records. I do not think, therefore, that the solution presented is really the solution to the problems that we are looking at in this area and which B 28 highlights; that is where I agree with the proposers. Overall, the current legislative framework already supports what the proposers want to do with the resolution, in other words the fact that you can write in that the patient is free of symptoms. But then I don't think we should stop here or just say that you should be better at writing into the file. In fact, I believe that we should take up the glove and try together to solve the problems that very many people with psychiatric diagnosis experience. That is why I propose that we start a broad-based work to find out where the problems arise. Because it can actually be in several terms. It could be the superior laws, and then we have a job in here. It may be in the professional guides, and it must also be followed up, but it may also be in the case workers' practice or in the interpretation of the rules, and then it is some other solutions that need to be found. I myself believe that there is something to be done if we examine the different professional objectives in the different disciplines, where both the patient organisation and the professional organisations find that there are problems. I can say that in my own area of responsibility, as a preparation for this motion for a resolution, we have also looked at what we could have that could be an opportunity to clean up. There I can just point out one example: a guide from the Patient Safety Management Board, which deals with the issue of driving licences, for example. is recommended that patients who have a history of schizophrenia or bipolar disorder receive their driving licences for a limited period of 2 to 5 years, depending on the duration of their stable condition. This is, of course, a very good example of the fact that it is not necessarily legislation, but that it may well lie in a guide and where there is a great need for us to then systematically review things, in relation to what can lead to unbiased discrimination against people with psychiatric diagnoses and past psychiatric diagnoses. It is also important that we ensure that the latest knowledge in this area really also enters society. I think, in fact, that some of these problems are still missing because people do not know enough about mental illness and that it is possible to get well, even if you have had quite serious mental problems. I do not think that is of bad will, but I think it is only necessary to note that there are probably both case officers in the private, in the municipalities, in the regions and in the state, who, in the best sense and on the basis of a precautionary principle, make decisions in cases that lead to negative discrimination against people with mental illness simply because they do not know enough about mental illness. This is among other things. also what specialist Per Vendsborg and a number of experts point to in their discussion paper in the Weekwriting for Doctors of October 2018, where they write, quote: Actual discrimination is usually not specified in laws and regulations, but hidden in daily practice. That is why we also need to clarify where something is wrong so that we can solve the problems on a proper and enlightened basis. As I said, therefore, I would like to propose that we sit together across the political parties and start work which can also ensure that the right knowledge is much more accessible to the relevant staff. And then we have to get away from the box thinking, which unfortunately is about mental illness, how many people believe that because you have once had a diagnosis, you have it forever and that it always plays the same role in your life, and instead look at the individual's life, situation, disease history and also the risk of possible relapses, which require that the relevant parties have sufficient knowledge of mental illness, both in the health system, but equally outside the health system. So when decisions are made in future in cases involving people with previous mental problems, we must ensure that those decisions are made on an informed basis about mental illness. As I have said, therefore, I would suggest that we start work in three stages with the broad involvement of the relevant parties, be it the professional organisations, be it the patient organisations, be it the agencies and authorities in the field so that we can look into the issue. It is, it may be said, a three-step rocket, where the first phase will be a cover-up of the problems, where the second phase will be on the basis of a cover-up also to look at a change of practice, where we can look at how to solve the problems and where we also look at countries in the vicinity of Denmark and look at how they solve some of the challenges and where, in the third and final stages, we get the solutions across both within and outside the healthcare system. I hope that this will help to eliminate the misunderstandings about mental illness that exist, both among the relevant health care professionals, but also among case practitioners in municipalities, regions, the state, the private sector, which makes decisions that adversely affect people with previous mental disorders, as it seems right now. If there is support for this, I will start by calling for wide-ranging negotiations where we can discuss more closely what we can do in this area and also elaborate on why it is that we believe there is a need for a different solution to what is pointed out in B 28, so that we can jointly help to ensure that there is no unspeakable discrimination on the basis of past mental illness, and so that we also jointly lift psychiatry into a new and better future, where hopefully there will also be an eradication of misunderstandings, taboos and prejudices about mental illness, and we can hopefully jointly help to ensure that people with previous mental illness have better conditions and a better basis for moving forward in life.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150123	There are a few questions. The first is Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150128	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for taking the intention of the motion for a resolution seriously. I am very pleased about that, and I think that the idea that coal graves are even more so is very good. I also think it could drive along with this decision being made. I need to get rid of this kind of misunderstanding. Because when we believe that you should have the right to be declared healthy, that does not mean that you should have the right to have everything that is in your file deleted. That's not really it. But there is one thing that is important to hold on to here, and that is: there is and sometimes you have to treat people differently in order to treat them equally, and right here we need a tool where, as a citizen with a paper in his hand, you can go out and say: I don't have that suffering anymore. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a question. I am not a lawyer, I am the legislator, of course I need the expertise to explain how to put it in concrete terms, i.e. how to create a tool that people can go out with when they are confronted with the injustice, and say:
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150254	Well, first of all, as I said, there is a need for a change in culture in relation to the fact that, as a doctor in psychiatry, you are much better able to write in also that now the patient is free of symptoms. In other words, it is a change in culture which must take place in parallel with what I am proposing. Because it is also about using the methods used in the somatics to a greater extent in relation to getting it clearly marked, so that it is not an outstanding one. And that is actually what I hear is one of the intentions in relation to it. That is not the same thing as being healthy, but getting down on the record, for example. is free of symptoms, or that you do not have relapses and other things, can be significant. But that is not all that is essential. It is also important, in relation to what knowledge one has in different places, or what guidance there is, that may not relate to making an individual estimate, but just relate to some square relationships. And there I gave a concrete example from the Board for Patient Safety, which is why I think that, in fact, there is a need for that cover to move forward and also to what is really the substance of this: the discrimination that people with previous mental disorders encounter in different places in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150401	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150402	Yes, but these are places where it is the law and the counsellors for whom we are responsible. But where people also face this discrimination is out in the world. I heard about a woman who couldn't take out a life insurance policy. She had to do a cross-insurance with her husband, who was supposed to take a business loan at the bank, and they couldn't take that. And we can't discover all those places, necessarily. So what I would like is for the citizen to have some documentation in this way that can be shown in cases where discrimination is involved. And it is already the case today that it says that you are free of symptoms or are in full remission or something. It does not have that meaning; it is still not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150446	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150448	But I think we need to get to the bottom of it. So, as I said earlier, on the basis of this motion for a resolution, we have had a call from a large number of the other ministries, both in the field of adoption and in the field of insurance, which the questioner also mentions. And there is a need to get to the bottom, both in what the legal basis is, where there may be guidance and where there may be practices that differ. Because I think that's only the way we really get all around. And then I fully acknowledge that it is a greater job, but I do believe that it is indeed a job that we must take on in order to ensure that people with a history of mental illness are not confronted with prejudice or discrimination, which is then rooted in different parts of either legislation, practice or other. That is why I fully acknowledge that this is a major task, but I also believe that it is a task that we need to take on in order to resolve the problem effectively and not just on paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150537	Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150538	I am also very, very pleased that the Minister supports the intention of this SF proposal. If I have understood the Minister correctly, some of the biggest cracks are the fact that you do not think the word 'healthy' can be used, that you do not want to delete data on previous diagnoses and that you cannot make a general deadline. Mrs Trine Torp has mentioned the deletion of previous diagnoses. Nor are we in favour of this, nor do I believe it is in this proposal. I do not understand the proposal either, that there must be a record of good health, and I do not read it in such a way that a general deadline should be set. In fact, I read that there must be a professional assessment in the specific cases. Of course, a deadline cannot be set for all people with different diagnoses, who are also different as people, and who have had diagnoses of different severity, to recover. But at some point you should be able to go in and say: Now you have been free of symptoms for so long and have not relapsed; now it makes no sense to maintain that diagnosis. But is it true that the three are the biggest knots from the Minister's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150636	Well, it's possible today. And I think it is a culture and a practice that must also be changed, be different, among our health professionals in psychiatry. In other words, one uses the possibilities that already exist in the journal system, in line with what lies in the somatics, in relation to getting more written in when people are symptom-free. And that one also gets actively assessed: are we dealing here with a citizen in which, as such, we do not need to continue to have some add-diagnosis from when he was 16 years old to fill? Because perhaps it was even wrong, perhaps it was relevant, perhaps you are somewhere else where you have gotten better and where you have come on the other side. And then, of course, it shouldn't just stand and hang like such a blinking sign. And it is important that the methods that already exist there, both in the somatics and in the psychiatry, should also be used in the possibilities in the medical records. But that is not really where I see the real problem. That is certainly not what our preliminary survey on the motion for a resolution shows, so that is what will solve the problem. We believe that we need to systematically review where there may be laws, where there may be guides and where there may be practices leading to discrimination against people with previous mental disorders. And we actually believe that we should start this work together so that we can really solve these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150754	Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150755	In my optics, you should do both. However, the Minister himself says that people can already write into records, and it also means that people are symptom-free and in full remission. The only question is, how long can you have it? In other words, how long has it been since that description has been given and that a diagnosis is still maintained for that person? Because if it's been 10 years since it's been written into a file and you haven't relapsed, does it make sense to still have that diagnosis? The minister himself says so: it is a case of former psychiatric disorders. How long do you need to be stamped for having had a psychiatric disorder?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150826	But if you've had cancer or you've had your appendix removed, it's gonna be in your file forever and ever. And that is why I am not in favour of deleting, and that applies both to somatic disorders and to psychiatric disorders. We cannot simply delete a history of disease, and I believe that we have to stick to the fact that it has to be parallel, that is, the system we have for somatics and for psychiatry. But what we are too bad for, and that is what I fully acknowledge, is to write in for a lot of people with mental disorders, that they are symptom-free, that they are in full remission, as Trine Torp also says, and what professional terms are now used in different variations. It is also too bad for some places to use the latest professional knowledge to really follow it up. Well, now I just said that every fifth who's had schizophrenia is going to recover completely. But it is also so important to reflect on the professional environment, in our psychiatric environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150917	Then we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110150932	I would like to thank the SF very much for raising this debate, and I would also very much like to thank the Minister for Health for a very good answer, I think, to the issue that has been raised and which we must ensure that we are dealt with in a very objective and proper and thorough manner. The proposal here signals something that touches us all. Why is it that it has to have consequences for someone for the rest of your life if you have had a disease, whether it is somatic or psychiatric? Because it does not suit our societies, where we try to balance and balance equality completely democratically. We have all the knowledge that there are and have been many prejudices about psychiatric disorders, but as long as we do not get to grips with issues like these, we have not addressed at all what, in such common practice, has consequences for those who have had a psychiatric condition. I was sitting in my preparation thinking that this whole thing about a disease that you've had or had in the past has consequences for you is something we know. We know this in relation to those who have epilepsy. If it is difficult, it will have consequences if you are to have a driving licence. And now the Minister also mentions that schizophrenia is written in as having consequence when you need a driving licence. I just think that the difference has been and is that if you have epilepsy, you get your own doctor much easier to estimate that there have been no seizures, that you are in a disease-free period and that there is no risk for anyone other than a psychiatric disease. When it comes to psychiatry, there is not the naturalness that lies in going up and talking to your own doctor. And if it had consequences, it should have been the natural thing to do. I think it's a really good idea... and that's what I had prepared as being the Social Democrat's attitude to this... that we should have this spread out. We need to do a really thorough job. And I just want to say, Minister, you don't have to call us; I just think you should start your officials on this job already. We will have a spring that will be marked by campaigning and everything else. I think this is so important that this is also why I thank SF for taking the initiative, and now we've got some announcements from the minister and the government that you just have to get started: do this work; start benchmarking with other countries, so that, as the minister also says, see how they do it. Because we need to get to the bottom of this. The fact that prejudices and stigma are hanging on to psychiatric illness is something we all have, and especially those of us who are legislators, a huge responsibility in our everyday life. This is both where we can ensure equality between somatics and psychiatry, but also where we can get visibility and explain and tell how completely unreasonable it is that prejudices against our population and their disease patterns are hanging on in certain areas. So, overall, I think it is good to have a broad-based work done, as the Minister says. I also think that we can already start thinking about how to organise things in practice. The general practitioner, whom I mentioned just now, makes a great many health certificates, which are used in a great many contexts, and they make some money on that, but it is, after all, a legal document. And there I think that if, in relation to psychiatric diagnoses too, some firm wording could be made, and it was said to make a parallel to the epileptic, that it could be obtained if you are disease-free or are generally free of symptoms, it might be helpful for a great many patients. We do not support the resolution as it stands here, but I think that we have already achieved not just one step but many steps forward in what should be the process. And I guarantee that we will support one hundred percent from the Social Democrat side. Then I would say to the SF that I have had some doubts as to whether you really want things to be deleted from the record, because you write on page 2 something about it is in the fourth paragraph that previous psychiatric disorders will therefore not be able to be deleted from patient records. It caused some confusion when I prepared myself, but here I would just like to say that I share the view expressed by the Minister, namely that we have had that discussion many times politically. Patient records are a patient safety document, and it is also a legal document. Therefore, it must be very difficult to delete things unless something is written in directly that is quite wrong. We have also had political discussions on this in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151501	There are a few questions. Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151504	Just to take the last thing first: what is actually stated in the resolution is that we want to give citizens the right to receive a health report on a psychiatric diagnosis, and what is stated in the comments is a statement of what it is like today. This may, of course, create some confusion, but when we adopt resolutions, it is the text of the motion for a resolution that is, in fact, the essential, and not just, whether it is worded quite clearly in the comments. In fact, I have just a little doubt, as I had understood from the debate in recent days, that at least Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil had been out to say that the Social Democrats supported the proposal. So I just want to hear the rapporteur: what does it really take for the Social Democrats to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151558	I think that, with the three quarters or the hour of debate that we have had on this proposal, I can at least interpret it as being longer in the political process than is actually envisaged in the motion for a resolution. With regard to the issue of being able to make a full report, I think that we have actually received the legal statement on whether or not health reporting principles are being applied in the context of medical records, and that is not being done. You don't do it in relation to diagnostic codes either. So we have to make sure that we do something that fits into the systems we have so that they play together so that we do not create new confusion for patients. I believe that the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF here really is a good one for us to be able to give psychiatric patients, in other words those who have previously been psychiatric patients, but who are now healthy, an opportunity to have a document so that they can say: it should not have consequences for me in any context that I have had a diagnosis five or ten or fifteen years ago. That is the position of the Socialist Group. And when I say that we need to work more broadly with it, it is because I believe that in this way we will be able to achieve more things than just introducing a healthy reporting option.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151715	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151716	I would really like to do a lot more in this area, so I welcome all the other initiatives. But with regard to the argument that it is not done in advance, I would like to ask: are we as politicians not put in the world to change things that obviously do not work? In other words, when we have a practice in the health system which, at least for this group of citizens, is quite openly holding up their opportunities for life, is social democracy a party that simply wants to preserve the system, or is it actually inclined to change what does not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151754	In fact, I do not understand why Mrs Trine Torp can interpret my words in the way that we want to preserve. I think I stand almost extremely and say that we are exactly open to change here. I have come up with a concrete proposal which I am actually surprised that no use is made of, and that is that the health certificate from the general practitioner might be a document that could be used in many different contexts and in which it could be written to use the rhetoric of the Minister and the Health Service: there are no signs of disease here. This is also the way to create an opportunity for practitioners to do it overnight. Then it's stored somewhere in the file. Because you can say, and so have I, with only half an ear, heard some psychiatrists say in the debate on P1: Should you be able to get into an ambulance and get such good reports done, or how should you do it? Here I think we should try to set up a setup which, once and for all, provides a constructive and easy framework for those who have previously been mentally ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151858	Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151859	I would like to follow up because I personally also had a little difficulty in getting to know what it was that made it so practical that it was not possible to support the proposal as it stands. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen says that this is about the fact that you don't want to delete information from the files. We in the Radical Left do not support that either. But we do not read that out of the proposal either. Of course, it must appear if you have had some kind of suffering in the past, just as it does in the somatics, so that doctors can take history into account. But it's different. You can write that you no longer meet the diagnostic criteria or have the diagnosis, although it still appears that you have had a condition. We do not read it in the proposal. Secondly, there's the whole thing about using the word "healthy" or "healthy" word. I mean, I don't read that there's necessarily a "rask" in the file either. We can discuss how to do it. But is it correct to understand that if you can get beyond the two things that are not to be understood in such a concrete way, then the Social Democratic Party can be a part of it? Or are there other things that stand in the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110151950	I would like to make that clear. I also said this in my rapporteur's speech or at least in the reply. We believe that there is a need for a more thorough discussion of the whole of this complex area prior to making political decisions in this area. The timetable is also a problem; I am sure that it was the same which was given as the cause of the previous motion for a resolution. But that is because we believe that a broad, thorough discussion is needed and, in fact, it has already started politically now. And I very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152024	Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152025	I am also very positive about what the Minister is proposing. But as far as I understand the motion for a resolution, it is precisely the intention that work should be set in motion; as a member of Parliament, we do not have the opportunity to do all the legislative preparatory work that a minister has. So that is exactly what we need to get started. And that's just why I'm asking. One can, of course, make an amendment to the resolution and one can make a contribution to the report. If you could get around those who bang with, whether you should use the word "healthy" or whether you should delete information, could the Social Democrats look at it as it stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152056	I have made it clear that we need to change this and we need to create opportunities in this area, so that you can somehow put a line over something that can compromise you in your life. However, the motion for a resolution here states that the government is required to introduce, by 1 April 2019 at the latest, a right for the citizen to receive a health report in relation to a psychiatric diagnosis. It is clear, of course, and that is why I say that we certainly have a challenge in relation to the timing, because this haste does not serve this cause at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152126	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the ranks of rapporteurs. The next is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152135	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Socialist People's Party for the proposal in which I support the intentions. But there are also some things in it that I would have liked to have been clearer. I also believe that this thing about getting a diagnosis, perhaps as a child or as a young person, and having to wear it for the rest of your life... it's in your journal... we should change. We've just had a bill on health data here earlier this day... it's been a few hours since we talked a lot about what it is for data to be shared and where the data goes, compared to where you are in life. I know of several examples where they may be resourceful parents. Let's say a pilot gets a kid who wants to be a pilot or it's the father who wants the son to take the same job as himself and he knows what's going to happen if there's going to be a psychiatric diagnosis in the file. Because then you can't be a pilot, which means that some of those who are resourceful don't go to the public and get this diagnosis. So I think we also have a false sense of security if we think it's the most important thing to make these things visible. I believe that we need to look at it more constructively and professionally. In the first place, when I read the motion for a resolution itself, I supported one hundred percent, but I would also like to say that some professionals, i.e. some psychiatrists, have been out and have made various input which makes me think that this also requires something more. I would like us to have an expert meeting or a hearing on how to do these things. One of the things I could see there could be a future in is that, when it's been a while, you can shut down some journal notes so they don't show up. Let us say that a 13-14-year-old has had one or more psychiatric diagnoses; today it is the case that many first get one diagnosis, then they get another, and then they turn it into a third, depending on who they are visiting, but it is because of various events in life and influences that ring off, and which they then feel nothing at 10-15 years later. Do you still have to leave those diagnoses when you open the file? I believe that we should be able to unlock it so that it does not pop up. You can do so in connection with many other things in relation to our records, and some of those things I would like us to work with and look at in relation to what is possible. For there are other rapporteurs who have said this about deleting it, and we are not in favour of deleting the file unless it is incorrect information and I know that the ministry is working on a job. For this matter we have had up earlier in the Folketing, that is to say that if there is something wrong, it must be able to be deleted. Something that has happened shouldn't be deleted, but that's why we can say lock it, cap it inside, for later use, if needed at some point. These are some of the things I would like to have a look at. Having said that, we also need to look at the stigma we see. We have made a great deal of it over the past few years, but that is just not enough. Why is it that people have to be discriminated against because they have a psychiatric diagnosis? I think we should also look at this in relation to the fact that some rules are being laid down that people should not be discriminated against because they have had a psychiatric diagnosis. So I think there is a two or three thing we should have looked at, but I fully support that we should have done something. So if we can work on it in some way in committee and get some agreements on what it takes, then the Danish People's Party will help to see how we can move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152607	Thank you. Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152609	There are a lot of things you can do to detigmatize, and I would really like to be a part of that, and the SF would really like to be a part of that. What this proposal is about is whether you want to give people a right to be declared healthy, and then you can call it something other than healthy, but at least something that means that those people who experience this discrimination in concrete terms out there in the last few days have been bombarded with examples, and that is one horrible example after the other that they can show so that they can say: "Try to hear what you are building your decision on." Will the Danish People's Party support a resolution which contains such a right to be declared healthy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152702	Mrs Trine Torp contradicts herself because Trine Torp says first that it is not about getting well, yet the motion for a resolution says 'rask'. After all, we support it, but not as it says, because there is something about deletion in the comments, and the comments are part of the proposal, regardless of the fact that it is not written in it, even though there are psychiatrists who say that you cannot get well. Mrs Trine Torp also says: can we find another word for it? Yes, but if you change the resolution and pluck it out, it is just not that resolution. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we want to work to make the resolution work. It just looks difficult with the words that have been inserted into the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152751	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152753	After all, there are many things that can be done with a motion for a resolution. You can table amendments to it and you can make a contribution to it in the report. So what does it take for the Danish People's Party to say, as it were: okay, now we have made an amendment or a contribution to the report, which means that we can now vote in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152816	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I would like to bring in some professional expertise, have an expert hearing in committee, and then see what we could change in the proposal so that it can get through with what could be realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152834	Then we thank the rapporteur and move forward, and the next is Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110152844	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution on the right to be declared healthy for one's psychiatric diagnosis and the possibility of deleting data from medical records, because I have to say that this is how I have understood the motion for a resolution, and I understand that there are other rapporteurs who do, but that is not what the intention of the SF is. However, I will be able to comment on that later. There is no doubt that there are people who have or have had a psychiatric diagnosis who feel stigmatised or negatively discriminated against, for example. in relation to the renewal of driving licences, adoption or the possibility of becoming a foster family. We in the Left have a great deal of sympathy for the frustration that it may cause when you feel that legal certainty is being put under pressure or if a diagnosis or limitation of civil rights is wrongly linked together. That is why I would like to begin by saying that we in the Left are in favour of finding solutions, and we certainly have sympathy for the proposal. There are several reasons why we do not immediately support the proposal in its present form, and I will come back to that in a moment, just as I shall return to what options we in the Left could immediately see ourselves in. The problem is relevant and action is needed. I would like to emphasise this point. A health record is primarily a working tool for health professionals and an important document, for example, by: complaints and damages. It is therefore essential that, as a rule, the file cannot be corrected, deleted or modified, as it provides both safety for patients and practitioners. From my chair, therefore, it does not make sense to jeopardise patient safety by allowing correction or modification, other than in case of maltreatment and misdiagnostic. SF wants to equate somatics and psychiatry. We also have that wish in the Left. That's one of them. That is why we have secured the same rights by, for example. investigation in somatics and psychiatry. But whether you work with patients in somatics or psychiatry, it is crucial that your diagnosis and treatment are shown in the journal. You could have relapses or complications, no matter where you're a patient or what's wrong with you. If you have an acute psychosis or anxiety, or if you suffer from Aspergers, it must be stated in the record, just as the record must show if you have surgery for appendicitis, have had a broken arm or have problems with the pelvic floor. SF wants you to be able to get a health report, as you call it, within a given time limit or period when you are free from symptoms. To introduce such a term would be an innovation, because the concept of health reports is not used in psychiatry or somatics, whether you have had a psychosis or a pneumococcal infection. Psychiatric illness is individual, and the recovery and risk of relapse of persons depends on many factors, and this makes it difficult, if not impossible, such per year. promise to set a time limit. Man himself, the history of illness and factors in the individual's environment are some of the factors involved. On the other hand, one can be declared free of symptoms in both psychiatry and somatics. And that makes sense. But even if we have good tools today, both in terms of records and concepts, that does not solve the problem. And we in the Left want more systematic work to be done in the future on stigmatisation and cultural change, so that we avoid negative discrimination due to a psychiatric diagnosis in a medical record. We would like to see a look at some of the countries with which we normally compare ourselves with the process of destigmatisation, in order to draw inspiration for cross-cutting action, for example. case workers in both the state, the regions and the municipalities can be better dressed. As I mentioned at the outset, the issue is relevant and we are happy to take part in discussions on solutions. It may either be in a report that some have proposed, it may be in discussions with the Minister for Health, and it may also be, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just suggested, by jointly planning a consultation under the auspices of the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly and becoming more aware of the issues. We are happy to take part in this on the Left side. We fully recognise that there is a real problem and that there is a need to look at solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110153301	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110153312	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for tabling the motion for a resolution and thus raising this issue. For it is absolutely crucial to overcome the stigma that citizens with a mental illness experience from the notion that a mental illness is a chronic illness that you always bear. Fortunately, the reality today shows us that a great many citizens are recovering from a mental illness. It is therefore also quite unreasonable for citizens to experience restrictions on their rights as a result of having at some point had a diagnosis after having been in contact with the health care system. As the SF rightly points out in the motion for a resolution, it can have consequences in many aspects of education opportunities, in relation to insurance issues, civil rights opportunities, etc. Why should the risk be greater for a citizen who has been diagnosed in the past than for a person who has not, for the sole reason that one has had a mental illness in the past? It is also to be feared that some citizens will refrain from seeking treatment simply because they do not dare to take the risk that it will be registered and that it can therefore have an impact on their opportunities in the future. For Enhedslisten it is quite obvious that it should be a fundamental principle that one does not discriminate solely because of a diagnosis. It must always be based on a concrete, individual assessment, both in relation to what diagnosis it is about, but also in relation to its relevance to what it should be. And that is the case, whether it is in the psychiatric or in the somatic sphere. However, we also have some concerns about the proposal as it has been formulated here. I think that the guiding principle should be that there should be no discrimination on the basis of diagnosis alone and that a specific individual assessment should be carried out. As some of the previous rapporteurs have said, there may be doubts as to how the proposal puts citizens who are well-treated or who have learned to master their own lives despite a mental illness. They will not necessarily be able to be declared healthy even if they are actually free of symptoms. I think it is worth considering whether this could lead to a further stigmatisation of those who have not been declared healthy. It shouldn't be the case that if you're not declared well, you're sick. In the same context, I also think that consideration should be given to how to prevent the proposal from hitting at a social disadvantage. There may be a risk that only those who have a surplus of resources will be able to take advantage of the opportunity to be declared healthy • those who have the profits and resources to do so and to be able to argue for it. That is why we in the Enhedslist will immediately be more in favour of a model based on the principle that there is no discrimination on the basis of a diagnosis alone and that there is a concrete individual assessment. However, this does not alter the fact that we can support the SF's motion for a resolution, because it is quite clear that a mental illness is chronic and because it guarantees elementary rights for citizens who have suffered from a mental illness. That is why Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110153625	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110153634	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying that I think this resolution is very sympathetic, as it deals with a still unresolved issue, including the consideration of life after the end of disease, and this is a very relevant and important issue. It is important to be aware that many are not chronically ill even if they have had a mental illness. I also believe, however, that the consideration of when you are no longer ill and are thus well is essential to this issue and therefore also to this motion for a resolution. Here I note that the Danish Health Service states that it will not be possible, within a reasonable degree of safety, to set time periods without illness, after which a person can be declared healthy and thereby cured of his or her mental illness, including that it is not possible to guarantee that there will be no relapse. Nor is it possible to say when a relapse may occur. It gives the proposer's wish for a right to have a health report so essential that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution. However, I fully agree that we need to make an effort to eliminate or minimise stigmatisation of people with mental disorders, and that is why we and the government have prepared an alternative proposal to strengthen the destigmatisation of people with mental disorders among both health professionals and case managers and in private, municipalities, regions and states. The government's proposal consists of three points. First, there must be a cover-up phase in which the scale of the problem is identified and described in more detail. Then there is a phase of proposals to change practices in which, in the light of the detection of problems, solutions and proposals for detigmatisation are sought, among other things. with inspiration from other comparable countries. The third phase is a final implementation phase in which efforts are being made to anchor the new actions both locally and in the health sector and beyond. I would like to acknowledge to the SF this motion for a resolution, which has thus given extra attention to a relevant issue and given rise to this specific initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110153915	Thank you. There are some questions. Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110153918	Thank you. I took note of the essential reason why the Liberal Alliance cannot support it, namely that there is no guarantee of relapse. That is actually quite a crucial statement to make. For some of the things that are quite important in our recovery thinking in psychiatry are, in fact, that people must retain the hope that they can recover. And that's why such an announcement may be one of those who hurt some of the people who get hit most, namely: You never get a guarantee of relapse. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur provide a guarantee that the rapporteur or I will not suffer from a mental illness?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154008	No, I guess nobody can. And it is true that it is very boring that we cannot give a guarantee that we will not have a relapse. But you can't, and I can't change that. That's the way it is. But that doesn't mean that you have to take away the hope of recovery or the hope of getting back to a good everyday life and back to normal life. After all, we must support and help all that we can. And that is something for which hope and effort must be maintained. That's for sure. But neither can I give a guarantee that I cannot get sick, and that is something that can never be guaranteed. The probability of a relapse is only statistically greater if you have once had a mental illness than if you have never had it. And these are, unfortunately, the boring, factual things that I cannot change.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154115	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154117	Sir. In fact, Peder Hvelplund spoke in his rapporteur's speech about some of what is also one of my concerns and from which I also hear a lot of things. Only today someone wrote to me that her daughter had anxiety symptoms, but she didn't want to see the doctor because she was nervous about the consequences that could have for her later. That's actually part of the point here. The rapporteur says: No, we cannot provide any guarantees. But why is it all right, then, that the rapporteur and I have opportunities which some others, for which there is no guarantee, do not have? Now it is a little unfair to ask for documentation on these statistics, but I would like to see the statistics where you can say that some who have not had symptoms for a long time and where doctors consider that they are in full remission should have a greater risk of relapse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154220	Well, I have a paper here, an analysis that says that if you've had depression, there's 50 percent. the risk of a new depression. But you can't say anything about when it might come. And if you have had two depressions, the risk is about 70 percent, and in three depressions there is as much as 80 percent. the risk of recurrence of depression. And for people with schizophrenia, approx. 20% of patients become completely healthy and live without the need for medical treatment, but some who are still at risk of relapse are still at risk of continued treatment. So it's like some boring facts that we just can't change.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154310	Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154311	But do you just have to cut everyone over a comb because some people have a greater risk of relapse? I believe that, on the basis of a concrete assessment, it may not be possible to give a guarantee that a relapse will never occur, but it can be assessed whether the risk has increased in relation to a relapse compared with others. Because, as has also been said, we cannot guarantee that people who have not been affected, for example. depression, never gets depression in their lives. So if the risk in people who have had depression is not greater than it is in people who have not had depression, why should they not be equated?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154347	But it is. That's what I just said. All of these figures I have just said mean that the risk to people who have had depression is much greater than to people who have not had it. It's one thing. However, in relation to what the rapporteur is asking: No, we should not just exclude all people and treat all people in general, certainly not, and that is why the initiatives that are now being launched must uncover how big the problems are and how we can tackle them, what we can do about them. Experience from abroad must also be gained. What do you do there, what do the statistics say there, and what action can you take there to help people? Because it's important that you don't just generalize and say that because you've had a mental illness, you're out of the question. It is extremely important that we do everything we can to help, and fortunately there are a lot of people who come back to a normal everyday life and work and work perfectly normal, including in the family and socially. That is something we must support and help, and the more the better. For those who can't, let's see what we can do for them. It is most important that we combat the whole problem, both in the health services outside the health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154503	Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154504	I know the statistics. I read them myself when I was hit for the first time, and it was not very pleasant reading, but there is a difference between statistics and an individual concrete assessment. I would venture to claim that some people who have had depression may in fact be better off in terms of avoiding relapse, especially if they are given the right treatment, and that is why we should not have a system that is so screwed up that some people will not actually seek that treatment because they are afraid to be stamped for life. Because when you have been affected in the past, you know the early symptoms, and you can live in a way to prevent relapse. That is why I do not think we can build it all on statistics. A specific assessment must be made in each case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154540	I fully agree with that. That goes for everything. It must always be an individual professional assessment and, as I said before, one should never generalise and everyone should have a chance. The most important thing, then, is quite clearly that you go in and make an individual professional assessment, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154559	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110154607	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for making this important proposal. And why is that important? Why is it important to be able to be declared healthy when you have had a psychiatric diagnosis? This is, of course, important because mental illness should not become a life-time stamp that restricts mentally vulnerable people from having the same opportunities in terms of jobs, education and so on. In 2018, more than a quarter of a million Danes had a mental diagnosis of more than a quarter of a million. More specifically, it concerns 242,100 adults who had a mental diagnosis in 2018. This is the last figure that has arrived a few days ago in KL's newsletter Momentum. A quarter of a million Danes had a diagnosis. I myself have a past in a municipal council and I know how diagnoses are unfortunately abused in some cases. They are used in some completely wrong contexts to evaluate some particular things • something that triggers something; it can trigger support for a child, but it can also in turn trigger something negative. For many, many years we have been talking about the fact that there has been a diagnosis inflation, and that is not because these people do not necessarily have a diagnosis, but it is because it has become more and more important that you get this stamp on whether you are failing something or something, because you have to be able to show it to be allowed, for example. to get the help you need. In an article in which I read the figure, which is from TV 2, Joy Mogensen, chairman of the KL Social Committee, says, and I quote: The most frightening thing is if the diagnosis suddenly takes over your life and defines everything. And that's exactly what this whole debate today has been going on. It's if your diagnosis defines everything, not just now and here, but actually the rest of your life. That's terrible. I would like to use my speaking time to give a concrete example of a 31-year-old man named Mads and you can read about it on the Psychiatry Foundation website where I have found his story. He is now studying psychology at Aarhus University. When he was very young, from about 16 years of age, he experienced symptoms of schizophrenia and was hospitalized a few times. And it all happened from the age of 16 until he was 22. As I said, he was hospitalized, but at some point he started running and exercising, and then he got much better, and he got some kind of health report • not officially, but he got a report that he was well. He had a very big dream of becoming a pilot. But then it happened that he took all these flying lessons, a radio certificate and theory tests, but he lacked ten solo flight hours, and suddenly he discovered that the Traffic Authority had a paragraph that says that if you have a background with mental illness, you are forever excluded from being a pilot. There must have been a mistake, he thought, but there wasn't. And then he started this long fight, which then didn't lead to him becoming a pilot, but that he is now studying psychology at Aarhus University. He says himself: society should accept that I am healthy and not set limits for me. After all, it is a very specific example of how to get a stamp on your back for the rest of your life, which says that you may have had some symptoms of a mental illness, for which you have been treated and over which you have recovered, but which will limit you for the rest of your life. It is really, really sad and inappropriate, and from a human point of view it is terrible. So from the point of view of the alternative, I would like to say that we naturally support this proposal which the SF has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110155044	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, the Radical Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110155055	If you had come here today, you wouldn't have been diagnosed because you're not up to the diagnostic criteria. But you can't get rid of the diagnosis anyway. About that, a psychiatrist said when I insisted in 2015 on a re-evaluation of my adhd diagnosis. I have also met Mads, who has been mentioned, who is also struggling to be declared healthy. Mads dreams of becoming a pilot; instead he has become a lecturer. He tells about how his schizophrenia diagnosis prevents him from becoming just a pilot. Because even though Mads has struggled well, the diagnosis is following him. In the Radical Left, we wholeheartedly support the possibility of being declared healthy even if we do not use exactly the word in the record after a psychiatric diagnosis. We do so for several reasons, and above all because we want equality between people with physical and mental illnesses. Today it is the case that a former psychiatric disorder can create obstacles to the individual's life in a wide range of areas, even if one has recovered completely. This is true in relation to getting certain types of work, getting a driving licence, being conscripted, becoming a foster family, taking out insurance, adopting and probably a lot more. We do not think it is right for a former psychiatric condition to mean that you do not have the same opportunities and rights as others. And at a time when recovery is filling more and more in psychiatric efforts, and when there is much talk of recovery and the importance of hope, it does not make sense if people do not also have a real opportunity to recover and to move on. Therefore, everyone should be given the opportunity to re-evaluate their condition. When you cannot get rid of a diagnosis, it can mean that many do not get the help they need, because the fear of being stamped for life can prevent some from seeking help. And not only can I quite specifically have met people who were in no doubt that they had a mental illness, but who would not seek help, solely for fear of never being able to get rid of the diagnosis completely again. And if you know a little about mental illness, you know that it is not necessarily the best solution. The better you treat, the better you can in many cases recover more quickly and avoid relapses. Another reason for supporting the possibility of being declared healthy is that it will give a more real picture of developments in this area. For a number of years it has unfortunately gone in the wrong direction, for example. in an area such as adhd, where more and more people have been diagnosed. As mentioned, I'm one of them. That was 8 years ago, and then I was sitting in here as an ordinary MP. Five years later, I was told by a psychiatrist that I no longer meet the diagnostic criteria. Yet I cannot get rid of the diagnosis, and yet, according to the Danish Health Service, I count in the statistics. And when that is the case, it is difficult to get a true picture in this area, as well as whether our efforts work. Fortunately, we are constantly getting better at treating the various psychiatric disorders, so that hopefully more will also be able to recover in the future. When you have a somatic illness and receive treatment, it usually follows up on whether the treatment works and whether you get well. At least that's my impression. In my opinion, this is not happening to the same extent in the psychiatric area. I have insisted on a re-evaluation of my adhd diagnosis and, as I said, I was told by the psychiatrist that I no longer meet the diagnostic criteria. Subsequently, I blogged a little about it, and it triggered a lot of inquiries from people who could not get their dream jobs in the police, in the military or in a completely third place because they were locked by a diagnosis that might no longer be true. They wanted a review, but they didn't know how to get it. In the Radical Left, we find it neither fair nor appropriate for a former psychiatric disorder to deprive people of the opportunity to live the life they want. They should have the same opportunities and rights as other people. And that is why we support the right to be declared healthy after a mental illness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110155512	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110155524	Thanks to SF for raising this issue. I have great sympathy for the intentions of the proposal, and this is an issue to which we must find a solution. We are therefore very open to further work on a solution that takes account of inappropriate discrimination against people with a mental illness. Unfortunately, there is a widespread perception that people who have been diagnosed with a mental diagnosis have a chronic illness for the rest of their lives. But studies actually show that for example. many patients with schizophrenia fully recover and can live without treatment or symptoms of their disease as long as they take their medication and follow the prescribed treatment. That is why we must have done something about the inappropriate discrimination against people suffering from mental illness. We look forward to and support the Minister for Health's suggestion that we start a broad-based work where the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly is working on a model that meets the problem and that we sit together across the parties and find the right solution to the problem. We support the purpose and purpose of the resolution, but do not believe that the way in which the resolution resolves the problem is the right solution. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution here, but we look forward to being able, together across parties, to sit together and find the right solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110155703	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110155711	Thank you. I would really like to start by saying a great deal of thanks, and then the less happy remarks come later. However, I would like to say a great deal of thanks, because this debate is extremely important. I think the fact that we have it today means something out there. At any rate, I can see that from the attention of the last few days to this and the many feedbacks I have received from citizens, from professionals, from organisations, etc., which support a hundred percent of this proposal. And I do not think we should underestimate the importance we, as politicians, have of whether or not the changes in attitudes are taking place. And I would like to return to that in the slightly more sour remarks. In any case, I would also like to thank the Minister for recognising the problem in such a way and also making some very good suggestions as to how we proceed. I think it is very good to review the area, I think it is very good to look at where it is, we in our own legislation and guidance, etc. must have cleared up some completely misunderstood perceptions of what mental disorders are. I think it is really good to investigate where it is out there too, because as I said in one of my questions along the way, it is amazing what I get from stories. Well, I can hardly believe that's true. And it says something about how big the prejudices really are when it comes down to it, even though in the general public, I do not think there is now a single person who has not had it in his own life or has close relatives or friends and acquaintances who have it. So this is a public health problem, and as people are increasingly diagnosed, this issue will not be less important. Of course, I would also like to thank the alternative, the Radicals and the Enhedslist for supporting the proposal, even with the minor reservations that may exist, and to thank the other parties for stating that they support the intention, but nevertheless cannot support the proposal, which I am a little sorry about. I would still like to see, I think, in the committee's proceedings whether I can make a contribution to the report or some amendments which make it possible, after all, to have a majority on it. I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Radicals in particular for standing here on the platform and sharing his own history. It is also one of the things that matters out there to break myths and taboos, i.e. that there are actually people who dare to come out with their story. So thank you so much. Then the proposal to hold an expert hearing has been mentioned, which I think is actually a good idea, even if one had to vote in favour of the proposal. Because if we were to make the proposal even better, perhaps that is exactly what we need. For some of the arguments that have been going on have been about technicalities and the language used. And in a small party like SF, we do not have a staff of officials who can formulate things in the correct way. When we table a resolution, we identify a problem and then we try to make a resolution that addresses it as well as possible. So, of course, that proposal can be improved, and of course I would also like help with that. What, on the other hand, is crucial is that there is not just such an investigational thing going on in it, but that we are actually getting something done about this. Let's just take what diagnoses really are. Diagnosis is actually a really useful professional tool to describe a mental state you are in. On the other hand, they do not say anything about causes, nor do they say anything about forecasts. This does not do the diagnosis in itself, but it is a useful tool in organising a treatment, identifying what it is actually for a mental condition and what it is, the need for treatment. Unfortunately, the prognosis only has far greater power than that; for it not only has great power in relation to those who are still suffering from their mental illness but, as we have discussed today, it also has power, many, many years after one is not affected by it anymore. That is the problem. Because this is not really in line with the diagnosis system's own intention. The diagnosis system is a descriptive system, a descriptive system. That explains nothing, and it offers no prospects for the future, and therefore it is also quite unfair that people should suffer from a diagnosis that is really just a professional tool. That is why, in the course of the debate, I have always insisted on the fact that, although it is true that the somatics do not do it either, and it is also true that it is not part of the practice, I am put in the world as a politician to solve the problems that exist, even if it means that we have to change practices in some places where we have not done so in advance. And I think it means something to be able to make some kind of statement, a paper, call it what you're gonna do I really don't really care about it. What matters is that the people who have had a mental illness can document that they do not have that suffering anymore. That's what matters. Then it also means something, and I don't think you should overrule that the signals we send from in here mean something to whether people actually retain the hope that they can recover from a mental illness. Hope is actually a very, very important ingredient in order to recover at all. So this is not just a question of a technical, legal thing; it is actually quite essential in our understanding of mental illness. When I said that I had those kind of pissed off remarks, it's because I can get a little tired. I can get a little tired when something's that simple. At Radio24seven today, I think it was where, by the way, they gave me the Scam bear for my proposal, it's not every day you get it from them, so of course I'm glad they said it's kind of just a flybone that shows you no longer have your suffering. It's kind of just a flybone. How hard can it be? And that's kind of how I get it. We can then complicate everything very much in here with technicalities and procedures and things that need to be investigated, and stop and come down here. This is bottom-up, and people need to have the right to be healthy. So thank you for the debate and I will see what I can do about what we have debated today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160505	Then no one else wants to speak... Yes, there is. First, it is Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160517	Thank you. I would just like to say that I am really, really pleased that the SF will seek to gather support behind a report contribution, because this matter is simply too important not to seek and find what unites, instead of focusing on what divides. I think I can promise that we will contribute if necessary, even if I stop the day after tomorrow, if nothing else can I do from the sidelines. And then I just want to say thank you for those nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160544	Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, whom I completely overlooked because I was so concerned with the rapporteur's concluding speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160552	It was also an exciting speech from the rapporteur, and I was certainly swallowed up. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the SF once again for presenting this motion for a resolution. This is a relevant discussion. But I would also like to say to the SF that I will be a little bit, what to say, a pity, when the SF's rapporteur calls it deleting a file for a flybone, because we do not want to be part of it like that. Well, erasing a file isn't just a question of a check here and a check there and putting a flybone there. I would just like to make it clear once again that we in the Left fully recognise this problem, and then I think that the Minister for Health deserves recognition for entering the debate, making real proposals for solutions and inviting debates, for discussions in the Ministry. I hope that we will continue to work on this problem, but I do not think that it is just a matter of putting a leg on a fly. I think that is a very important issue, almost under the floorboards, and I really do not think it deserves the good debate we have had in this Chamber, given this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160713	In fact, I think I remembered to acknowledge the Minister quite a lot, both for having taken this motion for a resolution down positively and for the initiatives taken by the Minister. I also think I praised the debate very much, including its importance. So I just want to make it clear once again that we have no wish that we should enter and delete files. It may be possible to read it out of our remarks. But we note that it is impossible to do so, and if you read what the motion for a resolution says, you will see that we want to give people the right to be declared healthy. That's what we want. So the deletion has never been the intention of our proposal. It was just to correct that misunderstanding. I say this thing about the flybone because I sometimes think that a proposal can fall on whether you have called it something else, and here you call it "healthy," that is, in fact, I could also problematize that we even call people's mental problems "diseases." We could also have a longer discussion on whether in reality is reasonable, but we do not. But that's more the thing about what's the trouble in giving people access to documentation that they no longer have a mental illness. That's kind of what I'm very puzzled about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160832	Thank you. Then I would like to ask carefully whether there are any more who wish to speak. There isn't, so thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160909	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 January 2019. For the first time as a viewer and others, we have the order in which the question is first justified, then the Minister for Health answers it and then we start the debate and there is the first rapporteur for the questioners. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110160943	Thank you. 14.9% by young men and 17.1% by young men and 17.1% by young men. of young women aged 16-24 years exceed the high risk limit and would like to reduce their alcohol consumption themselves. This shows figures from the national health profile for 2017. Although the consumption of alcohol by young people has decreased, Danish young people continue to have a European record of drinking and drunkenness. Since 1995, Denmark has actually had a European record in full when, among other things, it. apply how often young people drink more than five items at the same time, and the very first time they are ever drunk. Denmark, along with Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia and the UK, is at the top of the lists because one in every five young people was full for the first time at 13 years of age or younger. In other countries, for example: Iceland and Italy, this applies only to one in twenty young people. In Denmark, in my opinion, we have a large group of young people, approx. 32,000 who, according to the Center for Drug Research, show signs of alcohol dependence. It is a group we unfortunately know too little about, and it is a group where very few are given the opportunity to get a treatment offer. I think it is a very big problem that we have a hole in the treatment and in our knowledge of these young people and their alcohol overuse. That is why, in the alternative today, we have called for a question debate on young people and alcohol, with a special focus on young people who have alcohol abuse. That was the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110161139	Thank you. Then I would like to welcome the Minister for Health to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110161149	Thank you, and thank you for the question. I think we can all agree that when we are young we will not get the best start on adulthood if we have developed an abuse of alcohol, and that is why this is an important issue that we are discussing today. The short answer to the question is that young people should not develop alcohol abuse at all, which requires them to be treated; that is something that we must prevent; that is something we must avoid. The municipalities have formal responsibility for the prevention of young people, but in my opinion there is also a shared social responsibility. There is also parental responsibility, and there is responsibility on the part of the young people themselves. This applies both to ensuring that young people do not develop a problematic relationship with alcohol, but also to helping young people to solve the problems that they are going through when the problem is related to alcohol, or where alcohol may be getting away from another problem that needs help to solve. Parents, schools, educational institutions and the rest of civil society play an important role here in ensuring that things are successful. Having said that, I think we should be careful not to equate high alcohol consumption in youth with treatment-intensive alcohol abuse. In my view, this is not the same, because high alcohol consumption in young people does not necessarily mean that later alcohol consumption will have to be reduced as the number of youth parties declines. In general, you have to keep your tongue straight in your mouth if you are to keep track of the different concepts of people with alcohol problems. We must not uncritically equate them, for they cover many different situations. The questioners claim that over 30,000 young people are showing signs of alcohol dependence. The Danish Health Authority assumes that the estimate originally comes from a report made by the Center for Drug Research. So it's not an estimate coming from the National Health Service. The concept shows signs of alcohol dependence is also not a concept normally used by the Danish Health Service itself. The Danish Health Authority uses the WHO definition of dependency and concepts related to the amount of alcohol consumption, e.g. The percentage of drinking above the high - risk limits of 21 and 14 items a week for men and women, and the amount of drinking at the same time. This is the one about drinking a lot of objects on top of each other. In fact, when we talk about the development of the amount of alcohol consumed by young people, it is basically a positive story that the questioner does not pull out at all. The National Health profile 2017 shows that young people generally drink both rarer and smaller amounts compared to the previous ones, but the rapporteur for the questioners does not put any emphasis on this at all. Since 2010, the proportion of young people between 16 and 24 years of age who drink above the high risk threshold has fallen from 19.7% in a typical week. at 11.5 per cent. In 2017, therefore, a rather marked drop and a change in the alcohol culture among young people. There has also been a need for this, and we need to go further down. At the same time, the proportion of young people who drink more than five items at the same time has also fallen. Since 2013, the proportion of young people drinking regularly and regularly doing binge drinking has fallen from 57.3%. 50.3%. in 2017. In my view, this is a fairly significant drop in the consumption of alcohol by young people, and I think we should take note of that as well. Because when the questioners raise this, it is a bit undertone that the problem is increasing, and I just have to say that fortunately we can see that there are fewer young people drinking and that there are more young people drinking less. We must also welcome the positive trends, although one might of course always wish that things would go faster and that we also had an even greater fall. Hopefully, in the long term, the reduction in alcohol consumption among young people will also reduce the number of young people who develop a real dependence on alcohol and who ultimately have a need for treatment. There are probably many reasons why alcohol consumption has fallen among young people, but I think one of the reasons is that attention has increasingly been paid to the alcohol consumption of young people and adults and the less good aspects of the relatively high alcohol consumption that we see in Denmark. It may also have caused young people to reflect on their own consumption of alcohol to a greater extent than in the past. We have also held debates in recent years about alcohol culture and being young, without necessarily having to be associated with alcohol, when you go to youth parties, hold rust watches or other things, and which I think help to shift the perception that having fun should always rhyme with alcohol and thus also help to change the culture among young people. I also believe that both some of the campaigns that have been launched, but also some of the preventive measures in the field of alcohol, which are aimed at young people, parents, municipalities and educational institutions, as well as places of supply, which are among other things. has supported local prevention efforts in the municipality, has helped to move something. The Danish Health Authority has done the campaign • Very much more with •, which is targeted young people between 16 and 20 years of age, and which among other things. It's about the fact that you can also be together without necessarily having alcohol. In spring 2018, the Danish Health Authority also published a new prevention package on alcohol targeted municipalities on how to work to prevent excessive alcohol consumption. In the prevention package, municipalities can, among other things: find inspiration and guidance for effective prevention efforts and also efforts to detect young people who, in one way or another, have a problematic relationship with alcohol and need help. In addition, youth education plays a particularly important role in reducing the alcohol consumption of young people, and subsequently also in higher education. For this reason, I am also pleased that in June 2018 the Danish High School, together with the Danish Health Authority, decided to send a joint call to all high school rectors in Denmark to encourage individual colleges to create a healthy framework to prevent high alcohol consumption, and that a number of other initiatives have also been taken to reduce the use of alcohol in our educational establishments. Unfortunately, it is not realistic for not a single young person to develop alcohol dependence, regardless of the number of preventive measures, and therefore it is also important that we ensure that, as a young person, if you become dependent on alcohol, of course you need help and treatment. It is also something that the municipalities are obliged to offer to young people, and it has to be said that there are municipalities where good treatment efforts have been particularly successful for young people. One example may be U-turn, developed by the City of Copenhagen, which targets young people between 14 and 24 years of age with alcohol, hashish and drug problems. In conclusion, I would like to repeat some of what I said at the beginning: fortunately, the right way is to go with the alcohol consumption of young people, and I think we should welcome that. Hopefully, in the long term, it will also be reflected in the fact that fewer young people develop a self-sustaining dependency on alcohol, but of course we should not rest on laurels and only welcome the fact that consumption is going down. We also need to take further initiatives in order to change the youth culture which relates to excessive alcohol consumption by still too many young people. The Danish Health Authority must continue its prevention efforts, and municipalities, schools and educational institutions and civil society must also continue to take responsibility for ensuring that the alcohol consumption of young people goes even further than it is today. All of this is not something we can solve here at Christiansborg. We have a shared responsibility if we are to have the positive development to continue, and I think that, in the debates we have held over recent years, we have helped to change the culture of the use of alcohol by young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110161949	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110161953	Thank you. Now it was only a very brief motivation or justification that I made before. I have not given my rapporteur's speech yet, so I think it is still very early for the Minister to say that I have nothing positive to say at all. I said, for example.: Although the consumption of alcohol by young people has fallen, so I did mention it in my explanatory statement. I do not think we can already see that I have anything positive to say at all. The minister also said that I claimed it was about the 30,000. It's a number I have from the Center for Drug Research. If that's the wrong number, then we're gonna have to get an answer to it through the Ministry. I was surprised that the Minister used the bulk of his speech on it and, in fact, only a few lines at the end of the treatment itself, because I think the Minister is not curious about this issue, since the Minister himself mentions that there is some ambiguity about the definition of when you are abusing, when you are addicted to alcohol? So how many are alcohol-dependent in this target group? Then I think it must also be important for the Minister to find out something about it. Does it not worry the Minister that we still have the European record in drinking, to put it in a popular way? And in relation to the Minister saying that I had said that it was increasing: I have nowhere at all I have just said that if 32,000 young people have an abuse of alcohol, then it is so serious that we have to take it up in the Folketing. I have not claimed that the figure is increasing, but do these things not concern the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162141	I am not going to stand here and repeat everything I said at the outset. I think that both I mentioned the things that concern me and the things that please me in relation to the development of young people's alcohol consumption. The Danish Health Authority does not have any evidence that there should be more than 30,000 alcohol-dependent young people in Denmark. That is what I pointed out quite factually, because I think it is like being indicated that there should be so many alcohol-dependent young people. What the Danish Health Authority is concerned with is the WHO definition of addiction and the concepts related to the size of alcohol consumption, where you can drink more than the recommended items, i.e. lie in a high-risk group, without even being addicted. That is why I also said that I think we should be careful not to confuse things, because I think there is a tendency in the question. In fact, I believe that we are doing a disservice to young people who need treatment, but also to many young people, where this is really more about culture, and it is also about the fact that consumption, which is too high for a period of time, can, as the youth parties so run out without those concerned having a bad start in life or having developed a definite alcohol overuse. I just think it's important that we stick to what things are so that we don't mix them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162257	I don't quite understand the Minister. This isn't an open consultation. This isn't the kind of thing we're going to attack each other. I mean, I have raised a question debate because I am curious that there are some gaps, that there are some things we do not know. As far as some of the points are concerned, the Minister is now saying that we do not know. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: according to the WHO and the Health Service, how many young people have alcohol abuse or alcohol addiction? If the Minister cannot give an answer to that, is it not very nice to be able to get an answer to it, that is to say that we will have it examined? So I would also like to ask the Minister: how many are too many? I mean, for me, 5,000 young people who have alcohol abuse are too many if they are not being treated. How many is that for the minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162342	In other words, a question has been asked, and I am responding to the question and choose to highlight what I think is important politically, among other things. that it is going in the right direction, in relation to the fact that, fortunately, we see fewer young people drinking and that we also see fewer young people drinking too much, and I think that is a good thing. This does not change the fact that there are still some challenges, among others. with regard to the general alcohol culture in youth life in Denmark. I think that is also the case, among other things. the training institutions are a major responsibility to take care of. That is why I also highlighted the cooperation that exists between, among other things. Danish Gymnasium and the Danish Health Authority in relation to sending out calls for a clear alcohol policy also at the educational institutions. Because there are a lot of places where you still find that young people, for example, get too much alcohol on board for parties, for example, and there you can also work on how to have parties without alcohol. They have a responsibility. All those young people in need of treatment must receive treatment, and it is, in a sense, irrelevant to what the number is. I have also replied in writing to some of the questions put by the questioner in relation to how many people there are in different places, and I can then refer to them very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162451	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And I'm gonna have to admit a mistake. It is the case that only one question should be asked as rapporteur. I was just in the rhythm and thought it worked out. So at least nobody's been cheated in the first round. But now we move on to the debate itself, and the rapporteur for the questioners has the right to make his speech first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110162514	Thank you. I'd like to start with a quote from a young woman. She says in this quote about her own life and herself from a previous period in her life: • Not everyone knows about my everyday life. When Mom or Dad calls, I hurry out on the street before I answer the phone and point out that everything is going well. I just can't get myself to tell the truth. In a way, I want to protect them from the grief of seeing your daughter miserable and going in a completely wrong place. I lie to them so long that I finally believe it myself when I tell them that everything is going well. But it doesn't. It only goes one way, and it's down. I just drink more and more, and more and more. ▪ These experiences are told by a young woman named Freja, and they can be read on the website hope.dk. For Freya, it started in the ninth grade. She's now 26 years old and hasn't had a drink in three years. Freya already became a regular at the local bodega when she was 21 years old, and before that she had been drinking a lot. She decided one night to go on what she calls a death drink. Her night ended with her being admitted to a psychiatric emergency room. She was hospitalized for 10 days, and it became a turning point for her that she was granted a long course of treatment with therapy and conversations that got her stabilized. And what really helped her, she says, was when she started meeting with like-minded people. I have called for this debate today because in general we know very little, in my opinion, about the large group of young people now there are doubts as to whether it is 32,000, but it is according to the Center for Drug Research that it shows signs of alcohol dependence. Alcohol habits are founded in youth. Early onset and high alcohol consumption as a young person are associated with a high risk of drinking more than others later in life. Fortunately, the consumption of alcohol among Danish young people has fallen in recent years, as we have just heard the Minister say, and the young people are also older now when they start drinking. Despite the positive development of young people's alcohol consumption, Denmark remains the country in Europe where most young people get drunk. And very few young people go into alcohol treatment. I have put a question to the Minister, as the Minister himself mentioned, Question S 222, on whether the Minister considers it satisfactory that out of the 32,000 young people who have alcohol consumption so high that it can be described as abuse, only 1,880 people aged 18-29 were in alcohol treatment in 2013. I did not get a concrete answer as to how many people were being treated. I thought the Minister said that, but I do not think that is anywhere. And the Minister emphasized the same thing as in the speech, that is to say, careful care should be taken to distinguish high alcohol consumption in youth from actual alcohol abuse. So, although we should welcome the fact that young people generally drink less and that their consumption has fallen in recent years, there is still an excessive group that drinks so much that they need treatment. And part of the point of standing here today must be that we need to know much more. Surely, as a society, we must worry about the many young people and not just think that it is part of a youth culture. We need to investigate the area and gain more knowledge. We need to find out who the young people are, what characterises them and why they are not being treated or why they do not stay in the treatment. We need to find out what it takes to get young people into alcohol treatment. Another major problem is that the young people who are being treated do not feel comfortable when they finally come to an alcohol clinic. Because there is no tailor-made treatment offer for young people who have problems with alcohol alone. And it's probably crucial that it's hard to attract these kids to alcohol treatment. So I do not think it is satisfactory at all with what we know now, and it is not satisfactory that young people should be seen in alcohol treatment only after they have become middle-aged. So you could also start by asking: Why do some young people drink so much? And why do some young people drink so much that it becomes an abuse? We know that there are a number of young people who drink because of mental illness, but there are probably also a number of young people who drink because of increasing pressure and demands for success. I hope the Minister will listen to the need to look at the group of young people who have challenges and need treatment. And I am pleased to be able to read out an adoption text supported by ALT, S, RV, SF and EL. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes: That it is positive that young people's consumption of alcohol has decreased significantly from 2010 to 2017 • a welcome development that needs to be strengthened with a strong and sustained focus on preventive measures. That, despite the positive developments, according to the Center for Drug Research today, there are approx. 30,000 young people aged 15-25 who show signs of alcohol dependence, young people who need treatment so that alcohol does not destroy their opportunities in terms of education, jobs, boyfriends and family life. That young people with signs of alcohol dependence are virtually not being treated today, among other things. because there is a lack of targeted alcohol treatment offers. That there is a need for a significant political boost and focus on getting young people into treatment, including focusing on different ways to motivate them to get into treatment, concrete suggestions for better treatment, tracing and motivating conversations for targeted treatment provision and systematic follow-up. • V 53). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163126	There are no brief comments, so we thank Mrs Pernille Schnoor for the rapporteur's speech and move on to the next rapporteur. I would like to welcome Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163149	Thank you very much, President. It is, of course, a short way after we have been placed differently in the Parliamentary Chamber, and it is quite exciting to be able to look down at my good colleagues and the minister just below the platform. Thanks to the alternative for calling this query debate. If you have met young people who have alcohol abuse and who have recognized alcohol abuse and where you can see that their daily lives are not connected, you know that they will not realise the wishes and dreams they have about life because they are stuck in alcohol. I've met some of them. And I have met many who, in adult life, have been hanging in alcohol abuse since they were young and who have never come out of it abuse, and thus maybe have never had any periods in their lives where they could see how nice and how good and how exciting it could be when you were not driven by an addiction to alcohol in everyday life. I think it is important now that we have this question debate to deal with what is the starting point for the question. It is, of course, in itself not the prevention part. We can discuss it and talk about it a lot. No, this is a matter of those who have come out and had an abuse. What are we doing to get them out of the abuse where they hang in the alcohol in their everyday lives? Here I think it is absolutely necessary to look at where the responsibility lies. And the responsibility lies in the municipalities. I think it is interesting to try to look at the studies carried out by the Danish Health Authority in the autumn of 2017, where the municipalities were examined and tried to look at how they had worked with it. And there are some who are taking really good initiatives in order to achieve broad cooperation. It can be with the restaurant and bar environment, where you focus on reducing marketing. Because it's also a curse when you have an abuse and you have an addiction. Firstly, that alcohol is as incredibly cheap in our country as it is, so availability is much greater than most people almost have an understanding of. In addition, visibility is also very high. Marketing and advertising are very effective. It is in relation to those they would like to have to start drinking alcohol, but indeed it is in relation to those who have high consumption and who have a problem with it. I think it lacks a clearer picture of what the 98 municipalities are doing in this area, speaking of a debate we have had earlier in Parliament today. And I can only say, as a Social Democrat, that when we had the government last time, when we took initiatives in the field of prevention, which should of course have an impact on treatment, yes, there we introduced prevention packages, which were a direct gift to the municipalities in relation to what they could do with the benefit of having things implemented. It has been many years now, and we are not in the end at all. That is why I am very pleased with the text adopted by Mrs Pernille Schnoor, in other words the text adopted by the red bloc today, because we are getting the idea that we need to set more ambitious targets for where we are going. Then I think that Mrs Pernille Schnoor, in her rapporteur's speech, is doing something I would like to comment on, and it is about young people who have alcohol abuse. I have to say that the times when I have visited drug treatment centres and have discussed their success or, too often, their lack of success in relation to young people have told me that many times there is no pure alcohol abuse; it is a mixture abuse. And it's a curse when either medicine or hashish or hard drugs get mixed up and alcohol gets into it. It's deeply, deeply complicated to push a young person out of an addiction, out of this pattern, when in our society it's so easy to get things, even at the cheap price. And here I think, as Mrs Pernille Schnoor also says, we need to know more about this. And when politicians get a little bit beaten up by abuse experts, many of them say that we have failed in many areas, both in relation to hard drugs and also in relation to alcohol. So I actually think the time has come for us to try to form a new picture of what the smartest people in the field actually say is the way to structure things. Because I believe that we must both look at some structure, but we also have to look at some resources for the municipalities, because there are small municipalities which have little resources. They may not have many young people who are abusers in the field of alcohol, and they will have to cooperate with others in order for them to be able to get the professional skills on board if it is to take place under a local authority. And that is why, of course, many municipalities refer them to treatment institutions, and that is not always the best thing, I think, to place young people there who would like to be doing things in their lives educationally or otherwise. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163731	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163736	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. I would just like to acknowledge some of the latter, as the rapporteur says, and which I also think is very important, namely the issue of the resources of the municipalities. Let us now say that it is 30,000 or 32,000 young people who have such a high level of alcohol consumption that it is an addiction, and we are distributing it over 98 municipalities. So some municipalities are so small and have so few young people who have this challenge that they may not be able to offer them an offer tailored to them. And that is why we need to have an overview of how many people are involved in each municipality, what these offers are, and how the municipalities can come together on some offers, as the rapporteur also says.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163826	We need to get a picture of that. It is not certain at all that the Danish Health Authority can do so, but it could be a question that the Danish Government will have the Minister answer. The rest of us can also ask questions to the Minister if we are going to try to get a picture of it. So I am thinking the other parts of our health care into it too. And I think a lot about the practitioners. I would like the practitioners and healthcare professionals to be more involved in this, because on the socialist side, we would really like health care professionals to continue up to the level of youth education as well. Then they could have a finger on the pulse and maybe be professionals who could help try to address it and at an early stage address this issue to the young people who may be on their way to abuse. Many of them do not come to the general practitioner, and that is actually why I propose health care professionals as such an advanced health element where there is a presence in everyday life • regardless of whether it is in primary or secondary education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110163932	I totally agree. In other words, we have some youth education where we have an opportunity to meet young people and get health care workers more involved, because the task of healthcare professionals is actually also about prevention. And healthcare professionals can also see if there is a consumption of alcohol that is harmful and dangerous. So to get youth education much more on the field and health care professionals into youth education, I also think that is very important. I myself have been to a vocational school, and there are certainly also young people with alcohol abuse problems. So I fully agree that we should also have health care professionals on the line in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164021	I think that it is desirable, as we have also discussed politically, on many occasions that the youth education institutions should have a policy on alcohol. It has more and more of them. I think it might be a good thing, in relation to young people who are being abused, that they too, as well as knowing what is offered, should be addressed, so that if the alcohol consumption you have really develops into a real abuse, you have been given the sign and told that there is actually help to get. I think it is difficult very late in an abuse which may have been allowed to run for too long, to start addressing what help in itself could be. I think it's some kind of pedagogy we need to get in place here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164109	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164114	Thank you. I just want to know if I heard right. Did the rapporteur say that the price level in Denmark was very low? Will the rapporteur confirm that the prices of alcohol in Denmark are low?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164127	Yes, they are. If you measure the price of alcohol up against average wages now and before, alcohol is extremely cheap now compared to previous ones. I'm not afraid to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164143	Thank you. How, then, does it relate to the fact that Danes are constantly driving south of the border to buy alcohol? I thought it was because it was cheaper there. I also have the impression that it is cheaper in almost every country south of us. We note that Denmark has a European record, so where prices are lower, they drink less. So, what's the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164209	I think the rapporteur himself should try to make some conclusions on this. I am just saying that alcohol is incredibly cheap in Denmark today compared to an average hourly wage as it has been historically. This has nothing to do with the price level in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164224	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur and warm welcome to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164239	Thank you. Even today, when we had the debate on alcohol treatment, the Minister promised a check on this in relation to the quality of the alcohol treatment, and this also applies to young people. We have discussed earlier today that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to offer free alcohol treatment regardless of age. We have also discussed today that there are 98 municipalities which have different ways of preventing abuse and different ways of helping with alcohol treatment. Having said that, parents also have an important responsibility, and it is incredibly important how we, as parents, train and how we have the dialogue on alcohol. These are dialogue in schools, dialogue in youth education and in parents' councils. As parents, we have a responsibility to help and support and guide and, of course, raise our children to have a sensible approach to alcohol. In the Danish People's Party we find this extremely important in relation to the prevention part, and that is why we have also taken several initiatives in the social field precisely in relation to active interventions for vulnerable children and young people and their families. We have made development and investment programmes in this area in order to become wiser, and we have done so together under the pool of rates. When we talk about this area, not only can we talk about health care, we also need not to think in silos, but we need to think in social efforts, and that is why it is important today, I think, where the rapporteur of the alternative said in his explanatory statement that one in five young people aged 13 years has been full. It is therefore incredibly important that we have the Services Act and there is a prevention clause in the Services Act which states that the municipal council must organise an effort to ensure coherence between the general and preventive work of the municipalities and the targeted efforts for children and young people with a need for special support, and the municipal council must also, as part of early preventive work, ensure that parents with children and young people or others can receive family-oriented advice, including the following: to solve problems in the family as well. Compared with the estimate of 30,000 young people showing signs of alcohol dependence, as has also been mentioned today, it is not exactly what the data base for the figure is, including whether the four municipalities estimated by the figure is representative of the country, and it might be interesting to have it clarified more. The national health profile in 2017 shows that young people generally drink both rarer and smaller amounts compared to the previous ones, so that the number of young people aged 16-24 who exceed the Danish Health Authority's high risk threshold for alcohol intake has fallen from 19.7%. in 2010 to 11.5%. in 2017, and that the proportion of young people who drink above the Danish Health Authority's high risk limit and want to reduce their alcohol consumption has increased from 10.8%. in 2010 to 16%. in 2017. That's really, really good. Another thing you might be worried about is whether it's because you're resorting to something else. We could also have a debate here today on drugs, just as we debated laughter gas and other drugs in the past. So I'm thinking, of course, it's also important to find out what the fall is. Is it because one has simply become wiser as a young person, what I hope, of course, or is it because one might resort to other drugs? So I think it is interesting that we have this debate today, and I also feel that the Minister has said earlier this day that there will be a service check in this area, both for those who are over 18 years of age and for those who are under 18 years of age. I can see that time is running and I would like to make the following comments on behalf of V, LA, KF and the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that young people generally drink less and less quantities than before. Thus, the number of young people between 16 and 24 years of age who exceed the Danish Health Authority's high risk limits for alcohol intake has decreased from 19,7 % in 2010 to 11,5 % in 2017. In the long term, it will hopefully be reflected that fewer young people are developing problematic alcohol consumption. The municipalities are responsible for both alcohol prevention and treatment. The Danish Health Service recommends that alcohol treatment be family-oriented. That the Danish Health Authority supports the municipalities' alcohol efforts, e.g. with the alcohol prevention package from spring 2018, which provides guidance on effective preventive and tracking interventions, and the Board annually focuses on young people's alcohol consumption, for example. through campaigns such as • Very More With and • Less Drink • More Festival • More Festival. That it is a common social responsibility to prevent alcohol addiction among young people. The parents of young people have a great responsibility in this regard. That civil society and youth education increasingly take responsibility for a healthier alcohol culture among young people. • V 54).
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164830	Thank you. On another occasion, I have to inform you that it is always permitted to allocate the time it takes to read out a proposal for adoption, and that is part of the negotiations as it has been in the past. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164846	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur also attached great importance to the prevention aspect. In fact, I believe that we are doing quite well in Denmark in relation to prevention in relation to alcohol, and that is also why the issue today is not formulated in relation to prevention. It is actually formulated in relation to what it takes to get young people who have an abuse out of their abuse, and that is also why I addressed to the Minister that I was rather annoyed that the whole speech was about prevention. 'Cause I think we got that pretty well under control. So it seems that there is a group that we do not have so well under control, namely those who have an abuse. So when the rapporteur says that the minister wants to do a check, I would like to hear that the rapporteur agrees that it is important that we emphasise that young people should be involved in this check. Because, for example, you guys... The study by Alcohol & Society now is not specifically addressed to young people. So it is important that we address young people specifically in the check of what the municipalities have of offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110164957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165001	As far as prevention is concerned, I think that this is connected. Because if we had such a good prevention, you wouldn't end up out there where you might get into an abuse. Having said that, however, I think it is important that young people should, of course, also be included in the checks that are being carried out in this area. After all, I cannot speak on behalf of the Minister for Health, but I am quite convinced that the Minister for Health has this in mind as well. At least that would seem very obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165031	But I ask because some of what surprised me in my preparation for today is that young people in relation to abuse are not actually included in very many studies. It is actually very difficult to find something about young people and abuse, and I think that in itself is problematic. For then I can be told by the Minister for Health that the figure on which I have chosen to focus, namely from the Center for Drug Research, is not necessarily true. However, we just do not have much data on young people and alcohol abuse, and that is why I stress, also to the rapporteur, that we must ensure that that group is then specifically addressed in the quality check.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165114	I fully agree with the alternative rapporteur that data, knowledge, evidence and good studies are a very good tool in the work of politicians, precisely in terms of securing interventions. So there we do not disagree that it is of course important that there are some good studies and that there is evidence of how and how the treatment is and how many young people there are also in an abuse in relation to alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165141	Thank you to DF's rapporteur and warm welcome to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165149	First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for raising such an important issue of young people and young people's alcohol dependence. We have just entered 2019, and New Year's Eve is a good opportunity to sum up a little over the state of things. On such an evening you are in a vacuum where the past, the present and the future meet, and that is also the case with our youth. After all, for our children, we meet every day in the past, the present and the future. We cannot change the past, but we have a responsibility for both the present and the future, and youth is the gold of the future and our hopes, and we must, of course, take good care of them. Whether it is about young people's drinking, smoking or drug abuse, we have a very great responsibility to look after and protect both our children and young people. When I read the text of the question debate, I was a little worried for a moment. For approx. 30,000 young people show signs of alcohol dependence, it says, and the alternative refers to figures derived from the 2012 report Young people who abuse drugs. But how to get to the 30,000 is a little unclear to me. But regardless of which calculator you use in the alternative, the problem is real enough. We must and must ensure that young people's consumption of alcohol is curbed, and these have been sad figures, which have been popping up over and over again in both the media and studies, that Danish young people have high alcohol consumption, and the earlier debut age, the higher the risk of both abuse and high consumption. This is a matter of concern to us in the Left. We adults, parents, teachers, educators, and whoever else is around children and young people in daily life have an immense responsibility to pay attention to the small signs of displeasure. For displeasure can be the first steps down the path leading to abuse, and an abuse early in life sets itself deep track. The report to which the alternative refers has six years on the back, if I may say so, and fortunately there has been a positive development since 2012. The figures in the national health profile from 2017 show that young people drink less now than they did before, and less often. Specifically, the number of young people who exceed the Danish Health Authority's high risk threshold has declined dramatically in the group of 16-24-year-olds in 2010 was 19.7%, i.e. almost a fifth to 11.5 per cent. in 2017; a decrease that is definitely worth noting because the group is almost halved and it is superpositive. In 2017, there were 417 young people between 18 and 24 years of age in alcohol treatment. That is 417 for many, and the responsibilities of the municipalities are very great both in terms of prevention and treatment. I cannot say clearly enough: early detection, systematic and cooperation are the key words. On Funen, for example, you have chosen to do so. have concluded agreements on common codes for alcohol consumption in high schools, and this is a very good initiative. Rusfester is good, but you don't have to sail around in alcohol and drink yourself in the fence to have fun. The Danish Health Authority has published a series of prevention packages, which I enjoyed very much in my time as a municipal politician, and there is also a prevention package in the area of alcohol where municipalities can draw knowledge and inspiration for initiatives. Use them! But parents and municipalities cannot do the job alone. Bars and discotheques must also take responsibility, and the retail trade must take responsibility for not selling alcohol to young people under 16 or 18 years of age. Last but not least, there is also a central responsibility to ensure that our young people do not have problems with alcohol early in life. Good role models in mother and father are valuable, and it makes sense that, for example, The Danish Health Authority supports and with campaigns encourages parents to make agreements with their children about alcohol intake. We know that such an initiative has a positive effect. Developments are going the right way, and this is positive, but we need to continue to pay attention to the alcohol habits of young people. Our young people, as I said at the outset, are the hopes of the future, and we must be careful of them. The Left can support the text of the adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read a moment ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165559	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165605	Thank you. I agree with most of what the rapporteur says, but there were just some passages that puzzled me. There were, for example, a reversal of which calculator is used in the Alternative. It is not the alternative that has spoken out that there are approx. 30,000 kids. It is not us who have sat with a calculator and counted them up. We've used a source in a report. The rapporteur must then say so if that source is unreliable. If we can't trust the Center for Drug Research, I need to know. It's not me and my calculator that have to be blamed for that number. So I don't understand what that means. I also think that if that figure does not apply, if both the Minister for Health and the rapporteur from the Left believe that this is not the case, how many people have an abuse? For the figures referred to from the health profile say nothing about how many people have an abuse. There is certainly no figure for how many people have an abuse. So I would like to know: if what we have taken as a starting point in the alternative is not true, what is so right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165715	I cannot, of course, know for good reasons whether the figure on which the alternative has been based is correct, because it simply says in the text of the question that it is about. 30,000 young people today showing signs of alcohol dependence. It's a quote. In fact, I do not see that a source is indicated. That is just why I should like to ask where the alternative is derived from. That has now been clarified. And I'm not asking questions at the Center for Drug Research or anyone else, but it just doesn't appear from the query text where the alternative has the number from. Then the alternative asks: How many people have an alcohol challenge? I can of course refer to the figure that says that in 2017 417 between 18 and 24 years of age were in alcohol treatment. And as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is 417 too many.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165807	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165810	I am a little surprised that the rapporteur suddenly does not know that it is the Centre for Drug Research, because the rapporteur knew this in his rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur has now said here that because the Centre for Drug Research is not mentioned in the text, one does not know where the figure comes from. However, I understand at least that the rapporteur knows very well that it comes from the Research Centre for Drugs. Then the rapporteur says that there are 417 in 2017 and that that is 417 too many. Could it be 417 too little if there are 417 more out there who have an abuse? We could turn it around and say that, because we do not really know it. We don't have a figure for how many people have an abuse. So 417 can also be 1,000 too little or 2,000 too little. Actually, we don't know. So does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a real need to find out how many people have an abuse when we talk about young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110165910	I fully acknowledge that there may be a dark number. There can definitely be young people we don't know about. When I say that there are 417 between 18 and 24 years of age who are in alcohol treatment, it is just because I think that we should have done better. We should have managed to prevent these young people from getting into such an unhappy situation. Thank God they're getting help. This is essential if they are to live a dignified life without alcohol. And I fully acknowledge that there may be young people out there that we have not yet seen. And there the municipalities have enormous responsibility for early detection, systematics and cooperation with, among others. the medical practitioners, as another rapporteur pointed out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170001	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170003	Thank you. I would like to maintain that line. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether it is a problem that we do not have proper figures in this area. It is strange in a country like ours in an area where we all agree on the social, human disaster, that we do not have figures on how many young people have alcohol abuse. It is strange, however, that a government, ahead of a question such as this, cannot correct the figures that the government and government parties criticise the alternative for writing in the opening and description of the request. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: is it a problem that we do not have proper figures? Similarly, a few weeks ago we were confronted with the fact that the figures we are all referring to, that is, 24,000 children grow up in a family where at least one of the parents has an alcohol abuse, are old and no new accumulated numbers have been made since. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170112	It was not, in fact, a criticism of the alternative, I just questioned where the figures came from, and I think it is quite reasonable to ask which calculator you use and where you get the figures from. I have received an answer to that, and it is no longer in itself. Then the Socialist rapporteur asks whether it really is true that in such a well-regulated country as Denmark there really are figures that we do not know about. We have discussed the area of alcohol earlier today and have to note that yes, there is a great deal about the alcohol sector in which we have not yet delved into it for unexplained reasons. That is why I am delighted in every way that during the discussion of the previous motion for a resolution on alcohol, the Minister for Health took the lead and said: I think this area needs a service check so that we can get a little smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170205	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170205-2	I am so grateful to the Minister for doing so. I also said that this should also call for an impatience in getting the work done quickly, because what is probably on the shoulder of responsibility here in the room is that if it turns out that it is not 30,000 but 80,000 young people who have alcohol abuse, then we must give them a helping hand and have a discussion with the municipalities in order to get that task lifted, so that we get the necessary resources to do so. The whole point of today's debate on the question is, of course, whether we have what we need to do in order to give abuse treatment to children and young people with alcohol problems, and that is where we already have far too much variation on the basis of what we have today. The offer is actually not very good, and we know God doesn't know much about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170257	We don't usually call on the higher powers in this hall. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170302	I did not hear such an immediate question from the rapporteur. It was more a statement and a comment, compared to the fact that there is a great variety in the local authorities in the offers in the area of alcohol. There is a need to identify what offers there are in the area of alcohol and what the effect is of the offers in the area of alcohol. And there I have heard the Minister for Health say earlier today that she would like to take the lead in uncovering, so that together here in the Danish Parliament we can learn a little more about what initiatives it is, what efforts we can contribute to ensuring that both fewer young people and fewer adults in the future will have challenges with alcohol, but that when that happens we can also ensure that they receive much better treatment than they are receiving today. That is why I would once again like to commend the alternative for taking the initiative in this debate. This is an important debate. It is our children, it is our young people, and I think it is very commendable that the alternative has taken the initiative here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170410	It does not appear that there are any more who want short comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170420	Thank you for that and thank you for raising the question here today. When the Center for Drug Research estimates that up to 30,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 25 show signs of alcohol dependence, this is of course a cause for concern. We know that this can have major consequences both now and also for their opportunities in life. We have dealt with B 27 earlier today, which was precisely about strengthening alcohol treatment through authorisation, quality requirements and reference programmes precisely to ensure that there is a qualified treatment offer in all municipalities. At any rate, we can see from the debate that we were promised there that a service check of alcohol treatment would be carried out in the municipalities, and I also traced a great deal of willingness to continue working on improving the quality of alcohol treatment in the municipalities. It is extremely positive that the average consumption of alcohol among young people is decreasing and has been so for many years. However, the decline in average consumption also covers the fact that in certain youth cultures there may be excessive consumption. It can, for example, be done. be in the transition from primary to secondary education. However, it is absolutely crucial that we focus on the fact that alcohol consumption is not only a problem, and in itself, but also a possible social or well-being problem. Many young people today feel pressured in an education system and in a labour market that constantly imposes large and increasingly higher demands on early educational choices and on grades. This can help produce an unfortunate alcohol pattern, where alcohol becomes an easy alternative, where you disconnect. Therefore, a more inclusive approach may also be needed in the tracking effort. It is well documented that young people are particularly vulnerable to high alcohol consumption, especially because alcohol is harmful to young people's brains, which are still developing. There is therefore a need to ensure that all colleges and vocational schools have and work with an alcohol policy that supports a more limited consumption among pupils. In some vocational schools and colleges it is part of alcohol policy that you are thrown out if you show up affected. Here, there might be a need for a more inclusive approach instead of offering help and advice to visit a well-functioning municipal treatment offer such as: A young team. But of course this presupposes that the government is willing to secure the means for the municipalities to carry out the task. Similarly, it is worrying that the government continues to refuse to raise the tax on alcohol and alcoholic drinks. With the 2017 business package, the government, together with the Danish People's Party and Radicals, removed the additional levy on alcohol soft drinks. We think this is the wrong way to go. It is well documented that lower prices increase consumption. In Denmark, the price of alcohol has not followed the general trend in prices. Alcoholic beverages only increased half as much as other consumer goods from 2001 to 2017 and have therefore become cheaper in relative terms. Moreover, it should also be a matter of course for existing legislation on age limits for the purchase of alcohol to be enforced. In connection with the transfer of control of the sale of alcohol and tobacco from the police to the National Security Agency, 0.7 years' work was devoted to the control work. This corresponds to about 15 minutes of control per week in each of the 98 municipalities, including transport. It is obvious that this effort must be improved if there is to be a real effect. Indeed, the consequence of the lax controls is that the availability to buy alcohol for young people under 16 years of age is very high. Therefore, we in the Enhedslisten believe that despite positive trends in a general decline in alcohol consumption among young people, there are clear opportunities to improve efforts both in terms of limiting availability, in terms of tracing, help and support, in terms of ensuring a qualified alcohol treatment offer and generally in terms of improving the well-being of young people. We can therefore support the proposal for adoption put forward by the alternative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170826	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170831	I would just like to emphasise two very good points: there were many good points in the rapporteur's speech. One was about the price, that is to say the alcohol tax. In the past, I have asked the Minister about the minimum price of alcohol, which has been introduced in Scotland and which has a major effect on young people's consumption. That was one thing. The second point I also think was very important, as the rapporteur mentioned, and that is one of the things that is good about us having a question debate, namely that there are such things coming out here with youth education. Instead of constantly wanting to make examples by throwing away, one should offer treatment or offer something to young people and at least also have the opportunity to detect whether there are those who have such high alcohol consumption that it is at the mercy of abuse or abuse. I think that is incredibly important, and that is why it is good that we have a question debate, because then we will have things like this that we can work on and look at. It was just an acknowledgment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110170943	Thank you. I am, of course, grateful for this, and I think it is very important in this context that, when we look at the alcohol consumption of young people, we should also look behind alcohol consumption; we should look at what problems lie behind it, i.e. whether there are social problems or some troublesome problems. That is why I think we need a much more inclusive approach, or at least we need an inclusive approach, rather than looking solely at prohibitions and penalties. So, of course, I sign for the remarks made by Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171016	It seems that others do not want short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171027	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I share the intention to ensure quality in the treatment of alcohol-dependent Danes. It is important that we ensure a very good quality in alcohol treatment, as alcohol dependence is a serious problem which can have devastating consequences, not only for those who are dependent, but also for the relatives and the rest of the family. And there are clearly things that can be done better, not least because of the great geographical inequality. It is the municipalities which are currently responsible for offering free alcohol treatment within 14 days to people with alcohol dependence, regardless of age. It is also the municipalities that are responsible for preventive action. However, it must be improved so that all municipalities can offer equal treatment. Fortunately, young people today generally drink both less and less. Young people aged 16-24 who exceed the Danish Health Authority's high risk limits for alcohol intake have fallen from 19.7%. in 2010 to 11.5%. in 2017. In addition to the decline itself, the decline is due to the emergence of parents and schools and colleges. It is simply a change of culture that has come into society, carried by civil efforts, and it is a path that we must continue, and it is a much better way than legislation and regulation. The Liberal Alliance supports the adoption text which was read out by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171227	There is a request for a brief remark from Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171232	Thank you. It's true that there's a positive development, and I'm really, really happy about that too, but now that you're constantly pulling out this study and this statistic that it's going the right way, it's still statistics, and it's still an average for all of our young people. So the rapporteur acknowledges that there may actually be some figures we lack, namely some figures on whether there is a group of these young people who really have such a big problem with how much alcohol they consume, that it may be abuse, so that we lack some figures for it and that we do not know whether we are doing enough for that group of young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171319	At least I know we don't have any figures for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171327	Does Mrs Pernille Schnoor want her second brief comment? Wait a minute. We need to get the mike on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171328	Then all we have to do is get answers to the end of the question, namely whether the rapporteur also recognises that we are not doing enough, since we do not know how many there are so that we do not know whether we are doing enough in relation to treatment either. It is not in relation to prevention that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171343	It is clear that we must help those people, both young and old and those in between, who have a problem with alcohol, just as if they have mental problems or what problems they have. We have to do what we can to help them. I fully agree that we need some good efforts to do this, and the efforts that are being made by the municipalities today are not good enough everywhere. There is far too much geographical difference, which is why we must be much better able to ensure that the municipalities that do well pass their knowledge on to the other municipalities, so that all municipalities can reach the same level, and so that we have a geographical similarity in the treatment of alcohol problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171426	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171435	Thank you. It's going the right way. Fewer young people drink and they drink less, but 32,000 young people have signs of alcohol dependence. Or is it? It is, after all, the one big debate that has arisen today. The Minister says that the Danish Health Service is discussing this in a different way, and that is fair enough, but then I get curious to know what the Minister's figures are for how many young people have a drinking problem. It is of course important that we know how many young people this is about, and it is also important that we know how big the gap is between the young people who are actually being treated and the many young people that we have to assume are out there and have a problem, but which we do not manage to reach out to and which we are not being treated today. I think that is the one thing that has emerged in our discussion here today, and I think we have every reason to continue working on how we can learn more about what is then the right figure. Because it is ridiculous that we, as politicians, are discussing figures. There must be others who can make us wiser so that we can have the political discussion, in view of what a problem we have. The second part of this is to understand why the young people have a problem. I heard that the minister in his speech made a lot of sense of saying that there are some really fun parties in some programmes, and I think that we have all tried to drink a little more than the Danish Health Authority thinks we should, but if we like to peel away all those who have fun at some parties and look at the group of young people we agree on having a real problem, what is the reason for that? Why do they drink, and what kind of help do they get today? I think there is much to suggest that we have a group of young people who are meddling themselves, and it is of course relevant to know what they are doing. So, is this for a group of young people some psychological problems that we have either not discovered at all or for which they are getting the wrong help? Is it family problems that they are wrestling with, or is it also the damaging culture of performance that has grown up in our educational system, which means that some young people are breaking their necks because they do not feel they can meet the demands and expectations of how they are going to cope? We need to know this in order to be sure that what we are doing, what we are putting in, is actually the right thing to do. So I would like to thank the alternative for raising this debate and asking what the government will do to strengthen the alcohol treatment of young people. I do not really know whether we got a specific answer to what the government is going to do, but at least I think it has come out today, that there are some things here that we need to know more about, and if it can come out of the debate, that we are looking at these things better and thus getting a better basis for action for young people who need it, then it is also a good step to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171759	It doesn't seem to have triggered questions. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110171816	Thank you. I would also like to thank the alternative for calling this question debate. I also think that it is a right and important subject to discuss the abuse of alcohol by young people and, above all, the treatment of it. We know that some studies have shown that young people have an early alcohol onset 13-15 years, says studies. And by then, young people have also had their first branding. It's really early. We also know that it is really easy for young people to buy alcohol, despite the fact that we actually have an age limit higher than the 13-15 years. Young people themselves say that their consumption is too high, and we know that this could result in young people being at risk of permanent abuse. It is both a huge problem when it happens, and then we are back on what the question is also about. I know that this debate on the question is about treatment, and the alternative rapporteur has also stressed this on several occasions, but I still think that we cannot talk about treatment without also talking about prevention. I myself think that prevention is the most important thing; that is, the best thing would be if we did not need the treatment at all. So I also think it has been right for the Minister of Health to point out that prevention efforts are essential. I think it is important to see how we could do it too. Perhaps we could have a discussion with each other on this matter too. Could we do it just a little better? In the SF we are concerned that the percentage limit is relatively high for young people, and we know that alcohol producers have given priority to making alcohol, which is simply targeted at a high alcohol limit of 161⁄2%, so that you can sell shots to young people aged 16. I think that is actually a bad thing for the alcohol producers, but I also think that it could give rise to us asking ourselves whether the limit on alcohol is really too high for the 16-year-olds. You could put it down to 6.5 percent. There are also some who have mentioned that the events in high schools would be more liked to be alcohol-free. I am not saying that young people are not allowed to party occasionally, but I think it is true that it is also good to see as young people that you can have a lot of fun without always having alcohol associated with it. So perhaps this could also be an initiative that we should try to work on a little more. Of course, I would also very much like the government to take the initiative to increase the control of IDs, because we know that young people have too easy to buy that alcohol that they should not have had access to, at least not before they were 16 years old. But of course we also need to focus on what we do when we fail anyway, and how do we solve the task in relation to treatment options? After all, this is an issue on which we have already been working today on the basis of Enhedslisten and SF's proposals for improving alcohol treatments in general. I also think that we have been well covered by some of the discussions we had there, and we are still away at the goal of increasing treatment in relation to alcohol abuse, although it is young people or older people. I still think, as I said, that prevention is important and that prevention is better than cure, but once the damage has been done, we must provide treatment services that are both necessary and important. The SF therefore also supports the adoption text which Mrs Pernille Schnoor of the Alternative has read out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172222	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172224	I also hope that the rapporteurs present here know that the alternative actually has prevention as one of our most important priorities and areas of action, so of course prevention is extremely important. The problem is, of course, that one can probably never prevent oneself entirely from the fact that some people want abuse. When you discover in connection with studies about young people that there really isn't so much knowledge about how many there are, what we do for them and what they do in the different municipalities, I think it must be something that we really should focus on. I hope so, and I am also listening to the rapporteur say so. Then you can say that you can also prevent a better quality of life. After all, we must also find out what we are doing with these young people who have a drinking problem in relation to the poor quality of life they must have. It was just a comment on this whole prevention thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172331	But just on top of that: when is it a consumption and when does it develop into a problem, and how early do you get started? The fact that young people themselves say that they have a very early onset and that they themselves think that they drink too much, we know too well. We know very well that some people end up developing a real abuse once they have a taste for too much alcohol. Therefore, it is also important to keep on holding on to the fact that it can also be fun to be together without alcohol and that prevention is the most important effort. And then we have to deal with what is left of us when it is the case that we do not succeed in everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172411	Does Mrs Pernille Schnoor want her second brief comment? Pernille Schnoor No thanks). We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172420	Thank you. The Conservatives too are very grateful to the alternative for raising this debate. It is always sensible to have debates on alcohol, smoking and everything else. This debate has proved to be really sensible. Like the SF rapporteur, I agree that treatment and prevention are closely linked, and I see that the alternative actually seems to be the same. And although this debate is now about alcohol treatment, I still think that prevention must have a word on the road. It is, of course, the case that a huge amount of work is being done in the municipalities today in terms of prevention. I have a lot of kids, but one of them, who isn't that old, went to primary school a few years ago. Already in the 7th grade, an alcohol policy was actually developed. Maybe some people are saying it's too soon. Actually, it wasn't, because the young people start drinking alcohol at a very early age. It was a policy that parents and teachers etc. in the classes were in complete agreement, and it was actually something that worked. This is something that young people can see themselves in and which will also be very good for them afterwards. We may see unfortunate tendencies that when we get on with it, maybe it can go very well in the primary school to educational institutions, universities, and there are sometimes these rush parties, and what else is going to be alcohol on the table. However, for us Conservatives, abolishing alcohol is not an objective. In other words, alcohol is a culture that you have had here for many years, and we just have to make sure that this culture does not develop in such a way that there are young people who have an abuse of alcohol and that is the most important thing. But culture and enlightenment are among the most important things for us. We also ask whether, as has been said from this point of view, we can solve this task, because it is a municipal task that needs to be solved. Can the municipalities lift it? And you ask if the small municipalities can lift it. Well, we know that there are a lot of co-operations between municipalities today, and this is something that you can solve across municipal boundaries. It doesn't have to be a tiny municipality that has to solve this alone. So we look forward to doing so too. We think it is a good debate to have, but we will then still say that we need to have some more details on it, and everyone agrees that we know the figure of 417 that was being considered in 2017. As has also been said, should there have been 834 treatment instead? We know nothing about this, and it is therefore reasonable that we should examine some things and get some figures, some facts on the table, to which we can all relate. Otherwise, however, I can say that Conservatives support the adoption text that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172733	Mrs Pernille Schnoor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172734	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think we agree with most of it. Nor are we interested in abolishing alcohol, so I certainly agree with the rapporteur. In connection with the rapporteur's speech, I would like to say that I think it is true that a great deal has happened in relation to what needs to be done in schools in order to prevent, make rules, that parents make agreements, etc., but then I think: I wonder how many classes and how many schools and upper secondary educations know what to do if they suspect that a young person has a drinking problem. I think so, for example. is interesting, and I think that is something that is also important to talk about today, because I really do not think that many people know that. What should you do if there is someone in a class who thinks that it seems that he or she may have an abuse? These are the things I think we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172832	That is where we say that it can be a figure for how many people really need help, and the figures are something that we have to find out in a study. How much do schools know about this? Do they know where to contact them? Once again, I think it is a municipal task to try to inform the schools where they should go. It can be sp cooperation, etc., which can also be over here. But if that is really the case, I cannot say whether it is • that very few people know where to contact them, then of course this is something that we must first turn to the municipalities about and say: this is something you need to focus on so that the young people, teachers or parents know where to contact them. Otherwise, however, I fully agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172914	We thank the rapporteur. This brings us through the rapporteur's line and goes to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110172921	Thank you for the debate and for the speeches in the debate. Basically, I think we have had a good debate on an important issue: how to prevent young people from developing alcohol dependency, and also how to ensure that young people receive the necessary help if they have come into a situation where they no longer have control over their alcohol consumption. I actually hear that there is also some kind of consensus in the debate that it is important that we focus on preventing both the prevention of young people drinking too much, but also the prevention of young people coming out there where they become addicted to alcohol. In fact, I am also hearing an indication that there is a'something' that I have at least noted in the broad statement that it is positive, that it is going the right way, but that it does not mean that we are in the goal of ensuring that children and young people have a proper and sensible relationship with alcohol and do not develop a serious abuse. We started by having a discussion on figures, and I think that the alternative rapporteur, perhaps a little bit negative, took it down. I do not really want to question that because I can hear that the rapporteur has done along the way about the accuracy of Centre for Research on Drugs. That's not really the point. The point was just to say that this whole thing about so many young people being alcohol-dependent isn't a definition that the Danish Health Service is dealing with, that is, the whole concept of alcohol dependence. The Danish Health Authority, on the other hand, is following WHO assessments and definitions in this area, and we are therefore addressing ourselves instead of when you are above the high-risk limits. Sadly, we can see that too many young people still do. Although we have seen a marked decline over recent years, too many young people still drink too much. What I saw also just said is that I think we should be careful not to equate it with drinking too much during a period of one's life, while one is young, and the fact that one is dependent on alcohol; that when one's life moves a little further and youth parties may not be interesting, that it is some other relationships and some other things in life that play a greater role, then one cannot have been a party, as I think some people call it, in a youth education context, without it actually meaning that one has an unhealthy relationship with alcohol. And that is why I just think it is important that we keep the concepts separate, not to neglect the issue that is, but because it is essential that we do not talk the problem too loudly or talk it too far down. Compared with the figures mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, we can see from the figures that last year there were 417 young people between 18 and 24 years of age in actual alcohol treatment. If we look at them under the age of 18, there were five. That is, of course, too many, and there is no doubt that there are probably also some young people who might well need treatment and who are not necessarily searched for the offer. And it is clear that this is also the task that lies in the municipalities, both in relation to prevention policy and also in relation to alcohol treatment when it is needed. And I also hope that the service check on the alcohol sector, which I said during the previous treatment of B 27 that I think is needed, will also be able to clarify the extent to which the municipalities are actually focused on the task related to young alcohol addicts, and not just the one related to the middle-aged group, where we can look at the figures, that it is where the largest proportion is alcohol dependent. I do not really have any more comments. I said what I wanted to say at the outset, but I am making myself available to the questions that may have been raised by the rapporteurs in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173308	The first rapporteur to sign up is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173311	Thank you. But now I was surprised that the Minister said in relation to these figures how many young people have some sort of alcohol dependence that the Health Service does not operate with such figures at all. Then I'm just curious to know if it's because the Health Authority doesn't think it's important to know how many have it. Or do you call it something else, or how am I supposed to understand it? Then the Minister says again that we should be careful not to call it addiction and such things. Well, I guess you saw it on the basis of some criteria that it's abuse. Well, I heard Henrik Rindom recently define that there are five, I think it was, criteria for when something is an abuse so something that must be met for something to be an abuse. Of course, this must be done in the case of young people. It was just the two things that puzzled me in relation to what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173413	What I said at the outset, and which I have also repeated here, is that the Danish Health Service does not use a term called "shows signs of alcohol dependence', which is, of course, the term used in relation to the source being used here. The Danish Health Service uses the WHO definition of addiction, and it is a concept related to the size of alcohol consumption, for example. the proportion that drinks above the high risk limits. The high risk limits in Denmark are 21 and 14 respectively. And that is also where we have these percentages of how many young people are re-entering the health profile, where we have seen a rather marked fall, and I welcome the rather marked fall. It's the conceptual worlds that are. Because you are above the high risk threshold, that does not mean that you are dependent on alcohol, but that there are danger signals. That is also what I said at the outset and, as I see it, I hear others say. There are danger signals, in relation to how much Fortunately we also see a decline, but we know that this is where we need to be particularly aware. There are some young people who drink senselessly drunk and have no control over themselves, and the body is also very, very influenced by the large amounts of alcohol they consume. And what it also means for addiction is one of the important things to keep in mind when we talk about prevention policy in the municipalities and the outreach effort that must be in relation to helping young people who need qualified treatment when we talk about abuse. It is alcohol in this case, but it is also about other forms of abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173543	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173544	What I understand is that the Danish Health Service does not then operate with figures that are about abuse, but about how much you drink. I mean, is that over what you recommend? At least that's what I heard the Minister say. So should I understand that it is not important to get figures on how many people are developing it? Should the Danish Health Service not have some figures on how many young people develop an abuse, in other words on the basis of a definition of what an abuse is and what addiction is? There I understand from the Minister that these figures are not there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173619	I have such a feeling that we are talking past each other, and if it is because there is a desire for different definitions of how the Danish Health Service uses the definitions, and it is not to be polemical in any way, then I think we should actually do it in writing. I believe that everyone in this Chamber would like to see the young people who have an unhealthy consumption of alcohol treated appropriately. And what I really think is the essential discussion is whether we are really good enough to identify young people and to make the outreach effort that will enable them to be given qualified treatment. That is, of course, what is important is not whether too many young people are still drinking above the high risk threshold, because in my mind too many young people still drink too much, but we can also see that there are young people who drink too much and who then two years later are a completely different place in their lives, where youth culture and festival culture are over there, and that is the end of it. We must be careful not to turn this into a debate on addiction. Therefore, one can well be above the high risk limit without being addicted, and that is what I tried to say at the outset, in relation to what the Danish Health Authority is focusing on in their figures, and which I also think is essential when we see a decline in alcohol consumption in young people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173738	There does not seem to be anyone else who wants to make brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 15 January 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190110173801	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 11 January 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
