ParlaMint-DK_20190130125959	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 143 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Supplementary pensions and various other laws of the labour market. Bill No. L 144 (Proposal for a Law on the Tax-Free Senior Premium). Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 145 (Proposal for a law repealing the Law on the tax of mineral phosphorus in feed phosphate and amending the Law on registration fees, the Law on beer and wine tax, the Law on collection and corporation tax. Bill No. L 146 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations and the Act on personal taxation. Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 86 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on mandatory calorie labelling in fast food restaurants, cafes, etc.). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Development Cooperation (Ulla Tørnæs) has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the special effort for freedom of religion and belief and religious minorities. R 8). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Wednesday 6 February 2019. The Foreign Affairs Committee has presented: Report on the Foreign Minister's handling of the historical account of Denmark's military involvement in Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan. 6). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130200	We have a number of questions and a number of ministers to visit us. There are 16 questions. The first question is to the Minister for Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130219	Here you go to Peter Kofod to read his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130221	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of an increased local police force with more land officers and more local police stations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130230	Thank you for the question. It is no secret that our police have been under severe pressure in recent years, which is why I also agree with the questioner that the police have come too far from the citizens in certain places. I guess that's what this is all about. Fortunately, we soon have the 600 extra police officers with whom we have decided together to strengthen the Danish police. In October of last year, I launched the play-out "Nærhed og forskærelse," where it is crucial that we get the police close to the citizens and that the officers become visible not only in a few selected cities with police stations, but also in those regions of our country where there is a little longer between houses. With the action, the local police are strengthened by 150 officers who are to have the close and local police work as their primary task. This is a significant increase, and when the initiative is fully phased in, there will be some 400 police officers dedicated to local police. With the initiative, there will also be a significant increase in the number and use of mobile police stations to ensure the visibility and availability of the police, for example. in the smaller urban communities where the police do not have a fixed station. In this way, it will ensure that the police come to where the citizens are, instead of the citizens coming to the police. All police circles use mobile police stations several times a week. In addition, the initiative includes a number of other initiatives that strengthen the police's closeness to citizens and increase security. I'd like to highlight the fact that Order a cop who's been made nationwide a month ago. The police have already received 116 orders for officers and, overall, I am really delighted with the initiatives that are in the process of being implemented. I hope, of course, that the citizens can feel that too, so that we can get the police closer. And then, in 2019, we will be negotiating what the police will look like for the next four years, and here I could imagine vividly that the questioner will also raise the issue of proximity and a local police.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130435	In any case, the Minister is quite right if I am privileged to take part in it. There'll be a parliamentary election before we get there. But the Minister is quite right to say that a lot of exciting things are happening to the police during this time and these years. There will be a multi-year agreement that we will have made in 2019. The Minister launched his initiative on how we got more local officers and more local police at the end of 2018, and that is what the Minister refers to in the reply. But I would really like to stick to the system we had a few years ago rather than have all that stuff about ordering a cop or having a mobile police station. Because I hope that it is the case that we can all order a police officer if it is necessary to call 112 and then, of course, someone comes. There should not be too much new in this: that you can get to the police. To the other part about this with the mobile police stations: Yes, it's probably fine for something, it's good for a whole lot, but I just don't think it can replace that safe and close that you had in the time with the rural areas that had their land officers, as people knew who was. It meant something. There was some trust, and there was security between people and cops. Nor do I think it is possible to say that these near police stations, which have been said very badly over the years, also have the effect of knowing that they are the police. They are not only there on Tuesday and Thursday, they may be there much more, and that is how locally based in a way. So I think you can do a lot when it comes to things that are mobile and new services you can offer, but the most important thing must be that there are many officers and that they have been well and thoroughly stretched out over Denmark, and there we still miss a great deal. But the prerequisite for success is that there are enough cops. So I want to hear from the Minister I know that the Conservative People's Party has announced what the target is for the number of new officers in the multi-year period we are going to meet: does the government have any objective, or is it only the Conservatives who have made their bid, which is also a good bid?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130647	I would like to comment on many very interesting points raised by the questioner. But I think I'll start by answering the question, and then I'll see how far I get in time. The government has not yet determined anything. For right now, some investigations have been initiated and the government has not taken a position on what the project should be. We'll see about that. I have allowed myself to make a second wish for what the Conservative People's Party thinks, but now I stand here as a minister in a government. I just think that we should look at the fact that some of the tasks that the officers had with passports and driving licences and other things, they no longer have. I think we should have some closeness. I also think that we should have an open debate on whether it should be as it was at one time or whether it could be developed and at the same time ensure some closeness. Well, my time is up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130733	Then I would like to ask whether the Minister believes that the objective has been achieved for the police in relation to the near and local, if one of them implements the proposal that the Minister put forward at the end of 2018. In other words, when it is implemented, are we where we need to be so that we do not have to do more?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130750	No, I don't think so. I believe that this is a very good start, I think there are many good elements, and the ordering of a cop should not be a substitute for an emergency. Well, of course it is thought, but if there are some citizens' groups or others who can see that they have a particular challenge in their area, then I think it is really good if there is someone from the police who can come out and engage in a dialogue on it and hold some citizens' meetings. I think that's really good. What we have done about it now is something that will start in 2019 and reach into 2020, but of course I also have a thought that if I am going to sit and join in this debate, we need to discuss how proximity and security work best, because that is something we have not finished discussing. So I think this is a really good thing we've set in motion, and then I think it's something we should develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130834	I therefore have to understand very squarely that this was the first step out of many steps that have been taken towards what the government intends to do to strengthen Danish police, even when it is close and local. I mean, it's step one, but it's not the last step. And can we expect new steps to be taken in relation to this issue, with the negotiations that will be here later this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130900-2	For good reasons, I cannot answer that question, because the government has not determined what is to be played with. I'm just thinking that for a number of years now it's also been about the police having some units we needed to strengthen. In other words, the police have simply had some new challenges that required strengthening of the police force. I think the questioner and I are in complete agreement on that. We just have to be careful that we do not end up in the situation where the police get too far away from the citizens, because the police work is also to meet the citizens without there being a blue flash. And that is where I feel it would be natural for us to discuss it further. I think we're doing a really good job on this. I can only imagine that we will have to discuss it further. I just cannot say more than that because it depends on what comes out in a future agreement, but the parties that will help to make such an agreement can bring many good things into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130130950	Thank you to the Minister of Justice and to Mr. Peter Kofod for questions and answers. Before we go any further, I would like to explain what is actually happening up here because someone is asking: what the hell are you doing on Wednesday? It is the case that the questioner is asked at the latest at 9 a.m. 12 on Fridays has sent a question to a minister. In other words, the Minister knows the first question to be read at the beginning, and then the Minister has two minutes to answer. The questioner then has two minutes to ask the question the second time, but the Minister does not know that question. Then the Minister has 1⁄2 minute, so the questioner has two more options of 1⁄2 minute each to ask two more questions, which the Minister does not know either, why there is such a little more vibrant down here. And if, as President, I stand up and say hmhm, it is because time has passed; one sometimes gets a little excited about debating with the minister and therefore one forgets time. But that is what is happening down here in Question Time. I would like to welcome the Minister for Health and Mrs Karina Adsbøl from Dansk Folkeparti, who has question no. 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131058	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131101	Thank you. If the Minister considers it reasonable that the regions continue to require reimbursement of patients' compensation following the Supreme Court judgments of 7 December 2017 and following the adoption of Bill No. L 98 on the conservation of compensation payments etc. on 5 April 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131118	Thank you for the question. The questioner refers to an amendment to the Complaints and Compensation Act adopted by a unanimous Parliament back in April last year. It is a legislative amendment based on a broad political agreement that we have jointly concluded to ensure that patients are no longer in a situation where they are asked to pay back an already paid compensation. On the same occasion, we ensured that even more patients can be compensated if they suffer a treatment or drug injury, for example. a psychic injury after taking a medicine. To answer the specific question as well, let me be very clear: if the regions demand the reimbursement of compensations covered by the new law, that would be totally unacceptable. Here we are talking about compensations awarded by the Patient Compensation after 1 July 2018, when the law came into force. However, it is also important to say that the amendment of the law applies in the future to compensations awarded after 1 July 2018. During a transitional phase, and this is also apparent from the draft law, there may be cases where the issue of repayment has to be assessed in accordance with the rules in force before the law came into force, i.e. the old rules which will apply to cases settled before the deadline of 1 July 2018. And, as I said, this is also clear from the draft law. In those cases, it will be the regions which, on the basis of the rules that were then and also the judgments that have fallen in the cases, may consider whether they wish to appeal as well as to claim a refund if, for example, the patient in the Appeal Board for Patient Compensation. the right to compensation has not been upheld. It will then be the Supreme Court judgments, which also ask refers to, which will come into the picture in that context. And it will then depend on whether there has been such an independent mark in the specific case of a reservation. In connection with some of the written questions that have been raised, I have also obtained some answers from the Danish Regions, and I would, of course, like to elaborate further on the questioner and also to obtain further answers from the Danish Regions if there are doubts as to whether the regions are complying with the legislation we have adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131343	That's what we're gonna hear now. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131345	In other words, we sent a clear signal here from the Danish Parliament that we found the practice that was completely unfair and that practice continues some regions then because they can do so under the previous legislation. Does the Minister not agree that we sent a clear signal from here that this was unacceptable? The second part is with regard to the Supreme Court judgments. A reservation has been made, and many of the regions have done so at the time when they found out. But another thing is that if you have been paid your compensation as a patient and neither of the parties has complained about either the patient or the region... then after 3 months, the patient will think that the compensation is the person's. Then, as a politician, I would say that the compensation has been received in good faith, precisely because no one has complained. If the region considered that it was not entitled to that compensation, then the region would have complained that is the whole essence of it. As far as the Supreme Court judgments are concerned, that is in relation to reservations. And then there is also the part whether you have received the compensation in good faith and whether you have spent the money. But there are still some regions that continue to do this. And the Minister may answer whether it was not a clear signal from the Danish Parliament that we did not think it appropriate, precisely because patients could never be sure of keeping their patients' compensation. Then there is that in relation to the answers we have received and not received. After all, the Minister has not sent the answer as to how many cases the regions have dropped; whether there has been a reservation; how many they have dropped, where there has been a reservation; and how many they have not dropped, where there has been no reservation. I look forward to that being transmitted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131544	Well, thank you for the question. As I tried to say at the outset, it is, among other things, the case. the cases that were at the root of the political agreement we reached, because we would not accept that there were patients who had received compensation in good faith who suddenly saw that it was then recovered. That is why we changed the rules. That is what the political agreement is about. However, it is also very clear from the draft law that we did not make legislation retroactively, but that we had a deadline on 1 July 2018 and that this would apply to the cases that were decided on subsequently. Therefore, as stated in the draft law, there will also be cases that are still being dealt with in accordance with the old rules. In this context, I have asked, on the basis of the questioner, that Danske Regionser give a specific account of how many such cases there are, and I will of course, as soon as I get the answer from Danske Regions, send it to the Danish Parliament, so that we also have a basis to discuss on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131642	When we dealt with the bill, I received a reply from the Ministry, precisely in relation to whether the regions could claim repayment at all. There's no clear legal basis for that. The regions then believe that they are entitled to do so in law, but they can of course not demand these patients' replacements back from patients who have received them in good faith. As far as the second part of this is concerned, the Minister has replied: the draft law puts an end to the case law in force, since the draft law should not introduce any further recovery proceedings. There I think we have sent out a clear signal from the political side and from Christiansborg that we will not accept it. Does the Minister not agree that it seems rather strange that the regions continue to do so after the clear signal we have sent from Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131736	But it will be up to the individual region to assess, as far as the old cases are concerned, what the practice is. I fully agree with the questioner that we sent a very clear signal that we thought some of what the regions were doing was petty. However, this does not alter the fact that, in terms of legislation and in relation to the deadline and also the political agreement, it is very clear from the draft law that we make a great distinction between new cases. I think that is also what is apparent from the reply that the questioner read out after 1 July 2018 and so old cases, where it is the legislation that was in force, as well as the decision that lies in among others. The Supreme Court on some of the cases that will ultimately be crucial. What the questioner has asked for and which I have asked Danske Regioner for • 'Cause it is not information that we have in the Ministry of Health' is whether they would like to explain how many cases of the specific conditions there are. And as soon as I get those answers, I will of course send them to the Folketing, so we also have an enlightened basis to take on the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131835	I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister considers the law to be such that there is no legal basis for them to recover the compensation, that is that there is no requirement for them to write to the patient, that he or she should pay his or her compensation, that it does not say so. I have put a question to the Minister precisely as to whether the regions have the right not to demand reimbursement of patients' compensation payments, and there the Minister has obtained a reply from the regions which considers that they should demand it. But what is the Minister's answer to that, i.e. whether it says in the legislation, that they should do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130131929	But it can be said that it is precisely the doubts and the cases that have led to the political agreement we reached, because we thought it was a huge problem that patients who had lived their lives, also after a treatment injury, saw suddenly that, after an appeal system, they could risk having to pay back a compensation they had actually used. And perhaps in many ways it had not given the idea at all that one could risk an appeal that went against the original award one had received. That was why we amended the law and also with the new legislation ensuring that this does not happen in the future. However, it is also very clear from the draft law that there may be old cases under old rules which have to run according to the practice that is also brought in relation to the Supreme Court. I then agree with the questioner that, in a political sense, we sent a very clear signal to the regions as to what kind of practice we think is appropriate, also in view of the fact that we have amended the law subsequently. However, in relation to specific questions, the questioner is therefore welcome to put them in writing, because I believe that it is also based on some of the legal assessments which are in relation to the Supreme Court's judgment and this with the specific reservations that may exist in some of the old cases, and where we will hopefully soon have this contribution from Danske Regioner on how many cases it is in which they have made specific reservations. But in the future, we need to avoid these situations. That is why we have changed the law, and that is why the questioner's own party and I have also been very aware that we needed a change in the law so that we do not have patients who get stuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132058	Thank you, Mrs Adsbøl, for today's work. Now we have to move on to a particular type of question, namely where the questioner has the opportunity to have a questioner with him. This means that you are allowed to have two additional questions. Every member of parliament is allowed to be a questioner every Wednesday for two questions to the same minister, but then you can change along the way so that the questioner becomes the main questioner. Then you will have two further questions, and that means that in principle there are now 24 questions for the Minister from two Social Democrats: Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen and Mrs Astrid Krag. It's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, who is the main questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132139	Thank you for that, President, and I am reading the question: does the Minister agree with the Chairman of Better Psychiatris, who says that the government forgets the psychiatry in the game and that there is nothing standing about special nurses in psychiatry, special training for psychologists or an increase in the intake of psychiatrists?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132200	In other words, there is no doubt that making changes in order to improve things in our health care always raises some questions, sometimes also some concerns and also some relevant concerns, which, of course, we have a duty to clarify. And in relation to that, I can say: No, I do not agree with the quote or with what the questioner likes to say should be the starting point for better psychiatry. And I am not, because it has been so important for the government to say in relation to the health reform that this is an initiative that is just as much an improvement for psychiatry as for somatics. For there are people who lack coherence in their course of treatment, there is a lack of hospitalization in this case often in the psychiatry of their own doctor and municipality talking more together and having a binding framework for their cooperation. Here we are removing the legal constraints that today make it possible, for example. not to the extent that it would be desirable to have a common economy, joint management, joint organisation and joint recruitment, so that we can really ensure that some of the people who live with mental disorders do not find themselves playing ball between different bodies and run the risk of being reinstated and reinstated, because there is not enough connection between what is happening in treatment psychiatry and in social psychiatry. That is why I believe that it is very important, in terms of health reform, both in the somatic and psychiatry sectors, to ensure this binding framework for close health cooperation with the creation of the 21 health communities, but also with a quality plan for the immediate, and to make up for the fact that in a number of areas today there is a lack of binding professional standards as to what the offer should be in our close health care. And that is one of the things in which we are going to invest very much both money and human resources, namely that we will have a much higher professional standard in the offers that lie in our close health care. And it will also benefit people with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132411	Thank you, Minister. So, the heading of the article quoted was: Mind and Better Psychiatry criticises reform proposals: it is a hard attack on a government proposal, and it has to be said that if we look into our health services, as the Minister has also mentioned, psychiatry is the sector which has most often been said that there is a need to correct something that the past has not been responsible for working well enough today. That is why it seems to me to be a harsh criticism, and it would have been wonderful if one had had a government that had embraced and embraced that issue, so one had listened to the many voices that have been that something really has to be done in this area. What both SIND and Better Psychiatry are focusing on is the quality out there. That is the quality created by having enough of what you need, that is to say you have enough of the people who know what this is all about. And this is where their criticism is devastating, because that is where they say that the government is not delivering anything. In relation to the next question, I would like to address what the Minister is saying about the fact that the government will, of course, secure money and human resources. Yes, and that's exactly what SIND and better psychiatry say you don't get delivered in the presentation. That is why I have to ask on behalf of SIND and Better Psychiatry, because I wonder the same thing: where is the money to come from? So what money does the government have for this, and how is it that the human resource, which the Minister himself is talking about to ensure better quality, is to ensure the right professionalism in relation to mentally ill Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132607	In the autumn, the government presented a major psychiatry action plan with 43 concrete initiatives and an economic boost of more than 2.1 billion. kr., where we have not only taken some initiatives in relation to recruiting psychiatrists, but also, in this way, together with the author's own party, have taken some initiatives to ensure that we use the competences of our specialist psychologists and have also taken some initiatives to ensure that the competences of the psychiatry nurse's special nurse, which is also referred to in the article quoted from So precisely those initiatives were in the government's psychiatry action plan. Unfortunately, I have to say that in the question of recruitment to psychiatry, where the government went to the pool negotiations with the wish that a not insignificant financial framework should be provided to strengthen that part, the author's party did not want me to support it. I would have liked to have seen more support for that part, including in economic terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132706	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132707	Now the game in connection with the bet pool is such that the government always comes and presents a program where all the money is spent, and then the rest of us can't get any wishes with it. It is good that it disappears because it has not been anything that has supported either the quality of health care or the democratic process. Yes, the government has put forward plans, also in relation to how to provide more staff, and with regard to nurses with special training in psychiatry, a working group will now be set up, according to the government's proposal, to look at the qualifications required. Well, I understand the frustration of patients' organisations in the psychiatric field when the government does not provide anything more concrete than setting up a working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132755	In the autumn, the government presented a very well-worked psychiatry action plan with 43 concrete initiatives, with an economic boost of 2.1 billion. kr. and with a plan for the development of psychiatry over the coming years. What we are building on now with the health reform initiative is, in fact, also that we are getting the structural framework to support the cooperation that needs to be in the close health care between the hospital, its own doctor and the municipality. Because if there are any people in our society who need it, it is people with mental disorders who today experience that there is far too little coherence in our close health care. That is why I could have hoped that the questioner's own party would have supported this health reform, which will greatly improve people with mental disorders in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132839	Then we have come to the co-questioner, Mrs Astrid Krag, and she has one minute for the first question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132849	However, I would like to say to the Minister, who is precisely here about the hops, that the organizations which represent both the mentally ill citizens and the relatives also have completely unanswered questions about where the mentally ill are in this reform paper. Now my colleague Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen by making a quote from one player. I would like to make another point and say that now the Minister describes how it is important that sick and weakened people are not throwing ball in the system, and we can never disagree on that. This is one of the tasks that is a bottom-up task. But in the paper presented by the government, who is it in the municipalities who is taking on the new tasks of the municipalities? Who's gonna catch them? I understand the great concern and would just like to quote the President of SIND, Knud Kristensen, who has taken note of the government's initiative and says that there is nothing at all about what should happen to the psychiatric area when it is moved out to the municipalities. Who are they gonna take care of? Department of Road and Park! And the latter is probably more of a rhetorical question, but the concern is there. What is it that must be built up in the municipalities that allows them to take care of the mentally ill citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130132958	If I look at psychiatry today, I can see that this is very much an area that the regions have not lifted sufficiently. I have to say. I think it is a task that has not been adequately undertaken in any way. Every crown we have spent on lifting the psychiatry since 2010 can be converted to decisions taken in the Folketing. These are not decisions taken out of their own budget in the regions. That is why I think we should look at the things that are not working today. If I look at the field of psychiatry, I can see that there are many things that do not work that we need to do better, and we will do so with the proposal for health reform presented by the government, both in relation to the close health care sector, in relation to ensuring coherence and quality out there and also ensuring that we have the adequate resources and competences that need to be in relation to, for example, us. In municipal health houses or psychiatry houses, as we know them from Silkeborg, a more coherent treatment is provided for people with mental disorders than the regions have managed today. That is what is needed, and we want to give priority to this, and I really hope that the Social Democrats will be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133059	Yes, and that is where we have the problem, because we cannot just talk about ensuring that there will be sufficient competences in an area where there is no quality improvement today, that we can have binding quality targets, as I hear the Minister say, binding professional standards. When I read the playout, I can see that there are demands in many places, but then you don't bring the money. Because the Minister knows that as well as I do that if something is to be binding, if there is something that needs to be demanded, then money must be included, then final demands will be made, and that is why we are standing and are so appallingly worried about it. You cannot get any concrete answers in relation to what needs to be built up in the municipalities, apart from this very airy issue of quality boosts and sufficient competences, etc., and you cannot find the economy for it either. I understand that is extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133144	I just want to say that I am puzzled by the questioner because, yes, of course, there will have to be a follow-up to the economy. That is what the government says it is ready for. I do not know whether the Socialists are ready, as I know, it has just been said that we are opposed to the reform of health, despite the fact that the reform of health is going to ensure more closeness, more coherence, not least for people with mental illness, and that we are going to increase quality out there where it is lacking today, and also getting rid of the fact that, unfortunately, the regions have not sufficiently taken up the task of psychiatry, so that we also have a boost for the people with mental illness we have in this society. They have the right to do so, and I think we have a good dialogue with both SIND and Better Psychiatry on how we can strengthen it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133227	Then the main questioner has the opportunity for a final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133236	Thank you for that, President. Yes, the question took a turn in itself, because now suddenly it became a question that it was all the fault of the regions. I would like to put a question to the Minister. The biggest problem in relation to psychiatry is that not enough money has been spent or that one lacks the professional skills, the expertise needed to treat the mentally ill Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133302	Yes, I have to say that I do not think, when I look at psychiatry today, that the regions have done the job. It may be that the questioner thinks you have it. It is, of course, a combination of different things, but one can say that it is the regions that have been the managers of the task. When I talk to SIND and Better Psychiatry, I also do not have the experience that they think that the psychiatry has been adequately carried out in the regions. What we are proposing with the reform of health is that in the field of psychiatry, too, we need to create a more binding framework of cooperation for the treatment we need, so that we do not risk that there is not strong enough cooperation between what is happening in the treatment psychiatric system, what is happening in the municipality and what is happening in our own doctor. That is why we are creating the 21 health communities, so that we can be far more involved in ensuring more closeness, more quality and also a binding, binding framework for cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133347	There are no more questions in this round. But the questioner can stay here, because we shall move on to Question No. 4 which is in the same position, namely the Minister of Health and Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen as the main questioner and Mrs Astrid Krag as the co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133406	Thank you. And I read out: what is the Minister's position on the concerns of among others? Better Psychiatry and SIND that health reform will lead to worse quality for mentally ill people with depression and anxiety?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133420	As I said in the last question, I always think it will be the case that when we want to change something to improve it and also improve psychiatry in Denmark, questions will always be raised, and it will always be the case that there will be concerns. We must, of course, be able to answer that, including the questions raised by SIND and Better Psychiatry. I am very, very happy to do so, because I believe that with a new quality plan for close health care, we will very much have to set a professionally binding framework for what kind of offer to meet with, even if, for example, we are going to have to meet. is young with a mental disorder. For what we can see today is that, unfortunately, there are a great many children and young people waiting for too long, and that there are very large regional differences in this area as to how quickly you are being assessed and how quickly you get into treatment. With the reform of health, we are proposing that this is one of the areas in which we want patients' rights to be extended and also that service standards come in from the start. It is the children's and young psychiatry area where we think it would be appropriate for us to also use the capacity of the private practitioners in children's and young psychiatry to make sure that children and young people who have a mental illness come more quickly into study and treatment; just as we want to look at how we get more close to the treatment, just as we do on the basis of the professional input from the Danish Health Service, so that some of those who today receive their offers in the outpatient treatment psychiatry can receive more than we see some of the courses being today. It is basically about creating closeness and coherence in our treatment, but it is also about raising quality standards for what we are offering our psychiatric patients in our healthcare today, where there is a great deal of room for improvement, because it is a task that has not been resolved in the regions today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133613	Yes, Minister: what capacity and professional skills can the 98 municipalities perform in this area? Will the Minister try to give a picture of the extent to which the municipalities today have the capacity to deal with mental illness? I understand that organisations in the psychiatric field have a concern. My experience is that there is an incredibly varied quality compared to the people you have, but also how few resources you have to put into this field. That is where the concern lies. You have to move patients from one place to another where the variation in quality and professionalism is at a quite different level than it does in relation to treatment psychiatry. At the last question I had the opportunity to put to the Minister, the Minister criticised the regions. Does the Minister have a criticism to make of the part of psychiatry in the 98 municipalities today? Because when the Minister says that the regions have not done the job, I think that the Minister seems blind to the fact that a very large part of the psychiatry should be lifted out in the municipalities. That is what makes the organisations say: how, in a very short space of time, should the municipalities get professionalism, capacity and structure to be able to comply with the quality standards that the Minister is talking about here? I understand that is a real concern. Why, though, should it not be possible to strengthen that part from what is the framework today? Why is it that it should be moved from a regional level to a municipal level? Why can we not support the closeness which the Minister is talking about here and which the Social Democratic Party strongly supports? That is what we have said in our health programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133817	I think it is the questioner who likes to think that things are going very well in psychiatry today and who needs to praise the regions for the work they are doing. I guess I just have a little bit of a different look at it and see some other nuances. I think this is one of the tasks that we can see that the regions have in no way been adequately taken up and where we need to lift our psychiatry further. That is why, in the autumn, we presented a psychiatry action plan with 43 specific initiatives and with an economic boost of 2.1 billion. kr., and that is why we now propose that there should be binding quality standards for what offers should be in the near health care system. And the Danish Health Authority points out that when we look at moderate and mild depression and anxiety, there are very much some people who are moving too far today and who might as well have been given a high-quality offer in the near health care and benefited from the psychologists we have, and benefitted from the fact that we have some competencies • also when we look at the child and young people area • which is closer to where people are. Of course, we should not move out treatments until we have the capacity or skills. That is not what the government is trying to do either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133921	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130133922	Will the Minister reply to me very briefly: is there an unused capacity in treatment psychiatry and social psychiatry today, or is everything running on the pumps because we do not have professional staff to take care of them? Is this the reason why there are considerable differences between regions and municipalities? Is it because it is difficult to recruit and maintain the necessary professional staff? Is that the picture the minister is meeting when the minister is going around the country? Because that's the picture I'm dreaming of for a solution to some problems, and that's why Better Psychiatric and SIND say: Well, damn it, man, the municipalities aren't ready for this today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134003	I believe that the questioner should, like him, deal with the challenges of psychiatry today, and there are many of them. That is also why we presented a psychiatry action plan in the autumn, and that is why we have taken a number of initiatives and that we are also setting out, with the reform of health, to take further initiatives to strengthen closeness and cooperation, including for our psychiatric patients who are today experiencing a kick-start between the systems; a binding framework for the 21 health communities, but also a plan, in other words, because there is also a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr. to build up capacity and skills in the near health care system so that more people with anxiety and depression will be able to receive their treatment in the near health care system in the future. Those treatments cannot be moved until the capacity and competences are there, and that is why we are going to invest in it. I was actually hoping that the Social Democrats would be involved in this. I hear you don't want to, and I think that's too bad, because psychiatry needs a boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134057	Then we go to the co-questioner, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134101	Then we're about to be where the steak is buried, or whatever you say. For this is to respond to specific concerns about capacity and resources with such a circular logic, called structure and structure, and if we just call it a binding framework and binding professional standard and quality plan, then it all solves itself, does not make sense. After all, everything points exactly to what the Minister himself ends with here, namely that we need to invest in this. When we talk about a quality plan where there must be binding professional standards, where a quality boost is promised, one has to ask where the economy is to ensure it. What kind of money can be used to hire the employees that enable the municipalities to take over these tasks and build up the skills that are not present now. Well, KL says there isn't enough money, the Elders case has quite the same concern, and now the minister is pointing to some money, and she then points to the proximity fund, at 6 billion. kr., where the 3 billion. kr. I know it goes to installations, bricks, and then there are 3 billion. kr. back to operation, and if we spread them out, it's 1⁄2 billion. kr. a year, so it's not permanent funds or am I wrong? And if we look at what you can get for them, we'll see it's 1⁄2 billion. kr. a year, and it costs 1 billion. kr. a year just to hire 2,000 extra nurses. So I'm gonna have to ask you again. The money is not there: the government cannot wrap up the structure and explanations with new lines on the Danish map, new fine concepts, new fine words, that it is not willing to allocate the funds needed to ensure the boost in psychiatry that we can very quickly agree on if we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134233	The Socialist Group in the European Parliament is also wrong on this point. This is also evident from the proposal we have put forward, because the part dealing with the operation of the proximity fund is, of course, permanent funds. But that does not change the fact that this is an extraordinary boost, it is an extraordinary boost with a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr., money which the Social Democrats do not have and which in no way alters the fact that we will have to invest in our health area, including psychiatry, in the years to come. We are not undermining the scope of the health reform that we are putting forward, we are making an extraordinary boost of 6 billion. kr. to invest in health houses, to invest in modern general practice, more ambulances across the country and also to invest in more hands and a skills boost here and now. 6 billion kr. extraordinary. I hope the Socialists will support this, because I think it is a boost that our health services might well need. When we put forward a well-prepared plan, it is of course because there is reason to make a well-prepared plan, because there are no easy solutions to the challenges we face, and that is also true in the field of psychiatry, where people with mental illness are entitled to invest, also in the years to come, in building a better coherence and closeness in treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134351	The question that remains, and which is what is also of great concern to the actors in psychiatry, is where that economy is. All the good, wonderful things that the Minister is saying she wants to do here today cannot be done for the amount that has been set aside. My next question round is whether that money is there at all or whether it is paper money, so I will not go into that now, but I will see if I can ask the Minister anything else. She said that there was a need for greater geographical similarity, and we can be very much in agreement on that. After all, it is estimated that there are about 30,000 children with mental illness, and when you look at this Danish map with the new health communities where we suddenly get 21 units, I just want to ask the Minister about the greater geographical similarity: what do the health communities that do not have children's and young psychiatry do for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134438	I hope, then, that at some point the Socialists will reach a point where they will also constructively and actively engage in talking about how to improve our health services, that is, the necessary changes that are needed. When we laid down the counties and created the regions, the Socialists were also opposed, and now we are in it again. We need to create a long-term development plan for our healthcare, and the Socialists are opposed. In relation to the question, I would say that psychiatry is connected to all 21 health communities, and that also means that even if you do not have a physical location, it is clear that psychiatry is at the table. This is also evident from our initiative, and we believe this to be important in terms of putting psychiatry and the somatics on an equal footing in the need we have to raise our close health care and create a better coherence in the years to come. And it will not least benefit people with mental disorders who today experience too little connection between what is happening in hospitals, what is happening in their own doctor and what is happening in the municipal psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134532	Then the main questioner has a final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134537	After all, the Minister had a few months to read the social democratic health issue, but it seems that the Minister is forgetting everything we have written about proximity and other things. On the other hand, we have noted how much the government has copied from our health issues in relation to proximity. I understand that patient organisations in the psychiatric field say: Well, damn it, government, bring something we can better understand how to hang together. That is the point of saying that the municipalities must be responsible and then not being able to indicate how they should be able to get the professional competence to lift it. I would now like to ask the Minister to answer the question I asked before and to which I was not given an answer: does the Minister think that the quality of social psychiatry, the municipal psychiatry, is today uniform to build on?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134626	I think there are too many variations in the 98 municipalities. That is why we want to create a quality plan for the close with binding standards. Unlike the Social Democrat Party, which apparently celebrates diversity, we say that we think that there has been too much room for manoeuvre when we talk about health services in the municipalities. We need to standardise them so that they are based on professional standards. It is precisely one of the things that goes through in our health reform that they need to build on a higher level of professionalism. This is also true in the field of psychiatry. Because something's getting close, it doesn't mean it's being municipally driven. After all, it is about the offers to the people we have also in the field of psychiatry. They must experience that more health services come close. It can be anchored out in a municipal health house, it can be anchored in general practice by specialist psychologists or elsewhere. I really hope that the Social Democratic Party will soon become more constructive instead of just being opposed. I actually believe that patients benefit from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134716	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5, and here there is also a co-questioner, but the roles have been reversed, so Mrs Astrid Krag is the main questioner, and Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen is a co-author, and they are both Social Democrats. And the question is for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134737	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister think it is reasonable to call it "patetic fake news" when Danske Regioner points out that the government has not provided concrete calculations on how to save 270 million. kr. the setting-up of the Regional Councils, ref. the Minister's reply to Danske Regioner on Twitter on 23 January 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130134758-2	Now I think the questioner should be careful that the questioner, like the one who quotes correctly in relation to what context it is. What I was commenting on was the claim that the government couldn't tell the difference between millions and billions. Actually, I don't think that's a level we should be discussing. I am happy to discuss the content of our health reform, but not what has such a little American presidential character, where instead of discussing the content, it is simply said that the opponent cannot know the difference between millions and billions. What is important to say in relation to our proximity fund, on which the question concentrates, is that it is 6 billion. kr., which we set up to spend extra on health care. It is money that goes beyond the scope that will be there year by year and how much of it will also have to be invested in strengthening our health care. That's 6 billion. kr., which you only have if you want to contribute to a health reform that also provides some of the proceeds. One-and-a-half billion. kr. of the 6 billion. kr. in the proximity fund, we will achieve by simplifying the structure as we know it today, i.e. by moving from three levels to two levels, in relation to where decisions are taken. Some of this comes directly from the regional councils, but some of it also comes from the fact sheet following the reform of health, from the administrative savings in non-health areas, in other words from some of the tasks that the regions are doing today, which in future will disappear or move up to the state and in which we assume that there will not be the same administration in this area. It is money that we want to move from bureaucracy and administration to treatment. We want to invest in our health services, and there we can, in total, release 1.5 billion. kr. Towards 2025. It is money that is part of the proximity fund and that enables us to lift the health care system by an extraordinary amount of 6 billion. kr. That's 6 billion. kr. that can go to new health houses that can go to modernise the general practice that can go to deploy 10-15 extra emergency medical cars and ambulances across the country and thus strengthen security throughout the country, and it is money where half can go to strengthen capacity, recruit more hands, strengthen skills out in the near health care. We do this in order to put the patient first in our healthcare system and to strengthen our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135008	I would just like to say that it is beyond the competence of the President to interfere in whether we should discuss millions or billions of euros that need to be clarified in the matter. Just so that we agree that it is the questioner who decides in principle whether it is a correct or wrong answer, but the answer decides the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135025	Well, let's not go down that way. Then I would just like to say to the Minister that when there is such a great deal of concern for that part of the 6 billion. kr. in the proximity fund, which is not new money, it is because I do not think that someone in our health care will find someone who thinks that you can run faster. And the fact that we have to make some efficiency gains, that is to say some money that we can get, that we can't get, we know where we're gonna end up hitting. And it's in a healthcare system where the employees are pressed already now and where they burn, but where there are still more who are afraid to burn out. So this is something that not only concerns us in the Social Democratic Party, but also more of the country's leading health economists, who have scratched their beards and looked deep into the government's papers and yet among other things. has said that there are certain elements of funding that are similar to thinking-on-one figures it is quite unclear how it is financed, and it does not add up. There are even some health economists who have compared it to magic spells. That is why it is very relevant to ask the government simply to put forward the calculation that we can understand after the press conference right over there in the building that is behind the Minister for Health, namely in the Ministry of Finance. There is a very clear paper, the Prime Minister has said, and one can see that at some point. It would be the very best thing to do for the further progress of this health reform that has been thrown on the table by the government if we could just get those figures out. Because it's hard to see how you've got that amount so high up. The fact that they are transferred from the regions and either to the municipalities or the state, when we talk about public transport, the specialized social area or special education, or whether it is soil pollution, the provision of youth education. Things don't get free from moving them, do they? I think the Minister will say there: no, that is right. Then it has to be said that this must be financed by regional party support and regional development strategy. Party support is 80 million. kr. per year including fees. And then these regional development strategies, where the best bet I've ever seen on what they cost is 5 million. kr. a year. Then it is a long way up to what the Minister has now many times already called an extraordinary boost and a boost and I do not know what in our health care. When we're so worried, it's because we're afraid of what's gonna happen if these gains aren't realized. Who, then, should run even faster? Who's gonna be in trouble? And that will ultimately be the patient. So if the calculation is over there, as the government has said, then I just want to ask the Minister calmly why we cannot see it then.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135255	Well, now the Socialist rapporteur is doing this standard politician's fin by, like, signalling and thus also factually saying something wrong, namely that the government should save a penny on health with our proposal for health reform. That is not correct. In other words, when the questioner says that they must now run even faster because the government wants to save on health and that this is money saved on health, I have to say that it is factually wrong. The administrative savings that we are proposing are in non-health-related areas. This is also apparent from the fact note, which I think the questioner himself can find on the Ministry of Finance's website, in relation to describing the economy on it. It is the case that the regions today spend about 2.5 billion. kr. the non-health-related tasks carried out by the regions. Of that money, the government assumes that we can save 270 million. kr. Overall, it provides a total of EUR 2025 1.5 billion. kr., i.e. money, we move from administration to treatment, as we invest in health care, which we put into the proximity fund. That brings us to the point that there are 6 billion in the proximity fund. DKK, which we can use to strengthen our close health care • get more health houses, more employees out there, more ambulances, more security, an extraordinary boost to health care. That is why we can actually ask back: do the Socialists want to go in and negotiate on how we can make this extraordinary health boost? I actually think there are many patient organisations and professional organisations that would like to know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135430	Well then, I have to quote my colleague here and say that the Minister can look at the social democratic health issue and see that we will raise our health area. We do not believe that it is an abuse of the scope, as the Minister said, but that it is perfectly reasonable for us to invest in our common health care services. I've seen that fact note that the minister talks about. There is no calculation, there is no answer to what we ask. Now the minister says that the government assumes that you can save this money and then spend it on health. What I would like to know is: on what basis does this require? When we hear that regional development strategies cost 5 million. kr. Every year, and that it is primarily money that is used for managing transport and the environment, how the hell can you say it in the Danish Parliament?Can you have it pumped up to such a huge amount of money on the government's part? Can't we just get that math out of here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135519	Two-and-a-half billion. kr. use regions every year in non-health-related areas. There has also been a very high growth over the last 10 years in general in the regions where there have been almost 1,000 additional staff in the administration. Of the 2.5 billion. kr. The government is proposing to be able to move every year what amounts to 270 million. kr., from bureaucracy, from administration to treatments. This gives us the opportunity to add 1.5 billion. kr. Into the proximity fund, we reach 6 billion. kr., which we can invest extraordinaryly in our health care, because we want to invest in our health care • a more close healthcare system, a more coherent healthcare system, where we put patients first, raise quality and also ensure that their patient rights are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135608	Then it's the co-questioner. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135613	Now the minister is talking about politicians. Well, that's what we're witnessing. There's a lot of tricks in this class. Another trick is to speak out completely, to speak in plunder and to repeat, and that is what we are witnessing here. I would like to follow up Mrs Astrid Krag's question. The Minister of Innovation has said about this equation that you want to unfold it at some point, and the Prime Minister says: you get the calculation at some point. I would just like to ask the Minister: is it the intention to live up to this? Are you bringing anything other than the note to which the Minister refers here and which is not a calculation that does not give the answer, which is still a trick to anyone who wants to find out what is of money in this and whether there is an economy for it? When you say about the development strategies in the regions that so much can be saved and Danske Regions come back with a calculation that shows that it is not relevant at all, then it helps to make the government not sharp on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135721	I guess it's more about whether the Socialists want to engage constructively in some debates on how we can raise our health care, how we can improve our health care by also making some changes, how we can move some money from bureaucracy and administration to treatment and high quality for patients. That's kind of what the government's up to. If we look at the regions, then some regions that have also had administrative growth over the last 10 years, then we are going to add out of the 2.5 billion. crowns spent on non-health-related tasks must be moved slightly more than 10%. towards 2025 to be able to enter the proximity fund, so that we move 1.5 billion overall. kr., both in connection with the changes we make in relation to the regional councils, but also the changes we make in relation to simplifying the administration. We also believe that this is an important political priority for the future, i.e. if, when a regional development strategy falls away, when the cultural money administration is moved into the Ministry of Culture, and when other changes are made as a result of the health reform, we will also help to look at and ensure that the funds released instead of being able to go to strengthen our health care. I really hope that the Socialists will enter into these negotiations so that we can join together in raising our health services in an extraordinary way with the 6 billion. DKr, located in the proximity fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135846	I think this is annoying. I really think it is annoying that we can stand here and try to have a very objective discussion about this, and then we'll just hear the same thing one more time, without the Minister even trying to listen to what the question is about, but just talking out there. I would like to ask once again: as regards the calculation that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Innovation have said earlier, it will be unfolded or it will not be unfolded. If it doesn't unfold soon, you'll all be fooled.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130135924	I really believe that this is basically about whether we want to take responsibility for the development of our health services, and that is what the government is doing with the health reform that we have put forward. In this way, we have also proposed, with the reform of health, that six billion can be invested in exceptional cases with the proximity fund. kr. in our healthcare system, so we get more modern health houses, more ambulances and more employees out there with higher competencies. Towards 2025 comes 1.5 billion. kr. of those from savings on e.g. administration. It is therefore money that we move from bureaucracy and administration to treatment. That's about 10%. of the administrative expenditure currently in non-health-related areas. The real question is whether the Socialists seriously believe that it is unrealistic to be able to save around 10%. the cost of the administrative tasks currently in the regions in relation to non-health-related areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140015	Then the main questioner has a final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140018	That's a total gibberish. In fact, I find it extremely provocative that the government thinks we are so stupid that we cannot understand that moving public transport to municipalities, the specialized social area to municipalities, special education for children and young people to municipalities does not do so for free, and there is also some bureaucracy that goes with it. When you move soil pollution, the provision of youth education and culture to the state, there is also bureaucracy that goes with it. Well, there may be some red tape you can save. Danish Regions point to 5 million. kr. a year; the government says it's 270 million. kr. It's a long way from 5 million. kr. EUR 270 million; kr. We would just like to see the calculation that would make it possible for the government to get close to the 270 million. kr. And so far, we have to say that the government will not go along with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140105	Well, as I've said before, there's a fact note on the Ministry of Finance's website. And what I understand, then, is that the Social Democrats believe to be completely unrealistic is that one simplifies a structure and lays out some tasks to the municipalities and lays up some tasks for the state. In other words, some players already have administration in this area. Let's take the field of culture. Today, some relatively small amounts are administered in five places, each with its secretariat and administrative setup, and we put this under the Ministry of Culture. We do not assume that it will require the same administration. This means that, as a government, we are very much in line with the fact that, in relation to non-health-related administrative tasks, which today cost about 2.5 billion. kr. in the regions, up to 2025, can release what is approximately a little more than 10%, so that we can move that money from administration to treatment and strengthen our health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140158	Thank you. That was the end of Question 5. I would like to call on the questioner and the Minister to help make the time fit a little more accurately. It is as if there has been a systematic violation of speaking time. If we help each other, we may succeed. We are going to Question 6 to the Minister for Health, and here Mrs Astrid Krag is also the main questioner, and the questioner is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen. They're both Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140228	Thank you for keeping us in our ears. I read the question out loud: does the Minister believe that it gives a true picture of the savings on administration in the health reform, that the government does not include the cost of fees for the up to 300 new board posts in the 21 health communities, the five health administrations and the new national board?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140250	Thank you for the question. This is, in fact, a very good question, because hopefully we can clarify some of the misunderstandings and myths that I hear the Socialists have toured around with, that there should now suddenly be a lot of board fees. So let me start with the health communities. In the health communities, where hospitals, general practice and municipalities will be represented, there will be 21 health communities here to provide a more binding framework for our cooperation in the near health care sector for the benefit of patients, so that they do not experience that they fall between two chairs. In fact, we believe that it is part of their job description that they should help to support better cooperation, and that is why, of course, we do not propose that the director of the emergency hospital or the psychiatrist should receive a higher salary. I don't know if that's what the Social Democratic Party had been thinking. This also applies to the political superstructure. It is not the case that the government takes the view that, when we are the mayor and the chairman of the Health Committee, we must be involved in coordinating and assuming responsibility for ensuring that our close health care services are more coherent for patients, that proper print-out agreements are made so that we do not lose people with mental disorders when they go from treatment psychiatric to social psychiatry, or our older fellow citizens, must be honoured. We are not going to pay more to the mayor or committee chairman. So it's kind of nice to be able to clarify those things. Then there are the regional councils that we have today, with the 205 Regional Council members. After all, they are replaced by a total of 36 board members. Then there are 11 national and there are 30 in the health authorities, but there are 5 of them who are revenants and who are both presidents of the regional boards and anchored in health care Denmark. That's where we plan for them to have a board of directors' fee. We would like to discuss this with the parties, which we hope will be part of a majority to take part in taking responsibility for our health care. And I can also say that we have also taken this into account in the direct savings we have calculated to be 1.5 billion. kr., and which we then transfer to the proximity fund to strengthen our health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140504	But there we have it again, as indicated by the round of questions we had just before, where the Minister like to say: the way we have judged that we can move money is extremely realistic. Suddenly we can have some money that we can then spend on our health care and call it an extraordinary boost. This is extremely realistic. We just don't want to do the math. And now the minister tells me that what it's going to cost in board fees, because I assume that these boards must also have some kind of service... you've deducted from your calculation. We just need to be calm there. You've got that under control. But then lay it out, dear government. This is what concerns not only us Social Democrats, but those organisations that have been critical on the ground, and indeed those health economists who cannot make the economy stick together in the government's proposals and who cannot make it fit that suddenly with a fingertips you can conjure up all these new free means for our health in a health service that is already so pressured. So, as I said before, if it is so realistic, then the calculation must be put forward. In the past, it was a matter of the government claiming to be able to release 270 million. kr. on something that on paper costs 5 million. kr. Today it's a pretty big buckle. But that is realistic enough, says the Minister. Fair enough. Then put it out. I have to say the same to the Minister here. If it's against what it's gonna cost to have these many new people sit and make decisions and what it's gonna cost to serve them, then put it forward. Then we can be without these discussions. Instead, we can discuss where we agree quite specifically that we need change and need new solutions. But the reality is that it is not true when the government tries to draw a picture that we get a simpler system when we go from three to two levels. No, the reality is that we go from three to four levels, some would even say five levels when we look at the fact that the municipal councils also have to be involved here. And it will be increased bureaucracy. There will be more closed decision-making procedures, and that will, of course, cost something, both on democratic deficits and in crowns and ears. And that's why I'm just sending this silent appeal that we may see the calculations the government says it has made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140707	Well, I actually said last time that I was happy to have this question, because I can see from the question that the Socialists were walking around with the idea that there were 300 board members who should have a fee. Then I understand that you can't make the economy stick together. That is why I am glad to be able to clarify that this is not what the government is proposing. We are not suggesting that the hospital director or the psychiatric director or the mayor should be paid more. We don't. And that is why there will be 36 items which we assume there will be some sort of remuneration. We have also taken this into account in relation to the direct savings that we are proposing up to 2025 of 1.5 billion. kr., which we can then transfer from administration to better treatments in our health care system. And, ultimately, it is a priority that we simplify and in this way can actually invest more money in our healthcare for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140757	I find it very difficult to see any simplification in what the government is proposing. And when you look at the composition of the many boards and how many people are going to play and how closed it is, in terms of how you as a citizen have access, and how you, as a press, have insight into what is going on here, unlike the good democratic system we have today, with local elected representatives and insight, then I simply cannot accept the Prime Minister's premise that this is becoming more transparent and less bureaucratic. But let me just ask again: why are we not allowed to see these figures? And does the Minister not think that there will be some cost to the operation of health communities, or are they simply self-winding in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140838	Well, we don't save a penny on the administration of health-related tasks. And that is why we also assume that it is the health authorities who must be involved in the secretariat service of the health communities too, so that we ensure that there is both the knowledge that is needed and the coherence that is also needed across our country, so that we do not have 21 different solutions, but that we can help to support it with the secretariat service that needs to be provided by the health authorities. In addition, it is important to say that I understand that the Social Democrats cannot make things stand together if the Social Democrats assume that mayors and directors must have more in fees. That is not what the government is calling for. We suggest that the 36 items which, like replacing the existing ones, should have some sort of remuneration. And no, we do not believe that there should be transparency in the decision-making structure either. After all, as our health reform shows, there will be both citizen consultation, patient involvement and, of course, transparency and transparency in the decisions that will be taken, obviously, because this is about our healthcare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140938	Then we have to go to the co-questioner, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130140945	As well as the last one, the current question reflects the massive criticism that we Socialists too have an understanding of, which is why the government does not have any more openness about the economy behind the government's health reform. Some have said that there are so many things, it's like think of a number or magic spell in terms of the economy. After all, the Minister is once again responding in a way that makes it seem as if the criticism is completely baffling as if it is not conducive to the political initiatives and the political discussions that the Social Democrats really want to be involved in in order to create more proximity to our health services. But it's annoying that there are these uncertainties that everyone has to pull out and say: we can't get an understanding of it, we can't see how this is connected in purely economic terms. And that is where I think the government is setting such a stumbling line for itself and for a broader popular and political understanding of the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141054	I really think that we on the part of the government are very, very clear in our priorities. We want an extraordinary increase in our health service of 6 billion. kr. 1⁄2 billion. kr. These come from the simplification we make when we go from three political levels to two political levels, when administratively we also cut down on the non-health-related areas that currently lie in the regions. That makes it possible for us to move 1 1⁄2 billion. kr. From administration and bureaucracy to treatment and to good quality for patients. The extraordinary boost is, of course, an important part of the investment that must be in our close health care over the coming years, like a start-up capital, just as we made the fund to build our modern super hospitals across the country. There we also made a fund for our specialized health care. Now we're creating a proximity fund where we put 6 billion. kr. extraordinary, so they can invest in a modern health house, in general practices, in multiple ambulances, in several competencies out there. I am glad to be able to clarify here today that no, the government is not going to pay 300 board members, as I actually understand that the Social Democrats want us to do so in the political negotiations we are putting forward for the remuneration of 36 people who are going to be involved in the operation of our health services in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141208	With regard to initial capital, I would like to say that if we are to raise risk capital for something, we would like to be able to turn the paper carefully through, wing it off and say that this is what we believe there is transparency and transparency in. The government doesn't want anyone to be able to do that in relation to this health reform project when it comes to the economy. Of course, we are asking questions about where the money comes from and where the money is going, and it is not only the Social Democratic Party that is asking these critical questions. It is also true that many health economists and experts have been doing this since mid-January when the government presented their proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141250-2	That is why it is also nice to have the opportunity today to put down some of the myths that I hear the Social Democrats are touring around with, among other things. that the government should provide for 300 board members to be paid a fee. I am very pleased to be able to say today that no, we do not assume that the directors of the psychiatrist, the emergency hospital or the other hospitals will have to receive an additional fee, and so do the mayors and committee chairmen. So do the 2 x 98, because all municipalities will have to be represented in our future health communities, so that we will also have a strong anchoring in the municipalities, when we now also have binding standards to raise the quality of our close health care. So it is not intended to spend 300 fees, but 36 and, of course, we are happy to elaborate on this, even in the political negotiations, where I also hope that the Social Democratic Party will be involved in taking responsibility for the health care of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141343	And then there is a final question from the main questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141348	Thank you. When we are so concerned about this, it is of course because a substantial part of all the various promises now made by the government in the field of health, both good things, things that the Social Democrats have also proposed, but also things that we may be less in agreement with, are based on savings that we believe can be achieved. The reality is that one does not remove a layer, because one retains the regional layer, and then one adds a new layer further into the system, and that is why we are left with a system that becomes more bureaucratic than what we have now. The government then claims that it will be cheaper to operate a heavier system with more layers and more bureaucracy, and here we are just saying quite calmly, quite peacefully: could we then be allowed to see the calculations that show that by creating a more bureaucratic system we can save on bureaucracy? The Minister will not do so, and I think it is increasingly clear why the figures will not be presented, because they do not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141442	As I have answered earlier and as I would like to repeat, there is a fact note on the Ministry of Finance's website, which the questioner is welcome to go in and look at where it says what administrative savings are made in the non-health-related areas that the government wants to save in the years to come, so that we can move the money from administration to strengthened quality in our healthcare. What is important for the government, also in relation to the proximity fund of the 6 billion. kr., is, in fact, that we also set a direction for health care over the coming years, where we get more proximity and where we get more coherence. We believe that the 21 health communities, which are much closer to where citizens live today than the five regions are, will have a binding framework for close health care. That is what is needed, and it is not about bureaucracy; it is about improved models of cooperation for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141528	I would like to thank the Minister for Health, and thank Mrs Astrid Krag and Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen for 42 minutes of intensive and very exciting debate on health reform and psychiatry. We shall now move on to something quite different, namely Question No 1. 7, and that is for the Minister of Finance, and the questioner is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, and he comes from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141550	Thank you. I should like to ask the Finance Minister the following question: Has the Minister changed his mind on the question of whether digital taxation is best implemented at EU level, in the light of the Minister's statement to the Ritzau Bureau on 22 January 2019, and can it be expected that the Minister is still behind the mandate recently endorsed by the Minister in the European Committee, and should the Minister's statement be understood as meaning that the Minister is no longer of the opinion that there is a risk of a counter-reaction from the United States if the European Union chooses to introduce a digital tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141623	The short answer to the questions is: No, yes, no. But since I am now a politician, it would be strange if I stopped so quickly, so let me put some extra words on. No, I have not changed my mind as to whether it is a good idea to make an EU tax in relation to making a global OECD solution. Yes, I am still behind the mandate given to me in the Committee on European Affairs. No, I don't think there's a reduced risk of a counter-reaction from the United States. So, the point is that a number of European politicians have said very openly that the reason they wanted a European solution was to hit the taxation of American companies. It is clear, then, that such a message is important. If we had heard the opposite, namely that another country said that now they would make a special tax to hit Danish companies, we would of course think: Well, should we not also take and make a reaction the opposite way? We cannot wipe it away quietly, and that is why I am concerned about the American response to such a European tax. What I have said is that my starting point remains a global solution. Let us now give the OECD a few years to examine a global solution, and if it does not succeed within a few years, we can of course sit down and look at what we should do then but without taking a position in advance, without pre-discounting what to do if necessary. Because if you have a stupid solution, waiting two years with it doesn't make it any better, because then it's still a stupid solution. That is why we need to come up with wise solutions, and that is the mandate that I, fortunately, received in the Committee on European Affairs, and I stand by that mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141807	It was, of course, a mandate given to the Minister for Finance, thanks to the Danish People's Party. No one else was interested in supporting the otherwise excellent mandate of the Minister for Finance. I am actually pleased that the Minister of Finance here confirms the agreement that I believe we have in the Danish People's Party with the government on this issue. The reason why I raised the question down here in Question Time is that I could read that, as the title says, among other things. The newspaper Denmark on 23 January; and also in B.T. and elsewhere it has been running here: •Kristian Jensen opens up an EU solution on digital tax. That is not what we were able to do with that mandate. With that mandate, we said that we wanted an OECD consolidated solution, precisely because we agree with the Minister for Finance that it may well mean a counter-reaction by the United States if we start doing something about this quite, quite unisonly. I must also say that when I read the article, which was taken from the Ritzau Bureau, I can be a little bit nervous about whether the Minister for Finance could now be tempted to move away from the mandate we have given. But I may feel a little calmed here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130141933	Then I hope I can make the questioner more reassured when we are done with the questions. I say in the article that a compromise requires France to move. And if it is the case that an EU solution can be found by the others moving to Denmark's position, then we are really a good place. However, this means that they must move away from the solution that risks costing Danish taxpayers a great deal of money, because such a model, where you are taxed after turnover and not after where the values are created, means that all the countries that export very much will have companies that are about to lay tax dollars abroad instead of tax dollars in Denmark, and that will be detrimental to the Danish Treasury. That is why I am warning against a solution that could lead to such a new way of taxing. I think that the OECD model, which talks about creating a global minimum taxation system to ensure that there is a level playing field for all companies, is a much more comprehensible path. Even though we have been concerned in the past about making minimum solutions in the field of taxation, this is one of the things we need to look at in relation to a globalised world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142037	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142039	I agree with some of what the Minister said. I have to say that I took the view that the mandate which the Minister pursued in the Committee on European Affairs included as the third dot and now I am quoting from it: if, contrary to expectations, agreement is not reached in the OECD, there will probably be a strong desire among the EU countries to take a position on possible action in the EU alone. The government will also be prepared to do so. Such measures could be the German proposal introduced in the European Union alone, but they could also be other proposals, and it would therefore not be possible to adopt a DST, i.e. a Digital Services Tax in the European Union. The minister still agrees with the third dot, is that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142125	Sorry, it was the Minister who replied, and it is the questioner who is asking now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142130	The other could also be interesting, i.e. to see how it went. Well, that is good, because I know it myself too, namely that you have to be a little careful about what you say to the press, and sometimes the press can interpret things in a way that is not beneficial to you and that creates unnecessary noise about the political message you want to deliver. But I am pleased that the Minister still stands for the OECD solution as the right solution in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142158	The fact is that the issue we are discussing here between the United States and Europe is also going on within the United States, and it is going on between Canada and China and between Australia and India. That is why the idea that a European solution must be found and that others can find their solutions, something that does not suit the world in which we live. Many of the Danish companies are global, they sell and buy all over the world, they have customers distant from Denmark, and therefore we need to find a solution that can cover us globally. The only thing that actually lives up to that is the OECD, where the whole of the major economies of the Western world from Japan to Chile sit together and help find solutions to how to move forward. And the OECD itself has an assessment that within a year they can come up with a concrete proposal for solving the problem. That is why we need to go that way, in other words to find common solutions that are comprehensive, beyond the borders of the European Union as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142252	Thank you to the questioner. We can now move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister for Finance, and therefore he remains in the Chamber. The questioner is sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142306	Thank you. Is it correct to understand that the Minister disagrees in principle with introducing a differentiated retirement age so that, for example, skilled and unskilled workers can retire before the general retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142320	That is normal when some say that they are really happy with the question because they are not at all. But listen to me: I am afraid there are many who are being worn out in the labour market, also in today's Denmark. Although we have carried out a great many campaigns to do further training, retraining and various jobs, many are being worn out. But there are also many who are doing well. There are also many who continue to work well beyond retirement age. In fact, over the last few years, there are more and more +60-year-olds, and perhaps especially +65-year-olds, who have remained in the labour market because they want to be active. So the question is whether a differentiated pension is something that is targeted at people who are worn out, because then I think it is a very good idea also to look at the schemes we have or whether it is something that you just want to lubricate according to some criteria that will make me, for example. In the past, it would be possible to retire. My background is that I am skilled, well enough with an office training behind me, and started on the labour market at 20 years old. A certain age limit for skilled workers would mean that I might be able to stop and retire at the age of 60. Is this fair compared to a nurse or kindergarten teacher who has a longer education and has started later, but perhaps has had a more grueling job? I am not saying that because it is always easy to be Minister of Finance, but I have not been Minister of Finance all my life and will hardly be all the way until my 60th birthday. So I would ask a little what kind of proposal this is, if any, on the part of the Social Democratic Party. At any rate, I and the government are very keen that where we use our powers, those who become worn out are targeted. It is both in order to change the rules in advance so that we prevent wear and tear, but also where it becomes necessary to give people a previous pension, it is targeted to those who are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142532	Now I do not think the Minister for Finance should worry, for he has already been a minister for many years both the right and the right to withdraw long before others. After all, the Socialist proposal takes care that we have entered into a welfare agreement with open eyes, in which the retirement age is increasing gradually over the coming many, many years and has already done so. When we concluded the welfare agreement at the time, it was also provided that there was a proper early retirement pay which took care of all the people who had started at the earliest in the labour market. We can see that it is no longer doing so, after both before and after the last election, changes were made to the early retirement wage. That is why our proposal is that those who have been longest in the labour market should also be able to retire early. However, I do not think that the Minister for Finance answered the question of whether he disagrees in principle with the fact that a differentiated retirement age is being made in line with some of the principles proposed by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142625	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142626	My challenge is that I do not understand the principles proposed by the Social Democratic Party. When you look down through them, it says that it must be done according to seniority in the labour market, but I have not met anyone who can say what seniority in the labour market it should be if necessary. Actually, we checked it out ourselves. When we sat in government in 2011 and did the early retirement reform, we examined whether it was possible to make a seniority period instead. At that time, no information was available to enable people to follow when they had entered the labour market. That is why I am asking: what kind of proposal is this? What length of service does the Social Democratic Party intend to earn? Then I just have to arrest something: Ministers retire at the same time as everyone else. If you have had an individual pension scheme in the past with an agreed pension date, there is nothing in the legislation that has been made in here that changes it in the ordinary labour market. Officials retire at the time agreed upon in their appointment, and in the future it will also be the case that ministers and members of parliament have exactly the same retirement age as others have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142732	When Bo Normann Rasmussen from AP Pension, who is a pension fund with 400,000 customers, today tells JP Finans that it is easy to create a seniority-based system, and that it is not in that sense surrounded by such great challenges to find out how long people have been on the labour market, is he wrong? That is the first part of the question. The second part of the question is that I do not think the Minister for Finance will answer whether we agree or disagree in principle that there may be good sense in differentiating the retirement age, or whether in fact we are merely trying to open up the possibility of looking only at the senior early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142810	I would be delighted if anyone had found a solution, but I am surprised that the Social Democrats did not use it from 2011 to 2015 when they were in government. After all, the questioner says that it is because the early retirement scheme was changed that a different pension scheme will now be set up. It was therefore amended when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment. It is her name that is on the bill, which is why you had plenty of time to change it if possible. So let us finally see; I am very open. We have said that we would like to look at what kind of proposal it is, but it will have to be more specific than these seven headings, which are the most concrete one can see today in the publication published from there and which does not give any indication of what this is about. I am of the opinion that I would much rather make a determined effort to help those who are worn out. I think that's the best way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142900	It is precisely the development we have had that makes us take stock of the situation and try to solve the problem. The whole idea of our proposal is that people should be allowed to leave the labour market before they are broken down before they have to go through all kinds of job clearance processes, etc. and stand with your hat in your hand and ask for early retirement. This is the whole basic idea because we think it is fair. We believe this, both because there are many people who have put an average of ten years more on the labour market than so many others have, and because in fact it is also the people who have paid the biggest bills and the biggest price for the crisis and the recovery that we have been through. That is actually what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130142939	I thought we were discussing how to ensure a labour market where people are not worn out. At least that's what I'm discussing. I am also discussing how to ensure a fair distribution of pension ages. Fortunately, the Danes are diverse and different. One cannot just put it in such a way that, if one has a particular education or has entered the labour market at a certain time, one ends up with a particular situation. It's like 35 to 40 percent. of the 60-year-old unskilled people live longer than 60-year-olds with higher education. It is the case that the factors that determine whether you live long or short are very independent of your educational background, but have much more to do with what you call KRAM, that is, diet, smoking, alcohol and exercise. Therefore, you might have to look at something quite different if it was to look at how high the retirement age it is fair people should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143029	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It is the same questioner and the same minister. I'll ask the questioner, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy, about reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143039	Does the Minister agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior that the early retirement should be abolished altogether and that the supply of labour among skilled and unskilled workers should be further increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143049	I think it has simply been agreed with the next one asking that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior should sit next to me when I say no. And the government doesn't have any plans to change the payroll. It is a system that is still possible for some to use if they choose to use it. We opened up the possibility at some times that if you wanted to withdraw from the early retirement scheme because you feel that you are now able to work something longer and have no prospect of using it, you have the opportunity to get your savings back. Some have taken advantage of it. But changing the early retirement scheme as it is is is not part of government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143132	That is at least very uplifting in all this debate. But what is the Minister's position on the problem of wear and tear in general on the labour market? We discussed this a little earlier on in the previous question. In the past, the Minister has stated that, from his point of view, the senior early retirement pension already provides sufficient scope for early retirement. After all, it is a system which both the trade union movement and patient associations have proclaimed to be not too worn out, but a system for those who are completely broken down. Is it the ambition of the Minister and the Government that the only way to early retirement from the labour market should be through labour testing, meetings with case workers and medical consultations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143213	I belong to those who believe that it is a serious problem that people become worn out and that we should take it very seriously. However, early retirement is in fact a scheme in which nine out of ten of those seeking it receive it. So it is not such a refusal system where it is impossible for people who choose to seek to come in. One might then wonder why no more people have sought in the light of the discussion that has been about wear and tear. Perhaps that is because knowledge of the system has not come out to the extent we have expected. And we must of course consider what we are doing in order to ensure that the Danes know that there is a model to withdraw earlier if you are worn out. But I am in principle in favour of the fact that the arrangements we have have have a visitation in relation to being able to come up with them. We need to have a labour market where we can retrain and retrain people for new tasks if they are worn out in the jobs they are in, because the more people who offer their labour in Denmark, the more jobs there will be occupied, and thus we become a richer society in Denmark. That is my aim: to create a rich society. But it should not be at the expense of people who are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143318	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143320	Well, that is quite fine, I think the Minister for Finance says so, and I really believe that we share both that position and that ambition. Then there is the question of how best to do it. I believe and am convinced that the reason why there are no more people applying for a senior early retirement pension is that this is not a dignified way in which the scheme is knitted together to leave the labour market. I would also like to return to the previous question: does the Minister of Finance not agree with me that there is something fair about the fact that if you have worked 10 years longer than an academic, in worn-out jobs, in jobs where you lift many kilos, and where your back and back are wearing out, you also have a dignified way of leaving the labour market in a tiny amount of time before others? The wear and tear is essential if you are not to have the exercise you have to exercise when the Minister of Finance referred earlier to the KRAM factors.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143414-2	I think we should treat all Danes with dignity, and that is why I think that if there are places where we feel that the treatment we receive is unworthy, we should look at it critically. But I think it is interesting to discuss whether pension is a right that you earn over a certain number of years, or is it a function, in relation to how much you have paid into tax, or is it a life event at a certain date, or what is it really? Because there's a lot of ways to look at this. If it's a question of how long you've been at work, it doesn't matter how long a year If you've worked a lot extra, whether it's as an academic or as a teacher assistant, how does that count? How's that? That is why I actually think that the model we have today, where it is a scheme based on one's expected life expectancy on average, and we are different, so it becomes an average, is the right way to go about it. And then we have special arrangements, aid schemes, for those who, unfortunately, are being worn out early.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143524	Then it is the questioner here in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143525	But doesn't the Minister of Finance agree with me about this, and he said it a little earlier, and I just need him to repeat that when you introduced the senior early retirement pension in 2011 as a Band-Aid on the wound, for you to significantly reduce the post-retirement wage, it was estimated that 8,000 would make use of this scheme, and the latest figure is now only 700? Is it not an expression of the fact that that system simply does not work or that it is too difficult to make available or that it seems unworthy of people to seek because it does not take into account what kind of wear and tear that is in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143559	I don't know why there's not the same search on it. Now I'm not sure I heard the number right. If I heard correctly about the figure mentioned by the questioner, I have at least seen another number and a higher number, but let it be. Because whether it is the number of the questioner or the number that I have in mind, it is significantly below what was expected. It is clear, then, that there is reason to look at whether it is because the scheme is difficult to get into, whether it is because it is less known to get into, whether it is because you are out in the boxes, in the employment services, in the health centres, or where you are now, you do not know that there is a way here that people can be helped out of the labour market, if it is the case that they are worn out, if it is the case that they need the community to give them an opportunity to have a life outside the labour market. I think we should examine this together. What is it that makes the use of senior early retirement not what we expected in 2012?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143656	Thank you both to the Minister and to the questioner. We're playing with replacement here, so we're switching both the minister and the questioner. The next is questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. That's by Mr. Keating. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143710	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143712	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is right and proper for municipalities and other public actors to set unilaterally the deadlines for when they will pay their bills from companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143726	The short answer is no, and I hope that is not the case either. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that all public authorities should pay their bills on time, and that, of course, also applies to municipalities and regions which belong to my area of responsibility. This also applies, of course, to the state, for there to be no doubt about it. It may be of great importance for the individual company if the public authorities do not pay on time for a product or work supplied by the company. This is related to the fact that the company itself also has bills to be paid. An unpaid bill may, of course, have a very negative impact on a company, even when it is the public debtor. My position is clear: it is not right and proper for municipalities or other public actors to pay bills too late. The fact that you do not pay on time can only be discussed in my optics if there is some kind of dispute about the fact that what has been agreed has not been delivered. It is a situation that we all know, probably from our own everyday lives, that you may have ordered something that you have not received, and then a dispute can arise. These situations must, of course, be dealt with within the framework laid down for resolving disputes in the individual contract, and this also means that one does not have one-sided access to decide that one will not pay. Municipalities and other public actors cannot do so, I would like to stress that, unilaterally, set deadlines for payment when a company provides a service. It is the company that sets the payment deadline and there are rules for setting payment deadlines in the EU Payment Directive. These rules provide that the payment deadline cannot be more than 30 days and they are made to protect companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143910	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130143911	As a starting point, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that we basically agree that public authorities must respect their payment deadlines in the same way that we, as citizens in relation to public authorities, must respect ours. However, the situation is just that I hear of a great many examples of companies that are being told that they will get their money when the public authority has paid out and not before, and that is when the public authority unilaterally decides. I simply do not think that this is right, because there are precisely the negative consequences that the Minister has pointed out. After all, the company which has done a job for a public authority has some to pay. They have to pay salaries, they have to pay for materials they have purchased, etc. etc. So it is simply not right for the public sector to have a habit of saying that it is the one who, we should say, the big brother in this undertaking, sets the payment deadlines. Of course, I am glad that the Minister agrees in principle, but we should have liked to have moved on to this. In what way do companies have the opportunity to support the EU rules, and what do I know when the small company as the main customer has the municipality, the region that unilaterally sets the deadline? So where is it you go and hit the table? Yeah, you get elected from next time. That is what I would like the Minister to think about. I am not going to go into the issue of disputes, because that is obvious, because it is quite different rules that apply in this context. But that is where a small craftsman has a bill that he does not get paid because the municipality or another authority unilaterally sets the payment deadline and is not at all influenced by sending a reminder, and there is the unspoken consequence that it is not certain that you will get the job next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144120	It is clear that it is a very relevant part of the issue that the questioner raises here, in other words that there is a relationship between two players which is very distorted, because the public authority can often be a very crucial customer for the private company supplying the authority concerned, whether it is a municipality, a region or the state. That's why there's a bias in that relationship. But it can be said that basically, and I am so glad we agree on that, and we probably did, before we arrived here today, there is no doubt as to what the rules are like. There is no doubt that municipalities, on an equal footing with citizens and businesses, must comply with the payment deadlines that apply. There is no doubt about this. We may also move on to the next question now, firstly, the question that has been asked is a little bit about how the problem is and how I look at it. I see it in the same way as the questioner. The next question that comes up is: what can we do about it? However, if I may just say one thing, it is that at least in 2015 the Modernisation Authority issued a guide on payment deadlines and the collection of fees and interest, which also applies to public authorities. And that's a place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144230	There's the advantage of this system that you don't have to get the whole answer given, because the questioner always asks again if he gets the chance. Here you go, sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144236	Thank you. The Minister is right, of course, that the two issues are built up, so that the first is about the basic principle, and that is where I understand we are on the line, and I am also glad that there are papers on it and that there is a guide that is right. However, I would like to get to the heart of the issue, namely the unequal relationship between the two players, and I am sure that we will come back to that in the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144309	I promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144313	It was very short and precise. Is there more to this question, sir? Orla Sea? There isn't. Then we start with Question 11, and it is again for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and for Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144323	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144324	Will the Minister take the initiative to ensure that municipalities and other public actors comply with payment deadlines set by the suppliers in line with that set by inter alia: municipalities determine for the contributions of citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144340	Yeah, I think we should. I brought two things here today. Firstly, I will ensure that the guidance given by the Modernisation Authority, which I mentioned in relation to the previous question, on payment deadlines and the collection of fees and interest on late payment, is sent to all municipalities and regions by the end of February. At the same time, it will be clear to all municipalities and regions that they must make sure that they pay their bills on time. This is a quick way of making municipalities and regions aware of what rules are in force. Secondly, I would like to look at whether there is a need to create the possibility of imposing sanctions on municipalities and regions if they do not make sure that their bills are paid on time. It may seem as if, and I say it deliberately, that it may seem as if the municipalities and regions today do not have enough incentive to make payments as well. I am not going to come up with a finished model for this today, but I would like to look at how it can be done and, of course, also take a dialogue with both the author's party and other parties of the Folketing to find out how we can put power behind the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144451	I am very pleased that the Minister will send out a guide to other ministers would perhaps have used the term a shepherd's letter to the municipalities about their obligations, and it should of course be a matter of course that those rules were followed. I am delighted that the Minister will take this initiative, but I am just afraid that it is not enough, because we are out in that distorted area where the small master craftsman is deeply dependent on the municipality which has become so large that he has difficulty in going to the neighbouring municipality and getting a similar job. So the work the Minister will have to do is the more I do not know whether it is called sanctions. It could also be part of the annual agreements concluded between KL and Danske Regions, that this is therefore a requirement in relation to the ordinary, I had almost said pli and in relation to general business conditions in our society, and that it is a requirement from society that you as a public authority also make sure that you pay your bills. So just the idea for the minister to take it into the yes, now I hope it is another minister who will have to hold the forthcoming negotiations, but it is a completely different discussion • the negotiations with KL and Danske Regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144620	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144621	In spite of the questioner's hope of a change of minister soon, I would nevertheless like to acknowledge what I consider to be an outstretched hand in that together we can also discuss various kinds of solutions to the problem. Therefore, I also think that some of what I could set in motion was to try to get a coverage of the scale of the problem • whether there are individual municipalities where there is a particular problem, or whether it is something that is spread across all the municipalities of the country and then in connection with it look at what it is then for sanctions or agreements or other that is appropriate to the extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144656	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144657	In other words, it is always wise to base ourselves on facts and data, so no objection on my part to that part of it and also a commitment that, of course, the Social Democrats will be involved in a discussion on how to ensure fairness and fairness in this area. But just a little friendly call: please make sure to ask the organizations that represent these small craftsmen, and do not ask only those who neglect their duty to pay the bills on time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144731	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144732	This will then be the second time today that I have to say to Mr Tugendhat. Orla Sea: I promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144740	Does the questioner have any further information?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144740-2	No, I just want to sign off on the fact that the Minister seems to have a reasonable attitude to the question. I think the solution to this is actually far more important than we have in everyday life in this house on our retina. It means a great deal to a small company that you experience fair and reasonable both ways, and this certainly helps to destroy that. That is why I think the Minister's approach is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144810	Perhaps the Minister will sign for this gesture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144814	I'd like to sign for that. I think it is a good thing that although we can have many discussions about the size of the public sector and how it should be organised, we certainly agree that the public sector must of course always behave properly towards both citizens and businesses, and that is what is at the heart of the question that has been raised here today. So thank you for the opportunity to raise this issue, we will follow up on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144835	So we're done with Mr. Orla Have in this round. We're keeping the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior on the line, and that's Mr. Knox. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democrat, who is given the floor to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144844	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for a municipality, by means of a private actor, to carry out a transfer of a citizen who is so hampered that he cannot use public transport to a small, remote village in another municipality, including offering extensive mobility aid and accompanying the citizen to the employment centre of the municipality of relocation, knowing that the citizen has no connection with the transferred municipality, as is the case with Greve Municipality, as mentioned in TV East on Monday 21 January?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144912	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130144914	Thank you for a very specific question. Maybe I'll start up in a slightly bigger perspective, if you'll excuse me. One might say that the background to the question is, of course, an issue that we have discussed on several occasions in the Folketing, namely the question of what can be called social exports of vulnerable citizens, and moving aid and the like. in this context. I would say that I believe that the municipalities must not deliberately shift their tasks to other municipalities by actively and systematically encouraging citizens to move to another municipality. The municipalities have a responsibility to carry out their tasks properly. That is why we have taken the problem seriously. In November, the government concluded an agreement with the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party to deal with the problem of moving aid. The agreement means that in future it will be the municipality to which the citizen moves from the Government in April to submit a bill, so that the change that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament is behind can enter into force per month. July 1st this year. Then I have to say that I expect all municipalities to undertake to solve the tasks associated with the socially disadvantaged citizens who may live in the municipality in a proper way and that it is both unsympathetic and antisocial if some municipalities seek to shift their tasks to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145041	I would like to thank the Minister for the good answer. I think this matter is extremely worrying because time and again we find that relatively prosperous municipalities are using harsher and harsher methods to push socially vulnerable citizens out of their municipality with end-station sites such as Lolland or other municipalities that are already experiencing difficulties. We had a case in Glostrup Municipality in the autumn, where a social committee chairman had the double role of sitting in Glostrup Municipality, where people were made to move to Lolland, and at the same time he rented housing on Lolland to the socially vulnerable. It's easy to create a business with such a double role. And now we can also see it in Greve Municipality, where you have hired a private company to help the municipality transport the citizen down to a job center and a residence in a remote village • a citizen who really can't move and can't use public transport, and there are 14 km to the nearest merchant. This creates what we are fighting in many other contexts: local communities where there are not so many working parents to look up to; it creates communities where social problems are brought together and where it becomes more difficult for the municipality to afford proper day care institutions and primary schools; but it also creates a situation where children who may have socially exposed parents who may never have been to work grow up and cannot reflect themselves in some parents who have been in work. And we are fighting this in the context of the parallel debate on society, where we say that it is not possible to have it in neighborhoods, and we are trying to create mixed school districts where the bank manager's son is in class with the cleaning lady's daughter. Nevertheless, we still see municipalities which use these methods and which in some way still hold on to pushing citizens from one municipality to another. And one of the things I've noticed about this case is this hiring private mentors. And there I just want to hear from the Minister whether, in the context of this question, the Minister will make a comment on how you look at this, about hiring private mentors to help actually push the socially vulnerable out of the municipality and over to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145256	Because of my ministerial duties, I find it extremely difficult to enter into the specific case which is the basis for the discussion. I hope there is an understanding of that. In relation to the question of social exports, I hope that my position is very well known, because it is very clear. We have also sometimes discussed in various parliamentary committees that I am opposed to the municipalities making social exports, as I also just explained here. I hope that the agreement reached by the government with the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party will put an end to social exports. It is a little difficult to know in advance, since this is a matter which has happened before the new rules come into force. However, I welcome the fact that the mayor of one of the municipalities involved, the mayor of Lolland, has welcomed the agreement we have reached together. So I certainly hope that we will resolve these problems in the future. I fully agree with the questioner's view that it is important that children have some to look up to and can see that money is not something that comes from the municipality, but something that comes from people going to work. It also means what kind of life it is and what kind of life the children in question may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145408-2	Then I would like to thank the Minister very much for the good answer. I also share the Minister's view that this is something on which we have a broad consensus. And I would urge municipal politicians, as well as civil servants who may have considered using such methods at a moment of weakness, to see the Minister's answer so that there is a hundred per cent clarity that it is not something that is accepted either by the Folketing or the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145435	Thank you. There's nothing else. Then we say thank you to the questioner, sir. Kaare Dybvad, and we thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Then we will replace them, because now it is a question for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, and it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democrat, who is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145453	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145455	Does the Minister agree that it is highly unsatisfactory that the heat price increases partly by up to 50%? for the citizens of Viborg, on the one hand, that collections have been issued at illegal short notice?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145508	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145511	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted for her question. I think it is really a pity to hear that the heat customers in Viborg will experience huge price increases. I understand from the article that the questioner refers to the fact that the increase is due to the end of the basic amount. The basic amount came to an end as planned by the end of 2018. The EU's State aid rules mean that the aid can no longer be extended. We discussed this in the conciliation group at the latest in connection with the energy agreement, in which the Social Democratic Party was also involved. This is a matter that I take very seriously and therefore it has been very important for me to ensure good framework conditions so that the works themselves have the opportunity to reduce prices. The government, together with the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties with the energy agreement last year, has significantly reduced the electricity tax. In addition, the production bonds as agreed have been abolished in smaller areas from 1 January 2019. The Government's ambition is that production bonds should also be abolished for the larger plants. Some heating plants will find it difficult to keep the heat prices down even with the improved framework conditions. With the Energy Agreement, therefore, the government and the rest of the conciliation circle agreed to allocate a total pool of 540 million. kr. It is precisely for the basic works and consumers who are affected. With regard to the short warning of price increases in Viborg, I agree that this is unsatisfactory. It is important that heat consumers have certainty about the size of their heating bill. It is not okay that such large price increases come as a surprise. I would therefore call on the heating companies to follow the practice laid down by the Supply Agency. This is neither a good cause for heat consumers nor Viborg District Heating. On the other hand, I am pleased to hear that a temporary solution to the problem has been found in Viborg, where Viborg District Heat pays back the illegally announced part of the heating bill to consumers as early as 1 February 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145700	Thank you for your answer. In Viborg, the cancellation of subsidies for electricity generation has contributed to an increase in the district heating price per year. 01.01.2019 approx. 78% in relation to the district heating price 01.01.2018, well distributed over two price increases, so it apparently should not look so violent, and that is why I have mentioned the figure 50 per cent. in the main question to the Minister. But this is a very sharp rise in prices. As you know, the warning was not legal, and it has, of course, been a great burden for families, the elderly and the single to suddenly have to find so much extra money so quickly. The district heating authority has now, as the minister says, had to crawl to the cross and return the amounts illegally collected until the notice has been complied with. It may seem molbo-like and bureaucratic, but the law must be observed, and the fault lies solely with the board of district heating plants. But now to the next, and that is, why is this happening? It is true that this is justified by the removal of the basic amount, but I also believe that there are other things, because according to the Act on Heat Supply, the cheapest of the following two prices must be paid for the heat: either the cost-related price or the substitute price. Can the Minister tell us how the cancellation of the grant for electricity generation at cogeneration plants can lead to rising prices for district heating?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145838	Thank you for that to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. It is, after all, a subsidy for electricity generation that will lapse. This is something the works have known since 2004-05, and it is also the case that the European Union has said that, from 1 January 2019, the bulk of the basic amount must no longer be paid, and then there will be a list of the rest, the last 20%, from 1 January 2020. It is clear that there will then be an overturning of the costs of the heat price in those circumstances where the plants have not taken due account of the fact that this subsidy will eventually lapse. As regards the second part of the issue of Viborg District Heating and what to pay for, there has been a discussion, and I remember from the time before I became a minister that it has been discussed several times. I am not fully aware of this in detail and, in order to give a full answer to that question, I would offer that we send a written reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130145940	Thank you. I would just like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that there are a number of works in Central and West Jutland which have been unable to implement other methods, if I may say so, because they have been bound by a gas agreement. I think that should be included in this context, so that we do not stand here and hang the works out for lack of due diligence. But I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion on cross-subsidisation. It is evidently much used in the supply sector and this means that other consumers are helping to pay for the deficits of the companies concerned. What is the Minister's position on this? And should not all companies be separate from production?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150032	In principle, I agree with the latter, but I would also like to say, in relation to the whole discussion, that the Danish Energy Agency has set up a travel team to advise the works on how to organise the production in the best possible way and to take as much account as possible of ensuring as low heating prices as possible. In addition, together with the author's party, the Social Democratic Party, we have also set aside a pool of 540 million. kr. to deal with the consequences of the end of the basic amount. In that money lies both the possibility of a handheld effort, which we are currently negotiating with the author's party, and also the conversion to other forms of warmth there may be different actions depending on local conditions. And so it is that 500 district heating plants per year. 1 January will no longer have to produce both electricity and heat simultaneously. The group does not belong to Viborg District Heating because the production in Viborg is larger. But it is the government's intention and I also think it is the author's intention that we should at least look at the possibilities that even more works should no longer be tied to both electricity and district heating.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150144	Thank you. Then it's the questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150147	Without separate production accounts and known distribution keys, it is absolutely impossible to determine whether district heating consumers in Viborg pay subsidies for electricity generation and thus for Energi Viborg Strøm A/S and Midtjysk Elhandel A/S. Schedules for the notification of prices etc. are similar, regardless of whether they are district heating companies with clean heat production, co-production, etc. The tables thus provide for checks to be made on the reasonable distribution of costs between electricity and heat. Can the Minister explain why the Agency's notification forms are not separate from production so that cross-subsidisation could be discovered and prevented?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150237	I think it's on the verge of being a consultation issue. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150240	Thank you for the question. As the President-in-Office says, I believe that this issue is on the verge of my opportunity to prepare myself, as I have not just had a look at the forms that Viborg District Heat has to fill in for the Supply Authority. On the whole, however, I believe that there must be transparency in this, so that, as a heating consumer, you can see what you pay for and what you get, that is what is, like, the crucial thing in this case and that district heating consumers must, of course, pay for the part that concerns the production of district heating. At least that is my starting point. However, I would like to offer Mrs Karin Gaardsted that we can send a note on what sort of rules apply to the works, so that we ensure that there are no misunderstandings and that the rules are complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150326	Thank you to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and that is what Mr. Jan Johansen, the Social Democrat, who is given the floor to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150340	Thank you. Will the Minister explain why he will not allow the cycle race PostNord Denmark Round to run over the Storebælt Bridge when it is a national event and it will only take a few hours to ride over the Storebælt Bridge and will cause very little inconvenience to the traffic, and when the Minister's refusal now has the consequence that PostNord Denmark Round bikes completely bypass Funen, because Funen is apparently not big enough to ride around Funen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150419	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150420	Thank you for the question. Of course, I am happy to justify my decision. The reason for the decision is that as a minister responsible for State infrastructure, I will ensure the accessibility of East-West Denmark and West Denmark. The Storebælt link binds the parts of the country together and is, in reality, the only way for many citizens to travel between Funen and Sjælland. The Storebælt link is therefore critical infrastructure. Sund & Bælt has informed that on the scheduled day of August 2019 from kl. 1 p.m. to 1 p.m. 14.00 is expected to pass around 1,440 vehicles in eastbound direction on the bridge. It is therefore a busy day with some special international holiday traffic. With the expected traffic load on the day, there is a risk that traffic will become so close that it will come to a halt with significantly greater delays. Historically, it has been coincidences that have determined whether things are going well or whether traffic problems arise. We saw this on the Storebælt Bridge in 2012 and 2014 as well as at Lillebælt Halvmarathon in May 2017, where there were time-long cows. I do not think that we can be familiar with the many drivers who will cross the Storebælt Bridge. Therefore, I do not believe that the Storebælt link should be a stage in the cycle race PostNord Denmark Rundt. I am surprised, however, that the questioner believes that my decision to keep the Storebælt link free of cycling has the direct consequence that there can be no cycling on Funen. Now I do not want to be wise about planning sports events, but in the best of my knowledge it should be possible to plan a stage on Funen without necessarily crossing the Storebælt link.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150617	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. I agree, of course, with the Minister that it should bother as little as possible. I would also like to make it clear that when, for example, there is a situation in which there is a difference between the two. must be a national sporting event that affects the whole of Denmark, one must look at it differently than if it is just a club or something when it will close a bridge. I do not understand, however, that one cannot in any way be open to say to the organisers that there are certain times when one cannot close it, but that there are other times when one would like to grant a permit for a few hours, because there is very little traffic, so it is possible to do so in association, i.e. where one is least bothering the traffic, but where we can organise a national sporting event across the bridge, which we are so proud of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150715	After all, I have received an application for exemption one day in August between 8 a.m. 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. 2:00 p.m. I've dealt with that application. And there is a lot of traffic at that time, and therefore there is potentially a lot of traffic that has to be queued if it is that it is one of the days when problems arise that have previously occurred when you have wanted to cross the Storebælt Bridge in connection with exercise. The Great Belt Bridge is the only place in Denmark where you can cross the water by road and get from Funen to Sjælland, from west to east or from east to west. It's the only place. There are incredibly many other places in Denmark where you can arrange bike races without having to do it the only place where there is a road so you can get from east to west and from west to east.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150814	Will the Minister then try to consider, if some rules are imposed on such national sport, to say that if they apply to join in using the bridge 1 hour or 2 it is the time that will be counted in the decision whether they can be allowed to do so. Is the Minister open to the possibility of using it if it bothers the least possible, and that is for a very short time, so that the organisers have to adjust to traffic? In this way they can also use the bridge we are so proud to show off for national sport, and then we can get some events going, without causing much and at least the least of the inconvenience to traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130150900	Danish society has spent many, many billions of dollars on the fact that it should no longer be necessary to take the ferry when going from Funen to Sjælland, but that you can instead drive on a fixed connection. The fixed link is made for the sake of road users going from east to west. We have not spent all the billions of dollars in order to arrange exercise on the bridge. Therefore, I think it is a priority that people should be able to travel in the country when they are going to important chores, and this is a priority than that there should be a gym right there, which is the only place you can use to get from Zealand to Funen. So the starting point is: No, there can't be races on the Storebælt link unless, as we have said, we are dealing with a very big international event such as. a start in Denmark by Tour de France.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151001	I think the Minister should try to look at other countries. Things can be done in a different way because you are creative and think very well. And there is really also understanding that some national things can be held that run across similar places abroad. But I can hear that if it is the Tour de France, it can be done, but if it is another national sport that covers the country, such as the Tour de France. PostNord Denmark Round, then it cannot be done. So the Minister will not give an undertaking that, if the organisers fully adjust, they will also be able to see that this can be done without disturbing traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151046	Then it's the minister for the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151047	I don't know if sir. Jan Johansen has completely forgotten the problems that were in 2012 and 2014 when drivers were queued for hours on both sides and on the other side of the Storebælt link, because there was a run on the bridge, so that the bridge could not serve its real purpose, namely to make sure that people could come from east to west. I don't know if sir. Jan Johansen himself has ever sat in such a queue where one has helped finance that a fixed connection was built in Denmark, but it is completely stuffed and blocked because some have decided that it is important to keep a exercise race. When you sit in a queue like this, which I have not tried, but others do, you find it difficult to understand the decision that it is more important that there is exercise just the only place where you can get from Funen to Zealand than that you can drive there as a traffic operator. Imagine if you're going to visit your mother at the hospital, which is in serious illness and may have to die; think if you're going to a funeral; think if you're going to an important job interview; think if you're going to a plane on an important journey, and that's not possible because Mr. Jan Johansen has decided that the only place you can get from Funen to Zealand should be a exercise race. I don't want to take responsibility for that decision. Sir, I'm afraid so. Jan Johansen will if he one day becomes Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151212	In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Jan Johansen and I would like to thank the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. There is one further question for this minister, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151225	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister consider it appropriate for the many West and South Zealanders who commute every day to the capital and East Zealand to be separated from the capital's transport company, including whether the Minister considers it appropriate to draw the border between the two new transport companies across the East Railway, which will thus be divided between the two companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151248	Thank you. Sir. Kaare Dybvad asks two questions. The first is about commuters between the metropolitan area's new transport company HOT and the rest of Zealand. In no way do I expect commuting opportunities between HOT and the rest of Zealand to deteriorate compared to today. In Jutland there are also a number of public buses that cross traffic company boundaries. There are even citizens commuting to the capital from both Funen and Jutland. With HOT in the metropolitan area, the 11 other municipalities in Zealand will be able to organise public transport on the basis of the needs they have. An independent transport company is set up here in line with what it is like in the rest of the country. Moreover, I imagine that this transport company will be able to purchase services from HOT if they consider it appropriate. On the second question, which concerns the Eastern railway, it is true that, as we propose, the border between HOT and the other transport company crosses the East railway. But this does not necessarily mean that the Eastern railway must be divided. Today, the current transport company, Movia, owns a relatively large share of the private railway infrastructure throughout Zealand. Exactly how private ownership of Sjælland is to be organised in the future needs to be clarified in the further work. One possibility is that HOT will take over the entire part of Movia's ownership of the private railways on Zealand. Another possibility could be that the new transport company on Zealand will also take over a share. It must be carefully considered. In connection with the launch of the government's proposal on HOT, I also wrote to the President of Movia and indicated that I would like to see that among other things. Movia provides input to the Ministry's further work on the precise form to lead to a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151446	I must apologise to the Minister for coming from Jutland and probably never tried to commute between two tariff zones such as those which are now to be set up. I myself have for many years commuted between the old West Zealand Transport Company and the Capital Region Transport Company, and I have seen many times that older ladies and also younger people have tried to buy a valid travel home, but have been charged a check-in fee between Tølløse and Hvalsø stations, where the border was between the two transport companies, because you had valid travel home to one transport company and valid travel home to the other transport company, but therefore an additional ticket was required between the transport companies, so that you would have to have travel home to three different agencies to get from Tøløse Station to Hvalsø Station. This was also the case until a few years ago. There was a system in place, for example. with school classes had to buy three different pieces of travel home to get from Holbæk to Copenhagen. And then, like the then Left Government, DSB's leadership said that it was now time for this system to be abolished because it was inappropriate. It didn't make sense for people to buy three pieces of travel home to get from Holbæk to Copenhagen. However, I understand that the government is now going to reinstate a scheme which has been criticized over all the years, where three pieces of travel home have to be bought instead of the present one piece of travel home to come from Holbæk to Copenhagen with a school class, and that once again, as commuters between West Zealand and Copenhagen, you have to experience that older ladies who have tried to live up to the rules that apply in public transport have to have set control fees, because they are not aware of what is hard to be aware of, namely that you have to have three different travel homes to get from Holbæk to Copenhagen. Does the Minister really think it makes sense to create such a complex system that we have already been proved not to work on several occasions and which, for the same reason, the Left Government abolished two years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151644	Not only do I think I know that we are not going to create such a complicated system as Mr. Kaare Dybvad here postulates. Time is different. We have digital payment information, we have digital ticket purchase systems, we have digital forms of cooperation across traffic companies, so that account of the past on Zealand can't really be used for anything today. I know only one thing on top of that, and it is that the desire to organise traffic in this way comes from a genuinely felt point of view that it should not be Copenhagen that should decide, for example, whether there should be a bus route between Kalundborg and Ringsted or between Kalundborg and Slagelse or between Slagelse and Næstved. I think it is best to make such decisions on Zealand, where you are also affected by such decisions. I fear that if such decisions are taken in a body in which Copenhagen dominates, one will feel alienated by the decisions that are taken and that decisions are taken over one's head because Copenhagen dominates in a company. So my wish is for decisions to be made locally, and that's what this form of organization comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151807	Well, if that is what the government wants, then we can not close down the regions where decisions are being taken today. After all, decisions are taken locally by local Zealand politicians who decide and prioritise which bus lines are to be closed down: Should the Tølløsbane be closed down? Is the bus line to Skælskør to be shut down? What's going to be shut down? After all, it is local people who have a democratic mandate who decide it. So it was very easy if that's what you wanted to do. Then you could just not close down the regions. But I have to ask: does the Minister agree with the Left Mayor of Ringsted who says that when you do something in the government called HOT, Ringsted must necessarily be NOT?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151842	No. I agree that this is a fun word game, as Mr. Kaare Dybvad here conveys, but I do not agree that it has any substance, that because you are not called HOT, you are NOT. Where would that come from? In other words, the regions must be closed down because they have too little a function in Danish society to justify themselves. It's part of government policy. We say: then the municipalities will get the money that the regions received in the past, which means that in this case the municipalities of Zealand will get the money that the region received in the past and will be able to spend that money on planning regional traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151921	The questioner, last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151922	Does the Minister accept the criticism that has already been raised from the Municipality of Norddjurs, namely that when you make the model presented by the government, it will be so that municipalities that are thinner populated will have less money in the new transport company? This means that the new transport company which will be set up for West Zealand, South Zealand and Lolland-Falster will have less money today to run buses than they had before, because in the model one wants to make, in other words, the sparsely populated areas will be rewarded more and the densely populated areas more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130151957	Today it is the case that the municipalities receive money over the block subsidy for their municipal traffic, and that is what they get compared to how many inhabitants they have. This is already the case today and will continue to be the case in the future. It wasn't something like that, sir. Kaare Dybvad's own party changed while you were in government and had the transport minister's post, because you probably thought it was a good idea that it was that way. You get per. citizen you have. And that means there's no change here. The only change is that the money that the region received in the past is now allocated to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152029	We are therefore grateful to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and Mr. Kaare Dybvad, as we move on to a question to the Minister for Defence. And that's by Mr. Hawkins. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152040	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152041	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister agree with former General Peter Bartram when he writes that NATO is best at safeguarding Denmark's security and that parallel military structures should not be built, as would be the case with an EU army?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152058	NATO is the cornerstone of Denmark's defence and security policy. It is well documented in the government base, in the defence settlement we concluded last year, and in the foreign and security policy strategy. That is why I fully agree with Peter Bartram's statement that we must avoid building parallel structures in NATO and the European Union. The idea of a more effective defence policy Europe is more relevant than it has been for many years. It is basically good that the European Union contributes more to Europe's security. I do not share the objective of an EU army, and I have clearly said this publicly and to a number of EU colleagues, nor do any concrete initiatives in the European Union point to the development of defence cooperation leading to the EU replacing NATO. I don't see that. It is a question of strengthening the EU's capacity to take greater care of Europe's own security in full cooperation with NATO, and the government is therefore pleased that the EU and NATO are increasingly cooperating on European security. After all, the European Union can do something that NATO cannot and that we need in Europe if we are to be able to deal with the current threats that NATO is not dealing with directly. Set examples are dealing with the challenges posed by refugee flows, terrorism and weak states in North Africa. Here the European Union can play a special role. In addition to this, the EU's special competence in stabilising areas in crisis, training efforts and building civil society with police and courts. In the field of defence research and industrial policy, closer cooperation within the European Union can lead to European NATO members strengthening their military capabilities and, of course, it will also benefit NATO. That is why I believe that in a large number of these areas, the European Union really provides added value for security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152328	I am not sure that I share that view with the Minister for Defence, but leave it at that. By the way, I also think I read Peter Bartram's statements a little differently than the Secretary of Defense reads them. So what Peter Bartram writes here in his Twitter announcements on January 6 is • and I quote: "NATO is best at safeguarding our security. Should EUR countries want a stronger EUR profile it can easily be practiced under the auspices of NATO. After all, the EUR countries can only put forces in NATO's hands with primary EUR interest. We must not build parallel structures in this field. There are some abbreviations. It's in Twitter when you write like that. But I think I understand Peter Bartram there that Peter Bartram warns a little about building a separate EU capability and a separate EU regime within Europe in competition with NATO. The reason why I bring it up is that no matter how you turn it or how you turn it, it seems that somebody means it. So, Emmanuel Macron, the French President, a not insignificant figure, was told to a radio programme that he wanted a true European army. And besides wanting a true European army, this army should also be aimed at China, Russia and the United States. I don't really know why he got the United States into that equation, but the good president did, and on 14 November Angela Merkel followed it up with the wish that we should have a true European army again. I wonder if what Peter Bartram is saying here is a warning to these people, the French President and the German President, not insignificant figures in Europe, that we should go that way. The question is again: how on earth does the Minister of Defence intend to stop it when two large, significant countries of the European Union so unequivocally hit the tone of a common European army?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152533	Well, I'd like to say that there's a lot of talk about this, and some of it's such a fantasy, and that's some kind of woodoo talk about a European army. I do not think anyone imagines that the French President Macron will come and hand over the keys to the French nuclear weapon to an office in Brussels and then say, "Here you go, now it's yours." Nor can I imagine the German Chancellor coming to tell an office in Brussels: now you have taken command of the German army. So there's a lot of talk, and I understand Kenneth Kristensen Berth's interest in this, because it's about making a scare picture of this European army. But I just have to stick to the fact that what Denmark's policy is about is that our security is guaranteed by NATO and that the cornerstone of that defence is the United States, which in the end is the ones who, by virtue of the nuclear umbrella, provide that security. So there is no doubt that this is the way things are. That is also how I hear all NATO countries say, that it is not a parallel structure; we should not copy NATO. But I just have to stick to the fact that the European Union can do something that NATO cannot do. NATO is quite good on the battlefield to defeat an enemy, but NATO is not good at stabilising. If we think of Mosul or Raqqa when those cities have been completely destroyed, then the European Union is the organisation that can rebuild a civil society, build a police force, secure border controls, etc. So we should not, I think, look away from the fact that the European Union will be a super complement to NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152734	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152734-2	Now the Minister for Defence says that this is the expression of woodoo, and then I am thinking of George Bush, who was told in 1979 about his later employer Ronald Reagan's economic policy that it was an expression of the Woodoo economy. After all, we should not pre-discount that the Minister for Defence will defend what he has previously called woodoo, but I have to say that it is not quite meaningless that Macron and Merkel both express that love for the European Union and for an EU army. Is it the view of the Secretary of Defense that the EU army should then enter Mosul and Raqqa?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152813	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152814	I know that Kenneth Kristensen Berth would like to draw a frightening picture of the European Union. But, in fact, the European Union and NATO complement each other very, very well. In order to take one of the practical aspects of cooperation, I can mention the need to ensure a greater degree of mobility in Europe so that troops do not hang on to border controls. There are examples, if I recall correctly, of Americans who have been hanging 14 days in border controls between Romania and Bulgaria, etc., and it is clear that in crisis situations we need to have clear rules on how to move forward. These are some of the things we work with all the time. But the European Union is really, really good in the areas of rebuilding a civil society in which NATO does not have the same competence. And that is why: one thing is that you can defeat an enemy, and NATO can do that, and I promise you something else, is that there are other things that go with it, because when you have defeated an enemy, there is a civil society that needs to be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152934	Then it's the questioner, last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130152935	I just think that we should remember the backdrop of this whole debate on the European Union. That is what Angela Merkel was told on top of the election of the current US President, namely that the time was now when the United States could no longer be trusted. And it is obvious, if that is the reason for it, that that EU army should then be able to do something more than just rebuild Mosul and Raqqa. It must also be able to defend Europe, it must also be able to intervene in third countries, and is it then a role that the Minister of Defence sees for the European Union that the European Union must go out and carry out that task in reality and bring peace to Syria or act in Africa in former French colonies? Is that where we're going?
ParlaMint-DK_20190130153021	Then it's the minister, the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130153022	After all, we need to create stability and try to restore normality in societies that have collapsed. When we participate in those places, it's to fight terrorist movements. And that is not because, in the context of NATO or coalition, we believe that when we have deprived ISIL or the Taliban of control over a particular geographical area, we have won. Then the fights change character. So what is crucial is that some things go together: the military to fight it down and the EU to rebuild. And I cannot understand for my death that there should be a contradiction in it unless one's argument is constantly driven by the fact that the European Union is the Devil itself and that no matter what the European Union is doing, it is bullshit, sorry for the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130153122	With that, we thank the Secretary of Defense, and thank him. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190130153134	Although we have guests in the gallery, there is still nothing left to do in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 31 January 2019 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
