ParlaMint-DK_20191008130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Denni Flydtkjær (DF), Louise Schack Elholm (V) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Bill no. L 36 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the taxation of profits in the transfer of immovable property and the Business Tax Act. Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 8 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a group of experts in the field of placement). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 9 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the impact of the EU on Danish foreign policy). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that September 2019 was determined that the announcement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, by Royal Resolution of 24 September 2019 it is determined that Law No. On 11 December 2018 on the Social Investment Fund, the Minister for Finance shall transfer it to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen From the Prime Minister I have also received a letter stating that October 2019 was determined that the announcement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 1 October 2019 provides that 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019, 1 October 2019 and 1 October 2019. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130159	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130321	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130338	Thank you. It's a little special to stand here for the very first time. The draft law is based, among other things, on: of the political agreement on veterinary conciliation III of December 2017, concluded between the then government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the SF. The bill is therefore partly an implementation of the initiative in the veterinary conciliation to ensure that the operation of the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority's Medical Register VetStat can be financed by owners of livestock with pigs and cattle registered in the Central Livestock Register. This requires technical change and modernisation, which we are getting started with this proposal. In addition, a number of amendments to the law are being initiated to ensure a broad administration of the law. Among other things, it can be done. emphasising that in future, veterinary students may be able to participate in diagnostics and the treatment of animals at the University of Copenhagen's animal hospitals as part of the programme. Another measure is the supervision of vets employed at the University of Copenhagen Animal Hospitals. They will in future be subject to supervision when treating privately owned animals, so that this corresponds to the supervision that other veterinarians are also subject to. In short, the bill provides for the modernisation and future assurance of the Danish Food Safety Agency's medical records and for some changes to ensure better administration of the law. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130531	Thank you. This bill is, of course, a follow-up to our political agreement on veterinary conciliation, which all parties, as far as I remember, are behind. That is why it is already in place with regard to the details, content and so on, and this has also been well examined by the previous rapporteur. So we can say clearly from the Left that we also, of course, support this bill and can vote in favour of it. It is quite natural to follow up on this, and as it has already been reviewed, there is a need for an update of the systems and also for these provisions to be put in place completely. So, as agreed, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130614	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130620	Thank you for that, President. As has already been said, this bill is part of veterinary conciliation III from December 2017, in which all the parties at the time are involved, so the Danish People's Party can of course support the proposal. Consultation responses have been received from seven consultation parties, and they are generally satisfied with the proposal. Provision is made for veterinary students at the KU to be able to diagnose and treat animals in the university's animal hospitals. It is excellent that students in this way can exercise what they are actually trained for as part of the programme. Provision is also made for the Minister to lay down rules on the study requirements required for the participation of veterinary students in the above. The proposal also provides for the future financing of the operation of the VetStat's medical register through the collection of payments from owners of livestock. It is very good that we have a modernised VetStat so that it will be easier to follow the use of antibiotics and that in future it can be measured at crew level. It was then yours that dealt with the veterinary settlement for the Danish People's Party. That is why it says, among other things: Around VetStat: It is proposed that the legal basis should be established for the operation of the VetStat medical register, after a necessary technical change and modernisation, to be financed by the collection of payments from owners of livestock with cattle or pigs registered in the Central Livestock Register (CHR). ▪ That's what I could get through with, because the presentation was that the upgrade had to be paid by the owners of animal husbandry. And I really do not think that farms should bear the cost of an important tool that we all need. In addition, I agree with the Danish Veterinarian Association, which proposes in the hearing that owners of livestock other than pigs and cattle should contribute to the operating costs in relation to their antibiotic consumption. But it is small things, and we must look at that in the future. However, as I said at the beginning, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. I do not see the rapporteur for the Radical Left, so I move on. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008130918	Thank you very much for the floor. I really think that it has been very well explained by the previous rapporteurs. This is subject to agreement by veterinary conciliation III, and in the SF we generally welcome the parts of the proposal, namely that the minister among others. suggests that we now have the possibility that VetStat will in future be partly financed with payments from owners of livestock with pigs and cattle. We also welcome the fact that it is dependent on the use of antibiotics, and we also have a hope that it might cause the owners of these livestock to turn down the use of antibiotics a little. But we'll see how it goes. Of course, we are also very positive about the fact that legislation now makes it clear that students at the University's Animal Hospital at the University of Copenhagen can come out and do diagnostics and perform certain treatments, as formulated in the bill. We have noted the wish of the Danish Veterinarian Association to change the wording, and we really think that we would like to commend the Minister for his way of changing the wording and having it done specifically what kind of treatments they are allowed to do. So all in all, there is a positive attitude from the SF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131050	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131102	Thank you. For Enhedslisten, it is important that we have the use of antibiotics reduced, and that is why we think it is a great advantage to create a system here where it is not just a registration at the individual CHR level, but that data can be obtained at crew level. If there is a farmer who has problems in some of his stables, it does allow for a special focus on how to solve the problems there; that data is used to bring down the use of antibiotics. We think that is the most important thing in it. We also think it is important that it is acquired itself, which pays for the operation of this medical register. So on that basis, Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Conservative People's Party. Welcome to sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131155	Thank you for that, President. I will be very brief: this bill has been tabled on the basis of the political agreement we reached, which is provided for in a conciliation from 2018-2021. What I think is the most important thing in this is that in relation to the Danish Food Authority and the registration of it here in VetStatat we get it updated and that we get it future-proof, and that we can now go down and look at the level of the crew, what is of the consumption of medicine, and thus be much sharper on how the drug consumption develops on the different herds, so that we can use as little medicine as possible in the Danish food production. So the Conservative People's Party supports L 28.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131245	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here too, there is no wish for short remarks, so we are going to continue in the rapporteur's line. And now it is the alternative rapporteur. Mrs Susanne Zimmer has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131307	Thank you for the floor. In the alternative, we were involved in introducing this proposal, which is why we naturally support its implementation. And I think it is reasonable that the cost of an extra visit due to non-compliance should be borne by the farmer. At the same time, of course, we also hope that this will lead to a reduction in the use of antibiotics by showing crews where consumption is highest. It is also very nice that the University of Copenhagen and the Veterinary Health Council can carry out that students are allowed to participate in the diagnosis and treatment of animals at the University Hospital. The Danish Veterinarian Association is also satisfied because they can now get students to participate in certain types of veterinary treatment. And we can only be happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and I shall give the floor to the new citizens. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131415	Thank you. This is the first time I have to speak from this platform, and it is a very great honour to me. Regarding the bill: New citizens are, of course, in favour of a well-functioning medical register, VetStat, but we do not believe that the cost of modernising the system should be borne by agriculture. Agriculture is heavily strained ahead, and it must be possible to find an amount of 3 million. kr. in a total public budget of 1,150 billion. kr. If additional burdens are to be imposed on agriculture, they have to be compensated in other ways. We welcome the other measures in the legislative proposal, including rules for covering extra controls in the event of non-compliance. In the course of the committee's work, however, we would like to see a detailed analysis of exactly what is involved. Similarly, we can support the participation of veterinary students in the treatment of animals at universities' animal hospitals. So, on the basis of the financing model, New Citizens cannot support the bill as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131519	There are no brief comments to be made. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and I would like to give the floor to Mr Lalor. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131527	Thank you for that, President. The Liberal Alliance, with the same arguments that have been used by the other parties here from the platform, can support the bill. I'd like to say to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens, that the fact that a profession itself finances the costs that the industry's operation entails for the public is actually a perfectly normal thing, and I also think a real thing, because it actually helps to strengthen the industry that there is a control of medicine, in this case. Therefore, it is also reasonable that the profession should pay the costs it imposes on Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131608	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief comments have been requested, and I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. Welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131621	Thank you for that and, first of all, congratulations to all the new rapporteurs who have been on the platform for the first time. I thought that went well. Then we have to hope that things are going just as well for the new minister. But it seems that we can find a broad majority for this bill, and there is nothing strange about that, because, as has been said several times, it is part of the agreement on veterinary conciliation III that we are implementing here. So I am not going to go into this either, since the content of the draft law has been explained, but perhaps just touch on one question put by the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, Mrs Lise Bech, who asked why it is only owners of pigs and cattle who have to pay for the operation of the new VetStat, when the consumption of medicines for other species is also recorded in the register. It is true that it was decided, when this settlement was made, that payment should be made proportionately on the basis of the antibiotic consumption of the farm. And since the use of antibiotics in sheep and goats farms and these are the ones that are like excluded from this is a really, really small consumption corresponding to, I can see here, 0.01 per cent. of registered consumption, it was agreed that they should be exempted from payment because it was just before that the administrative costs of recovery would be higher than the actual payment. So that is the reason for the model chosen for the event. But apart from that, of course, I look forward to further questions being dealt with in committee, and I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131827	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131856	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008131905	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is one of the world's most digitized countries. Both citizens and companies use digital tools every day. They digitally solve tasks they develop and make up new ideas digitally. We communicate digitally, and we've actually gotten really good at it. This means that Denmark has an efficient labour market with competitive companies and employees who are familiar with the digital world. It is an integral part of the daily life of the vast majority of Danes. This also applies to agriculture, which, as modern companies, uses digital solutions and considers them to be an entirely natural part of running an efficient and competitive business. Cute paper forms, large file folders and correspondence with the authorities... with stamps... looks smaller and smaller to be part of the future. Fortunately, most people do not benefit from the old-fashioned form of communication. In short, this is a thing of the past. I am therefore also very confident that we have a high-tech agricultural industry that is well placed on the digital wave, and that is why it is also a profession that is well equipped to go the last piece of the digital path. The bill here is a natural part of the digitisation movement that is underway throughout society, where we are constantly thinking in new and smarter solutions that give more time, more profits to citizens and businesses and, for that matter, also authorities. With the ability to make digital communication mandatory for matters covered by the Agricultural Support Act, we can streamline communication even more and make it more effective for the benefit of both citizens and industry. The less time spent on bureaucracy and paper handling, the more resources are available for the core task. At the same time, it must always be a goal to limit the use of paper and large physical files that strain the climate and our environment. We've come a long way, but we can still get better. Good and user-friendly digital tools are the way to fewer physical documents, and on this basis the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132137	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132150	Thank you. I can also say that we in the Left support and vote in favour of this bill, which has been well examined by the previous rapporteur. It is absolutely true that more and more digital communication is being transferred, and it is important to follow it up. And, as we can see, even in relation to satellite-based controls, the more we are developing in this direction. Then I have a small question, including to the Minister for Food, that if we are now, as a natural part, to say, in favour and support of getting as much as possible on digital communication, then it is also important that we can say that there is a gap, so to speak, in terms of faster broadband, and that there are not too many mobile gaps. And there you can look a little backwards and see that we got there on the basis of the Left and the Blue Camp and also by a broad majority in the Folketing, as I remember it, set aside this broadband pool. And now I think we can see over the last few days here that such little uncertainty has arisen as to whether that broadband pool is allowed to continue. At any rate, I can say, from Langeland and from some farmers who have contacted me along the way, that they would very much like to serve these new opportunities too, because that is the easiest way to do it. But it just requires that there's a hole in it. So they sometimes sit back a little bit, and they have called me now in connection with the government's presentation of the Finance Act and said that they have heard that there had, like, been no room for the broadband pool. So I would like to ask the Minister for Food to address it straight away, and I hope then that the Minister for Food can confirm that it was simply a misunderstanding about the broadband pool and that it should, of course, continue. 'Cause we're gonna have to get through all over Langeland, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132341	Thank you, President. It doesn't take that long to take these bills, because a lot of this is actually something we had going on before the election came. As some have said, this bill amends the agricultural support law, which concerns mandatory digital communication, and that is an expression of the fact that we must all be part of the digital age. Fortunately, a lot of people are already on the wagon. In 2019 the Danish Agriculture Authority introduced satellite-based control, and it is very good that we can replace part of the physical control of satellite-based control in the future. So I'm thinking, can we save something there if they don't have to get out physically? The draft law therefore also requires farms to use certain IT systems, apps and the like, and this makes very good sense. All we have to do is remember that those we demand of older farmers in many cases will have good and reasonable time to implement it. Then I also have a small note, namely that I would very much like to ask the Minister to ensure that these farmers can communicate with the outside world at all, and that is, of course, the broadband pool I am thinking of. I think it's catastrophic if it gets taken off. But beyond that, the Danish People's Party can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132507	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132516	Thank you. I should just like to start by apologising for not taking part in the first item. I'm afraid I didn't make it. We support this bill, and we do so with this proposal, and I really do not need to put any more words into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132533	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132543	Thank you for the floor. This is probably gonna be more fun and more fun, the more times you do it. We in the SF also support this proposal. We have taken note of some of the concerns raised in the hearing, which have also been addressed here, among others. that we must, of course, make sure that there is a possibility of exemption in exceptional cases and that this thought app complies with the requirements of the data protection regulation. But we also think that the Ministry has answered quite well, so we support that. Then, of course, it is part of a very comprehensive digitisation process in which we must take care of older citizens in particular. We must then find some small shortcuts in the rest of the process to ensure extra thorough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten. I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132652	The Enhedslisten is also in favour of the bill on digitisation. At the same time, we would say that we actually think it is extremely important when making such systems that they are user-friendly, functional and fast. And that these are solutions that the individual farmer can do for himself, so that you do not end up in some systems where you are deeply dependent on some agricultural consultants, because only those who can handle the electronic systems that you need are the ones who can handle them. We think this is important. And I have also noted that there is a possibility that, for a period of time, if there are farmers with digital problems, there can be dispensation. Then I would like to say now that there are several rapporteurs who have said that the broadband pool should not be closed and so on, that it would be a little dangerous if, in relation to the broadband pool, which may be able to support 500 or 1,000 new households per year, we were to sit in here and adopt laws where, for example, we were to support 500 or 1,000 new households per year. is dependent on a little more fiber being rolled out in the countryside, but where it is not at all a solution for the whole country. Then it is really dangerous to make legislation like that. But as political teasing, of course, it is a good thing. So I think it is essential to see it here in the perspective that it is a necessity and that if there are farmers who are not in a good relationship, it may be that you have to go to the local library and get your agricultural support and what else you have to report. So Enhedslisten is in favour of us getting this digitalization. This is important for the development of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132822	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for brief comments from Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132825	Thank you. Well, it's just a short follow-up in relation to the broadband pool. The rapporteur can almost figure that out. I do not want to say that the rapporteur has a smile on his face, but I am a little surprised that Enhedslisten is taking it so nonchalantly. I mean, we are in complete agreement on this, and I have also said on behalf of the Left that we are of course in favour of this bill, but I would just point out that it is necessary to make it quite practical that there is a gap. But Enhedslisten is so relaxed about that. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132854	No, we're not at all relaxed about it. We think it is extremely important that there are good Internet connections in all local areas, and we support the fact that there is a broadband pool. We have also noted that the last four years have indeed been tightened up. After all, there was a single year when there were parts of the City of Copenhagen that received support from this broadband pool. We thought this was a little strange, and we think that it is urban areas which are a little further away from the Copenhagen City Hall Square that should have that support. So I fully share what to say, the concerns that the rapporteur of the Left has raised here, and I think it is more important to support rural areas on Langeland than areas such on the extreme edge of the City of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132934	Against this background, I am glad that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is making such a quick turnaround in the matter, so I am pleased. But then I have to understand it that way too, and it has to be my question that Enhedslisten will be a central part of the forthcoming Finance Act. So can I count on Enhedslisten, with this quick turnaround, to simply put on the table in the Ministry of Finance and say that Enhedslisten will not agree to any finance agreements unless the broadband pool gets back into place?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008132959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133000	Well, Enhedslisten hasn't made a turnaround in that farm case. We support the digitisation of the whole of Denmark, and we do not make the ultimate demands of financial law negotiations. That's the way it is. Not even our most important demands are quite ultimate. If we could have something even better than our best demands, then we are quite open to that being what can get through. So, unfortunately, I must disappoint the rapporteur of the Left. After all, the Left itself must come up with what they think is most important, and if a broadband pool is the most important requirement of the Left for a financial law debate, they must, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133032	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no need for any further brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133039	Thank you. After all, the common public digitalisation strategy is what we have here, and it runs from 2016 to 2020. I would say that when we were just negotiating the broadband pool, I would like to address it in this context too, we were discussing agriculture. It was simply something we were discussing, that is, what it would mean, that broadband would also be provided where the farms are. It's not in Copenhagen, but it's out there where there's a long way between houses. What we need to bear in mind is that we have large companies in agriculture today, and they are enormously dependent on their having a good broadband connection. So I hope that the Minister will take on board what has been said here today in connection with L 29. After all, L 29 can only work, and farmers can only talk digitally with public authorities and the Agricultural Authority if it is the case that they can connect and there is the broadband network very, very important. But the Conservative People's Party supports L 29.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133152	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line and I shall give the floor to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133202	In the alternative, we also support the proposal. Better communication is always good, and in the times we are in, of course, it is digital communication. It makes it easier and faster, and at the same time it is a good follow-up to satellite control that has been set in motion this year. The app is, of course, a cornerstone of it, and we know that apps are good to use, and I welcome the fact that, in the light of the consultations, the Minister has also looked at data protection in this regard. What is really important then is that users are given the opportunity to use the app both by getting help to get started and by being built up user-friendly and that there is also a derogation if you need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line to New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133306	Thank you. New citizens welcome the bill on mandatory digital communication. We can also understand that users, in other words agriculture, look at it positively. We hope, however, that the systems will be thoroughly secured and tested and that they will not be deployed until it is ensured that they operate satisfactorily. We have seen many examples of this with public IT systems before, in other words where they have not been sufficiently tested before use, and this has caused major problems in the affected areas. You can, for example. mention the Health Platform. I can see from the consultation answers that it is also one of the concerns that is in the industry, so I naturally expect that it will be taken care of so that it will work smoothly for everyone, including for people who are not trained in IT systems. Under these conditions, new citizens can agree to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in line is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133409	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill to fully implement digitalisation, including in the field of agriculture. This is both for the benefit of agriculture, which makes it easier to communicate with the public, but also for the benefit of the public, which needs to use less resources to process the various forms and information received. One might then ask: why should it actually be compulsory when it is for the benefit of everyone, because then people can just do it themselves? But it is, of course, as we know, because every time you introduce something new, something new that benefits everyone, there will be a few people who think it is nicest to do things the old way. This would mean sitting and having a parallel administration with employees who sat and took care of papers that came in from some more old-fashioned farmers who do not want digitalisation, and that would simply be too high a cost in relation to the usefulness of it. For the only value is that there are a few people who do not need to jump on the digital transition, although it is beneficial to everyone. So that's why it has to be mandatory.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133517	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We are through the rapporteur's line and so I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133530	Thank you for that and also thank you for the rapporteur's remarks. Here, too, we can see that there is a broad majority in favour of this draft law, and that is also good reason, as several speakers have said, because this proposal introduces something which is of benefit to both users and, of course, to the public. A few questions have been raised which I would naturally like to address. One is, of course, about whether you are even able to use this new technology in the fields, and that is, of course, the prerequisite for that. The first thing to say about it is because it can happen, and you experience it yourself when you keep driving around the country: that there is not enough coverage right in the area where you are. So I just want to say that this app can be, but the starting point is, of course, that we need to have coverage and good mobile coverage across the country. That is also my starting point. That is the prerequisite for being a citizen of Denmark today throughout the country in a sensible way, and of course you can also do business, whether as a farmer or as a trader. Some have then mentioned the broadband pool. This is not my resort; it is the area of the Minister for Climate and Energy. But I can tell you that I have seen that the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Climate and Energy have announced that the scheme is under evaluation, which is being completed. And if that evaluation proves to be positive, the scheme will also continue by 2020 with the 100 million. kr., and I think that's a good starting point. I therefore expect that this process will be dealt with in the future, but, as I said, it is not my area of responsibility. Then it has also been mentioned that it is important for this to be user-friendly, and I also stress that this new technology will be. We're being asked for dispensation. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned that there was a small group that is not taking advantage of the digital opportunities today in relation to the agricultural support area, and that is also true. We have approx. 40,000 users, out of which 1.700 do not use digital opportunities, and it is clear that this will be achieved to a large extent in the future. You do it in other areas, and now you're gonna do it in this area too. But still away, and that is also mentioned by Mr. Of course, Søren Egge Rasmussen has to have an opportunity, because there may be circumstances where it is not possible to use the digital offers, and then there must be a derogation, but it will be very, very few special cases. But there is also a legal basis for this in the law. So thank you for your broad support for the proposal and I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133906	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008133909	Thank you. But we're gonna have to grab the broadband pool one more time. And it's not to tease the Minister about it, because this is seriously serious. That is exactly what the Minister himself says: there must be a gap. And it's fine that the app we're talking about here can remember we can say information or entries and get it pushed through afterwards. But that is not the answer to the whole problem, because there are plenty of other situations where you have reports and various other things and you have to have a direct piercing through. We know this from experience. And that is why, as I also pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, we also started the broadband pool from blue camp, fortunately with broad support. I also remember clearly from the election campaign, where we were all around a lot of different places. Now I understand that perhaps the Minister did not come to Langeland and the South Funen in connection with the election campaign, but I am quite sure that there are also quite a few places in West Jutland where you have these problems. It is fair that it is not the Minister's area, but that it is over in the area of climate, energy and supply. But can I understand the fact that the Minister of Food will now address his colleague and say that it is therefore very necessary that we continue to have this broadband pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134019	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134021	Now I am elected in West Jutland, and I also know how important it is, of course, that you have good broadband coverage and internet coverage throughout the country. I have made that point, and that is also the government's starting point. But if Mr. Erling Bonnesen wants to talk in detail about the broadband pool, so it's not my resort. I just gave mr. Erling Bonnesen the bonus information that I can see that the Minister for Climate, Energy and Energy and the Minister for Finance have said that if this evaluation turns out to be positive and I personally see no more than that it should be with the results I have seen and with the things that have been done in the pool. Of course, I think that must also be reassured by Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134115	Then I will use my second question to get a little closer to it in relation to the Minister for Food's position on this. Because technology is fine, and one can ask back and forth; it is fine with that. But I just need to be more clearly marked by the Minister for Food that the Minister for Food will simply take up his good colleagues and say that everything points to that we believe that this evaluation will be positive. But whatever happens, we need to continue this broadband pool. Is it the view of the Minister for Food that the broadband pool should continue? Because it is simply needed. We need clarification on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134150	Thank you, and then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134152	Well, I don't need to grab anybody. I see a clear statement from the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply and from the Minister for Finance about the broadband pool, and it is very good that it comes from them, because it is their resort area. And it says clearly that we will have a positive evaluation of the scheme, so it will continue in 2020. A meeting on this will also be convened, and Mr. Erling Bonnesen also shows up and expresses his excellent views, which I do not disagree with: that it is important that we have good, solid broadband coverage across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134227	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134253	The debate is open. Welcome to the Social Democrat, sir. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134301	Thank you. We go in here and give food companies better access to additional guidance and expertise where they may need it. They have themselves wanted to be able to obtain the FDA's guidance and draw on their expertise in a number of areas in addition to the guidance already given to companies. That is what we are responding to with this bill. After all, it makes very good sense that the business community can make use of the authorities' expertise when specific needs and challenges arise. Businesses are given the opportunity to obtain additional guidance so that they can adapt and organise themselves in the best possible way within the framework of the law. In this way they can run a more efficient and competitive business. In particular, with regard to guidance in the field of ecology, we as a country have an interest in opening up access to obtained guidance so that businesses in the food industry can seek additional expertise and advice in the transition to more ecology. It is a good step towards even more ecology in the sale and production of food in Denmark, and on that basis the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134412	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line and I would like to give the floor to the Left. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134421	Thank you. Also, in relation to this bill, I can immediately say clearly on the Left side that we support it and vote in favour of it and support it. This is a very good agreement, which is also a follow-up to our agreement on food. And, as the previous speaker has well considered, this is in place and very sensible. So we share the views and there is no need to repeat it. The Left shall vote in favour of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134453	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Lise Bech, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134501	Thank you, President. It's hard to say anything bad about this bill, because it's a wish from the industry itself. In April 2019, the Food Conciliation Committee approved that the fee-paid guidance scheme should also apply in the area of ecology, as it currently applies to food companies. It has also been agreed in the agreement on veterinary conciliation III that a system should be established in the veterinary field so that business and crew owners can obtain guidance from the FDA for a fee, and that is fine, because it is cost-neutral when they pay for it themselves. So the Danish People's Party can of course support the bill so that we can have these changes implemented into the two laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134553	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134559	Thank you for that, and I will be brief again: we also support the bill. We also think it is very good that the Ministry gives the assurance in the consultation note that this is not an excuse for turning down the general guide, in other words a way of milking organic producers, as it were. It is a very good thing that we have that answer and, on that basis, we can also support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134627	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks and we go further in the rapporteur's line to the SF. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134636	Thank you. I'll be brief, too. After all, it is the conciliation group behind food conciliation IV that the SF is involved in, which has approved the extension of the system of requested guidance to organic farming and, in relation to establishing a similar system in the veterinary field, it is a follow-up to veterinary conciliation III that we are also involved in. So the SF also supports this proposal, and I do not need to say any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134702	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there is no wish for short remarks, we go further in the rapporteur's line to the Enhedslisten. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134713	Thank you. From the point of view of Enhedslisten, we are quite comfortable with the fact that private business, farmers, can buy advice from state institutions and not go out to the private market and buy it from expensive consultants. So there is a possibility here that, for example, in connection with the environment, we might be able to do something about it. a check or guidance may conclude an agreement that you buy some state advice. We are comfortable with it if it is the case that each farmer chooses that solution rather than going to private consultants. So we think it's a good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134757	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks and we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Orla Østerby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134759	Thank you. Quite briefly: this is the continuation of food conciliation IV. I think that one of the things that gives us perspective here is that organic farmers are now also being given the opportunity to buy additional guidance from the Danish Food Safety Authority during their inspection visits. But overall we can say that being able to buy expertise from the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority also in the long term means that we are guaranteed a broader and more uniform welfare. At the same time, we also know that when these people are out there, they get advice based on the laws and regulations that exist today. And I think that's gonna be really good. The law here then allows you to request it in these areas, and it supports the Conservative People's Party. We support L 30.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134912	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and we go further in the rapporteur's line to the alternative and to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134915	In the alternative, we support the proposal because we ourselves have been involved in food conciliation IV and veterinary conciliation III, and, moreover, we support everything that supports ecology and conversion to ecology. The system in which ecologists can obtain guidance is quite obvious, and since we know that it will not replace the guidance given to other companies, we can only recommend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134950	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to the new citizens and to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008134957	Thank you. I can be very brief: new citizens support the bill. If the industry wants the opportunity to buy additional voluntary advice, we naturally support the fact that they have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135013	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Liberal Alliance and to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135020	The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135029	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are now through the rapporteur's ranks and I have the honour to welcome the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135037	Thank you, too, for the positive comments made by the rapporteur from all parties supporting the draft law. And if we can go on like this with all the government's legislative proposals in the law catalogue, then things are going really, really well, I would say. But let us now see if that will be the case. At any rate, as a minister, I am pleased to have now received support for these three legislative proposals, of which we have largely agreed in advance. So it is only an expression of the good Danish folk government and cooperation that we are manifesting here on this meeting day. As I have said, and as several have said, this is a good way of supporting ecology in Denmark, organic producers and organic food companies, which is why it is a very sensible legislative proposal. So I thank you for the rapporteur's remarks and look forward to the committee debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135144	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135208	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135217	Thank you. As I have said, it is a draft law amending the law on general housing, in other words, a commitment to new construction, which is built in cooperation with private parties, what we also call, in a popular word, key construction. After all, it is a proposal which is a re-submission of Bill 214 tabled on 27 March 2019, which lapsed due to the parliamentary elections on 5 June. One might say that it is a legislative proposal that has two main elements in it. One is hopefully better and closer cooperation between housing organisations and private actors. The second is that it is a promotion of mixed construction. In the social democracy we are very concerned that we have a housing development consisting of mixed housing, that we have a society in which there is a social balance in the residential areas that we are helping to create. With this bill, we are now taking a step in the right direction. It is a proposal for new and better opportunities for us to support the idea of mixed residential areas. Through this proposal, we are now giving private parties and housing organisations opportunities that the existing legislation does not allow. This is among other things. the fact that today's rules before we adopt this law is that the general housing organisation must appear as an independent builder when general construction is to be established. With this proposal, we will create an opportunity for private parties to establish or build the entire building and then subsequently deliver part of it to the general housing organisation, also called turnkey construction. I believe this will give the municipalities a new and very good tool for creating mixed housing in the municipalities. We are currently in a situation where very many municipalities do not necessarily have the land needed to build more general housing. That is why the proposal to do so in private terms is also a solution to a problem for the general sector. In this context, let me also make it clear that it is not the case that the municipalities' ability to have the final say in assisted construction is being upset; that is not being changed. So you can actually say that this is a legislative proposal that abolishes some restrictions and instead creates some opportunities. I also think that when you look at the consultation answers, it is clear that both the developers and the housing organizations are very pleased with the intention of the law, among other things. on closer cooperation. I hope and believe that the bill will help create more mixed residential areas. Now, at least with this bill, we have created the framework and the possibilities for it to be done. That is why, of course, we in the Socialist Group are voting in favour and are satisfied with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135506	Thank you, rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to the Left and Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135514	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Minister for Housing for resubmitting this proposal. In the past, there has been broad support for the bill, and we in the Left hope that this is still the case. This bill extends the possibility for general housing organisations to be able to receive public support in situations where the establishment of general housing requires cooperation with a private person. Although this is already taking place to a certain extent, the possibilities for cooperation have been unclear and this has created uncertainty among the parties involved. With the bill, we leave it to the parties to decide for themselves how to set up general housing for new buildings. The uncertainty of cooperation is eliminated, and general housing organisations and private developers have a broad and more flexible range of cooperation opportunities. The municipalities will have additional tools to ensure a varied housing stock, and the proposal does not change the existing requirements for non-profit housing on supply, financing and quality. That is what I would call a win-win situation for all parties. The Left therefore welcomes the re-submission and supports the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to the Danish People's Party. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135639	Thank you very much. Then we continue with the proposal where we left off just before the elections last. As has been said here by the two previous rapporteurs, this is a proposal which facilitates cooperation between private builders and general housing organisations. In the Danish People's Party, we are in general and largely in favour of removing some barriers, and that is what the proposal here does, and it benefits both housing companies and residents. So, funny enough, we still have the same attitude as we had before the elections, so we will continue to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Radical Left, and I would like to give the floor to Mr Beazley. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135728	Thank you. It is also my first speech in 13 years, but it probably does not give any greetings. I would like to send a greeting to our minister. This is a nice suggestion, because it's nicely unideological. It is, in fact, common sense in relation to the real world that we live on, and then it is no more radical, which is why we naturally support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135757	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135806	Thank you, President. I could understand there was some confusion as to whether this was my first time in the platform, but I can confirm that it is not, because I was here for two weeks two years ago. I am very pleased with that, because it meant, among other things, that I managed to get Søren Pind's signature on my agenda, so it's really nice. I am here on behalf of our rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, and I have promised to read her speech. In the SF, we are concerned that people will be able to live in mixed rooms to a much greater extent. For far too long we have built general housing unilaterally on one side of the road and private housing on the other side of the road. The fact that residents in a residential area can be owners, co-owners and private tenants as well as general tenants provides the best conditions for a more mixed housing mix. If the law does not provide for the possibility of prioritising mixed housing areas when building new housing, the law should be amended to make it possible. This is particularly true in large cities where there is a shortage of vacant land. In SF we therefore agree with the Minister for Housing that it is necessary to create a legal basis for mixed housing in new buildings to include general housing as well. The current rules make it difficult to establish mixed housing areas because general housing requires that the housing organisation itself acquires an unbuilt land and then constructs general housing. The barriers mean that it has become more difficult to build general housing together with other types of housing, and that is precisely what creates divided residential areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Enhedslisten's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008135939	The Enhedslisten supports this amendment to the General Housing Act. After all, we would very much like to see the promotion of general construction as much as possible, and now we have this rule that municipalities can require up to 25%. general housing in a new local planning area. You can find some examples around the country that there have been owners of such lands, who might have expected that there should be something else on the whole building field. And then it is quite late in the process that one comes to the conclusion that the municipality uses its right to, its ability to demand that there should also be general housing in that area. And then it is practical that you can make an agreement with the developer that the builder builds the general housing. This is what we call the delegate builder model in Aarhus. I understand that in Elsinore it is called key construction. That may be different traditions, but before this bill is adopted, you may be in danger of getting into something complicated legal, where the basis might not be in order. It should be the case that when we adopt this bill, the framework for it is clearer and we fully support it. We have also noted that there have been two consultation processes which have led BL and KL to be more satisfied with the legislative proposal now before us. It must also be noted that this draft law is as good as the previous draft law, and we hope, of course, that it is not a line forward; we hope that it will be the case that the legislation of the new Minister for Housing will be better than that of the former Minister for Housing. After all, we look forward very much to having a legislative proposal that meets the government's understanding between the government and the parliamentary basis, in which we come to raise the possibility of building general housing so that it will be 33 per cent. instead of 25% as it is at the moment. This means that local authorities will have the opportunity to increase the priority given to general construction. So I very much hope that this bill will help several municipalities to use the opportunities to demand general construction in new local planning areas, i.e. by referring to this legislation and saying to a builder: Yes, it is possible, you can just build it all and make an agreement with a local housing organisation. And then you can arrive at a flexible and simple construction process, where everything is being built at the same time and where you ensure that there are more general housing. So we think on the Enhedslisten side that this is a very good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140216	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party and I would like to welcome Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140227	Thank you. I shall be very brief, but will not fail to mention that it is interesting when you hear the Enhedslisten on the platform here • we have some really exciting discussions forward-looking, also in the Housing Committee. However, in relation to this bill, the Conservative People's Party, just as before the elections, is of course advocates of the proposal. This makes it possible for general housing organisations to cooperate with private individuals, i.e. that general housing can continue to receive public support even if it is built in cooperation with private individuals. This seems to us to be beneficial to a balanced housing and housing mix and to an expansion of the housing stock. I am listening to the fact that the vast majority of players are very satisfied with the bill because it improves the possibility of mixed construction, and I am also listening to the fact that there is great satisfaction with the thoroughness of the draft law. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140312	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there is no wish for short remarks, we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140324	Thank you for the floor. The alternative supports the change in the Housing Act. The proposal removes barriers to the establishment of general housing, since general housing plays an important role in the provision of affordable housing, including for less well-off citizens. It is far too expensive, especially for families and students, to live in cities. This proposal may help to open up more and cheap housing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140400	There is no wish for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140410	New citizens basically believe that the state fills too much in society. This also applies to housing. The problem in Bill L 12 would not exist to such an extent if politicians had limited themselves in their zeal to manage the housing composition in detail. This bill opens up even more confusion between private and public dependence on the state, and the politicians are becoming larger. And that is contrary to the basic concept of New Citizens. At the same time, we recognise that in this draft law there are also a number of elements that will remove barriers that will immediately benefit and benefit the individual project. But this weighted against the fundamentally wrong direction in which the bill will lead the housing policy in Denmark, then we in New Citizens cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140454	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to the Liberal Alliance and to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140502	Thank you. When I joined the housing minister back in November 2016 and met with the general housing companies, I often heard about the problem here with the fact that it was difficult to build the general housing in areas where they had to lie mixed with more private housing... owner's residences and private rentals... because there is this rule here that they themselves have to bear the builder's responsibility and cannot buy an upstairs or a block somewhere where there is mixed construction. That is why I also started work on drafting this bill, and I inquired in the Danish Parliament whether there was support for the bill, and that was there. That is why I tabled the bill in the spring. I can then inform Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that, contrary to what he said here on the platform, the legislative proposal that is now before us is a resubmission of what I put forward, and that is why there has been no improvement because we have a new social democratic government. If sir... Charlie Rasmussen thinks this is a perfectly excellent bill, so it's because it was already excellent when I was the home minister. There has been no improvement since. So that way we can find each other across political differences. And it's nice to hear Enhedslisten be so happy with a Liberal Alliance action that ensures that private contractors can take over the builder's responsibility from semi-public, social-democratic, unitary housing associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140637	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140643	Of course, you can sometimes find a few points where you are satisfied with a political opponent. I was just trying to argue that I have some expectations for the new Minister for Housing that under the new Minister for Housing there will be some laws that will be better than they were under Mr. Ole Birk Olesen as Minister for Housing. That is what I have an expectation of, so that I can be even happier with the legislative proposals that will come in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140709	Yes, it must be exciting to see how the new Minister of Housing will deliver on the things that Enhedslisten thinks he should deliver on: Whether to make cohabitation owners technically insolvent to prevent some foreign investors from buying housing in Denmark and investing in them and renting them out. I think you'll have a good time in the red block with Enhedslisten and a social democratic government that needs to balance more and doesn't have an ideological resistance to private rental in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140743	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140746	Well, I'm sure we'll have some good debates and try to find out if you can't do a modernisation of the private housing stock according to § 58 instead of using only § 5 paragraph 5. 2. So I am sure that we will have some very good discussions and that we will come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140800	Yes, but on your behalf, I hope you do. Otherwise, you'll have to overthrow the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140806	And to the rapporteur on behalf of the Enhedslisten, therefore, no direct speech. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for any more brief comments, and so I have the pleasure of welcoming the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008140823	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the proposal here. It is a good feeling for me as new Minister for Housing that my first bill here has broad support in the Folketing. I hope that tradition will continue when I put forward new legislative proposals in the coming months. For the government, it is essential to ensure more cheap housing and at the same time create areas where owner-occupied housing, private rentals, cooperative housing and general housing are mixed to form the framework for local environments where people meet across social divisions and ethnic divides. That is why we welcome this bill because we see it as a step on the way to ensuring that we can establish general construction through cooperation between private actors. With the bill, we want to ensure that so-called mixed housing is built by extending the General Housing Act's framework for public support commitments, so that ultimately it will be possible to build key construction. The bill envisages close cooperation between housing organisations and private actors, but it does not contain a precisely described model of cooperation. Instead, we set a broad framework for cooperation and leave it to local parties to choose the form of cooperation that best fits into the specific project. The current rules for general housing make a number of requirements that general housing organisations must meet when establishing new buildings with public support. Today, the rules require that a general housing organisation should generally acquire an unbuilt land and establish general housing. We could benefit from this model as long as there were many vacant sites. At the same time, it has been well suited to the former ruling principle of the construction of common homes as isolated enclaves in suburbs or in the corners and corners of cities. Where there are no more vacant land which can be purchased unconditionally by a general housing organisation, housing organisations will have to cooperate with a private party in order to be able to build general housing. When general housing is an integral part of a larger private building company, it is virtually impossible to build general housing unless construction is left to a private developer. The 25-percent rule of the Plan Act also requires urban planning to take its starting point in mixed residential areas where general and private dwellings are built side by side or on top of each other and are mixed with industry. There are, therefore, several conditions still in the surrounding society that have changed and challenged the rules in force, and we have taken note of that. With the proposal, general housing organisations will be able to receive public support in all situations where the establishment of general housing requires cooperation with a private party. I know that this is something that is already happening to a certain extent, but the limit of cooperation is not clear today, which creates uncertainty among general housing organisations, private developers and mortgage institutions. With the bill, we will remove any uncertainty about the possibility for general housing organisations to establish general housing in cooperation with private actors in the form of so-called turnkey construction. I note, however, that the requirements of the General Housing Act concerning the quality, size, layout, financing, etc. continue to be fulfilled. The draft law does not provide for any changes in the current procurement rules; the obligation to supply will in future be neither greater nor less than it is today. The bill includes the establishment of all types of general housing, i.e.: both family, youth and elderly housing. Once again, I would like to thank you for your positive comments and I look forward to the committee reading in this positive spirit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141157	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141210	The debate is open. The first is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141226	Thank you. Now I'm gonna have to figure out what's going on with this sound. It's a slightly taller minister than me we have. As I have said, this is a proposal to amend the building law, but one can say quite basically that it is a question of implementing some EU legislation, and precisely it is the Building Directive, and it needs to be implemented in Danish law by 10 March 2020 at the latest. In the Social Democratic Party, we recommend that this should happen and therefore accept the bill. One might say that it is a proposal that has two elements in it: one on charging stations, the other on building automations in larger buildings, except in existing housing. Common to both proposals is that they support the ambitious objective we have of a 70-percent reduction in CO2 which is why we consider it natural that we should also implement the proposal. It can be said that with the proposal on charging stations we are getting ready for the development that we are currently part of: the conversion of the car park in the European Union and, in particular, in Denmark. A great many parties have great ambitions for us to dismantle petrol and diesel cars and switch to electric cars. That ambition means that we must make some demands on the infrastructure for charging our electric cars. With this proposal, we go from 2,500 chargers, 5,700 chargers, to 22,000 chargers. And charging stations are being prepared for 26,000 parking spaces up to 2025, where the proposal must be physically implemented. Is that so ambitious enough? We can say that we are wiser when the Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars in Denmark makes recommendations for the design of, among other things. the charging infrastructure and they will be ready by 2020. So this is where we can see whether we should, if necessary, screw some buttons in building legislation to ensure adequate charging options. As a starting point, it is not everywhere that they need to be set up or prepared. In concrete terms, it is proposed that the Minister for Housing should provide for the construction of new buildings with at least ten parking spaces to be set up and prepared for the establishment of charging stations for electric vehicles. In addition, provision may be made for the establishment and preparation of charging stations for existing non-residential buildings with at least 20 parking spaces and for the conversion of existing buildings, including dwellings with at least 10 parking spaces. I think it makes sense that in some places we impose the establishment, and elsewhere we ensure that the possibility of establishment is prepared at a later stage. So this may prove to be a good start. The second proposal concerns the possibility of the Minister of Housing being authorised to provide for the establishment of building automations and control systems in existing buildings, with the exception of existing residential buildings, if it is otherwise cost-effective. Building and control systems and automatic control systems are the technical systems of a building and must help to reduce energy consumption in the building. Building automation can already be required under the Building Act for new buildings. But this minor intervention makes sense for the installation of building automation, because it helps to provide more efficient operation of the building and will help reduce the building's energy costs and total costs. We in the Socialist Group support this proposal, so it is two proposals which we both think are taking the environment in the right direction. Finally, it is perhaps important to say that the specific requirements of charging stations and building automation will be translated into an announcement of charging stations in the building regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. It's for the Left and for Mrs. Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141638	Thank you for the floor. Today we are going to deal first with Bill L 13, which deals with an amendment to the Building Act, specifically an authorisation for the Minister of Housing to lay down provisions for the establishment of charging stations for electric vehicles and their preparation, so that subsequent installation of charging stations can be carried out without the parking area having to be dug up. The purpose of the bill is to ensure compliance with Denmark's EU legal obligations. But it is also an important step in the direction of a greener Denmark. We often hear how difficult it can be to have an electric car because there are generally too few charging stations, and many of us want to ensure that we can live more climate-friendly and make more climate-friendly choices. Therefore, it must of course be easier to be the owner of an electric car and to choose the electric car for. In the consultation notes there is a general expression of the desire for a higher level of ambition, both in terms of the number of charging stations and in terms of the faster implementation of the construction of charging stations, so that we do not end up in a bottleneck situation when the number of electric cars increases. These are concerns which we in the Left want to be sensitive to and which we look forward to working on in committee, so that we see that the real need follows closely the number of barns. At the same time, we have reservations about the fact that the draft law will mean additional costs for both the public and the business sector. According to the bill, additional public expenditure is charged for up to 120 million. kr. up to 2025, while the industry is subject to additional costs of up to 400 million. kr. This makes it more expensive to run a business and to be a Dane. Therefore, we would like to discuss how to achieve our goal without hitting Danish companies, because it should not be more expensive to run a business in Denmark. On the other hand, we are also fully aware that the green conversion costs. But let us look at the possibilities in the committee, including the opportunities for private operators to set up charging stations. We look forward to the discussions so that we both secure the right infrastructure for a greener Denmark, while not imposing additional costs on Danish business. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141902	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just a request for a few brief remarks. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141909	Thank you. Today, most people in Denmark drive cars powered by petrol or diesel engines, which is why there are a large number of petrol stations around the country. Can Mrs Heidi Bank explain how it is possible that those petrol stations are there when there is no law that they should lie there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141934	Well, I think that is exactly what I am referring to in the speech, namely the fact that we are going to have to look at the private players. How can they help to secure this infrastructure so that we do not have these extra costs imposed on business?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008141949	After all, we are in the process of adopting a law on the establishment of barnkeepers, and I understand from Mrs Heidi Bank that the Left supports that law. Then the only question is why such a law is necessary. After all, we do not have any law requiring private companies to set up petrol stations so that petrol cars and diesel cars can be refueled there. Why is this necessary? Why can't there just be some electricity suppliers for electric cars that offer their product when there are enough electric cars to buy the product?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142024	But it's clear that when we're going to move on in this green transition, we're going to have to see if we can raise the level, and that's where we're going to have to play with the options that are available. And this is also about the implementation of some EU guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142040	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142046	I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur has to say about the basic principle that companies which are going to profit from these barns also bear the cost of setting up the barns. In the same way as if you have a service station that bears the cost of setting up a service station because they can sell petrol, we also have private operators in this area who make money at the charging stations. And the basic principle is that this bill is done away with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142114	Well, we're positive that we're just getting private people into the market in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142121	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142123	But that's not what this bill does. It imposes on private homes and private people an expense in this area which they cannot opt out and which we now give a power to the Housing Minister to impose. So it is nothing to do with allowing private individuals to do so, no, it is expenditure directly on business and directly on individual rental properties, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142152	But I think it is very clear in my speech that some of the things we need to discuss in committee are that we do not have the right to vote in local elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142201	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no need for further brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142213	Thank you. The draft law empowers the Minister to decide on requirements for the establishment of charging stations or the preparation of charging stations for electric cars for new construction or conversion of existing buildings. In the Danish People's Party, we are very much in favour of the green transition, and we also recognise that there will be an increased need for charging stations in Denmark and that this need must of course be met by new construction. We are also in favour of democracy. We are in favour of the people electing us politicians to make decisions. We just have to remember that, however sympathetic that may sound, we are actually moving away from democracy every time a minister is empowered to do something. I have great confidence in our current Minister for Housing and also in his judgment, but I also blue-stamp all other housing ministers in the future by voting in favour of this. We just need to know that. To the situation with the barns: if, according to an EU directive, a builder has to have at least one barn, he can say to those who negotiate the barns: do you know what, I know that I am legally entitled to one, but if I now buy three, can I get it cheaper? What if I buy six or nine? Then you put him in a favourable negotiating position where you can negotiate. If, on the other hand, it is the Minister who is authorised to say that when we are going to start the green transition, we should never do so at the expense of business. We have to keep bringing business with us. After all, it is industry that will ultimately have to finance the green transition. So in the Danish People's Party we will be delighted to help make Denmark greener, and we will therefore also give those who are to be involved in financing it proper conditions. There are other things in the proposal that we have actually wondered about. If you require the establishment of such systems in an existing building, how do you take into account that the owner of the building may not be able to finance the installation, despite the fact that the installation is profitable in the long term? Another thing is whether there should not be a derogation for special buildings? It can, for example, be done. be very special historical buildings where the installation of such systems can be a violent or problematic intervention in the building. I think we should take that into account as well. In the Danish People's Party we are positive about the green transition. We have great confidence that every developer, with respect for himself, will naturally respond to the needs of his customers. Otherwise, it's limited how long his business can run. So we trust that market forces can easily carry this green transition, and we believe in that. Although a minimum requirement is just one stand, I do not believe that there is anyone who, when building a new industrial building, only adheres to the legal requirement. No, I also think they can look into the future because they want satisfied customers in the shop. So we have great confidence in market forces. We are sceptical about the way it is presented here, but we are very open to discussing how to resolve it instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142555	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to the Radical Left and to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142603	Thank you. After all, the joy is always great when the Danish People's Party supports an EU directive, at least with the Radical Left. And it would be strange if, as a radical, I were to stand here and say that the legislation needed to be transposed into the EU's energy directive should not be implemented. And it would be even more strange if I said that you should not do so when you look at what the objective really is. It is, in fact, already from 2020 to create zero-energy buildings, that is, that all new buildings created in the EU should preferably be zero-nergy buildings. I do not know if it will be true, but it is a good ambition to have. So the European Energy Directive here is actually one of the strongest instruments we have to do something about CO2 and that CO2 So, on the whole, of course, we want to support this. However, I would like to ask the Minister a question. For building automation is a fine thing, but there is something that lags quite smoothly, not least in the general housing sector, but I think it might be general and that is the implementation of some digital control tools in general when building. And precisely in relation to these digital instruments, which I know you have been developing for a very, very long time: by not making sure they are used, you miss very big gains in terms of renovation and knowledge about when to ensure renovation of, for example. windows and such to ensure that the buildings have the lowest possible energy leaks. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister intends to work on some models where the resources of the Landsbygningfund could possibly be used, in other words, to legalise the possibility of using the resources of the Landsbygningfund, when building in general and renovating in general, to use some of the funds to digitise our building stock. Because I think that could actually help secure our renovations for the future. We will certainly make it easier and get more out of it. However, with this question, I must express the support of the Radical Left for the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142848	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008142900	Thank you, President. Of course, when more people need to be persuaded to buy electric cars rather than petrol cars, there must also be plenty of barns, and this bill ensures a minimum level of implementation of EU law in this area. The amendment to the Building Act provides for the possibility for the Minister of Housing to lay down rules on the establishment of charging stations for electric vehicles. These requirements shall apply to newly constructed buildings, but also to major renovations of existing buildings. In addition, requirements must be made for the establishment of a minimum of charging stations for existing non-residential buildings with at least 20 parking spaces. In the SF, we welcome the fact that a number of consultation parties want a more ambitious plan for the implementation of charging stations for residential buildings, etc., and we agree that the transport sector in particular plays a crucial role in achieving an ambitious demand for a 70% reduction in greenhouse gases. in 2030. It makes sense, of course, to think about that objective when the Minister will later set final requirements for charging stations. The proposal also lays down detailed rules for the installation of building, automation and control systems aimed at increasing the efficiency of energy consumption. This requirement is not new to the construction industry, and the requirement is already met in the vast majority of major new buildings. SF supports both elements of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143019	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143026	The draft law is such a minimum implementation of requirements in the EU Building Directive. When we look at the legislative proposal here, we think it is very important that we come to the conclusion that there is much more charging infrastructure for electric cars. The Enhedslisten itself has a climate plan which we presented here at the beginning of the year and which has 1 million electric cars by 2030 as its target, and those electric cars must of course be charged somewhere. It is also necessary to go in and look at how we ensure that this happens. How is it that we are using the legislation to promote that we have a transition to sustainable transport? We have a huge challenge. CO2 Well, we shouldn't just think about what it is we should try to achieve by 2030 with 70% overall reduction. After all, we need to move on and become a zero-emission society. And there is transportation one of the difficult areas. Now we are faced with something that requires us to roll out some infrastructure to the new building that will be from 2020, and we have then established here that there are other rules for the existing building that will apply by 2025. We would therefore like to suggest that the Minister should consider whether this can be done more quickly in the notices that will have to be made afterwards. We feel this way about legislation, which gives many, what to say, permissions for the Minister to make announcements that it is not our favourite in our legislative work. We would very much like it to be the legislation which essentially clarifies what is going to happen. When you look at the hearing answers, there are some who dwell on who is going to pay for this. And BL has an estimate that for tenants in the general sector this will be an additional cost of between 1.25 billion. kr. and 1.87 billion. kr. It is a little special that some of the poorest residents who do not have cars, above their rent, will help to pay for parking places in that housing association. Now they must be involved in electricity infrastructure, i.e. charging stations for those who have an electric car. I think it would be interesting if we could look at in these notices how we might have some exemptions and how we could encourage that it is not as much of this expenditure as possible that is being passed on to the tenants' rents. This is the case at the moment, and so it is also a rather special matter to discuss here, because until now it is private operators who have rolled out chargers to the electric car people, and it is very much co-owned energy companies that have taken the lead and which have set up companies that have set up these charging companies on business terms. I have also noted that there are some of these barnstands to which you are not bound forever, because there is a part of the barn that can be replaced, so you can change, what to say, supplier. I think it would be important for the announcements to be made to focus on the extent to which it can be ensured that not only is there as much of this expenditure as is being passed on to the tenants in the general sector, but that it is in fact being promoted that it is those who have electric cars that are going to pay a fair share of the costs that are to ensure that there are charging opportunities for those who have electric cars. I think that would be important if we could ensure this in an announcement. So that's our reservation on the matter. We expect the Minister to come and make some good announcements that do not pass the bill on to the poorest people in the general sector, but that we get something that is more balanced. With those comments, Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143431	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143439	Thank you. I am very pleased here in my second rapporteur's speech today to help point in a green direction. The legislative proposal, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, aims to ensure compliance with our EU legal obligations under the Building Directive. It is a directive that benefits Denmark on many other fronts and, on the one hand, to make it easier to roll out electric cars in the form of more charging stations and, on the other hand, to promote the establishment of automation and control systems in buildings, which can, of course, help reduce energy consumption. The latter is already required in the case of new construction. Here it is about the existing buildings, where it is important to note that existing housing can only be covered if it is cost-effectively understood in the legislative text as that total costs are reduced by choosing the system rather than choosing it. With regard to the charging points, the Conservative People's Party believes that it is worth pointing out that, despite the progress of electric cars, we do not, at the same time, attach ourselves to one technology, one type of fuel, because we want zero emissions. And, of course, it is important that the extra costs of the bill for both the public and the business sector should be kept as low as possible. And here we would also like to see the costs of charging stations covered by the companies that have the profit of charging, as there were comments about earlier. With these comments, we support the proposal and recall that this is a minimum implementation of the requirements of the Building Directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143602	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143608	Will Conservatives be able to support the proposal if the costs are passed on to business and to citizens without compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143616	I refer to what I said in my speech. I think that what is important for us to have a look at in the conciliation circle here now is how to reduce costs, both for the public and for the business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143626	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143627	That is very good, but that is not what my question was about. If this does not succeed, and this will result in massive costs for business and citizens, will Conservatives still support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143639	I have to point out once again that what we need to look at now, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen, of course, is how we can reduce costs as much as possible, so that we can ensure the minimum implementations of power stationers in this EU directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143652	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, whom I hope will bear with me if I say the name wrong. Sir. Sikandar Siddique. I guess that was almost right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143706	Thank you for the floor, President. The name is pronounced absolutely correct. This is Sikandar Siddique. The alternative supports the deployment of electric cars in Denmark, and it is therefore essential to implement the EU directive and put the basic infrastructure in place. The alternative therefore supports the legislative proposal to promote the deployment of charging infrastructures for electric vehicles. However, it should be noted that the draft law represents a minimum implementation of the requirements of the Building Directive, but it is an important first step in the right direction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143745	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. We move on to Mr. New Citizen's. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143755	People often ask me why I am an EU opponent, and this is one of the answers to it. From Brussels comes the directive that we must build barrens, and vupti we place a huge cost on citizens and on business. It is a potential bill and a potentially large million bill that we are putting forward: up to 400-500 million. kr. Yeah, if you count the general sector, it could be a lot more. These are potential rent increases for people living in rental homes and costs which may be potentially very high for the individual trader. And all of this is done because we are putting a plan on this rather than allowing supply and demand to solve the problems. If we have such a comprehensive legislative proposal, which really places such significant costs on the citizens and on the business world, then it should be included in a major infrastructure plan for the conversion from fossil fuels in transport to renewable energy, but it does not do so at this stage. And we are very concerned about the power now being given to the individual Minister for Housing to make an announcement as to how this will affect business. That is why we cannot support the proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143914	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008143920	Thank you. I have no doubt for a moment that the cars of the future in Denmark will be completely green and emission-free. I have a feeling that it will be electric cars, but it may also be electric cars of the kind where you think hydrogen on the tank first. I can't know exactly what theology it's gonna be, but I think it's gonna be electric cars. That is why I understand the wish that there should be many barn-stands in the future. But in this area, as in so many other areas, as soon as the need is there, there are also those who want to make money to satisfy the need. When petrol and diesel cars were introduced in Denmark, there were no legislators who sat here in the Folketing and made decisions that said: Oh, what do we have to do to get them refueled, those cars? We need to have a law to have gas stations spread all over the country so that they can find a place to refuel. You don't have to do that in this case either. Unlike what many of those who drive around in piggy fossil cars tell as an excuse not to buy an electric car, there are actually charging options in Denmark. We know that there is an electric car: you are present in most places. Most cars are at home in the carport or garage, and people are setting up their own plug because it is the most practical thing. Then there is a need in the cities to have some public parking places where you can charge, and there you can sign up for E.ON or Clever, or whatever else there might be of providers. And today it is the case that in a city like Copenhagen it is not really a problem to find a parking space for an electric car where you can charge up. It is actually easier to find a parking space for an electric car one for a conventional car, because compared to the number of electric cars there are more parking spaces for them than there are for gasoline and diesel cars. Well, these words come from someone who's been driving an electric car for five years now, but all of you driving fossil cars keep saying that the reason why you're not switching to an electric car is that there aren't enough chargers. It may be that you can imagine your own conscience, but that's not true. So, let's just wait for the barnstands to come. They're coming as the cars come. There is no doubt about that. Then this proposal also shows that there is something really problematic about the European Union. I am very comfortable with, and am in favour of, the European Union deciding at European level how much countries have to derive from climate gases. Pollution is a cross-border phenomenon, so that problem must, of course, be answered with cross-border decisions. However, how we achieve the objectives set by the European Union for the countries should not be determined in Brussels, and it is absolutely ridiculous that Brussels believes that they should decide how many barns there should be in Denmark if Denmark is otherwise well on the way to achieving the targets that we have agreed to in relation to reducing our emissions of climate gases. How we do this, Brussels should not interfere at all. This is not, of course, the principle of subsidiarity that we established in the 1993 vote, namely that the European Union should only deal with things that the countries themselves could not take better care of. After all, it is an EU system that seeks power for its own sake. We might as well decide this in Denmark. The Germans could also decide how many chargers they should have. The market could deliver the barnstands. We do not need to employ politicians like Mr. Jens Rohde to decide this for us down in Brussels. So I think this is a really, really bad proposal and that is why I do not expect us to be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144311	There's a question. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144317	Thank you. That is a slightly more private comment to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, who has happily been driving an electric car for 5 years. I also drive an electric car, and I want to say that if you drive over to the West Coast in Jutland, there are not many charging stands, so I think it's a really good thing that we get to know how to set up those stands and that there will be more of them. So my question is: Ole Birk Olesen find charging stands everywhere in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144343	I would just like to say that one should remember to say the rapporteur or Mr. Ole Birk Olesen... instead of you. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144356	Thank you. Of course, there are fewer chargers where there are fewer electric cars, but fortunately, the longer you come from the large urban settlements with floor buildings, the more people live in their own house and can establish their own barnstands in the carport or garage there. I was in Herning two, three weekends ago, loading my car, and there was no problem. It is of course also a big city in West Jutland, but it is just to say that it is not only in Copenhagen and Aarhus that there are barnstands, they actually exist over most of the country. Even in my native town of Agerskov, where 1,200 inhabitants live, the inn has been set up barnstands because the innkeeper has his own Tesla. They can be used by anyone, and these are E.ON chargers in Agerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144450	I don't have any chargers in the town I live in. Then it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer for one more question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144459	I just want to say that it is a question of what comes first, the chicken or the egg. And there I think that the motivation for buying an electric car is that you have the opportunity to get it charged up everywhere, even if you get far away from your own home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144514	If you're going to go a long way with your car, you're going to have to buy a car with a big battery so you can get back home. But most people don't need to drive more than the 40 km a day, as I think the average commuter is driving it is certainly not a very large number and there you can easily reach the workplace and home again and load there, even with an electric car with a very small battery. If you need to drive a lot of long trips, you either have to have the big wallet up to a large battery, or for some years you still have to drive, for example. a diesel car having a low emissions of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144555	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144558	Now, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen himself was Minister for Housing, so perhaps the rapporteur, as paragraph 1, will confirm that it is quite normal to set different standards and requirements for housing at a wide range of levels. And sir... Mr Ole Birk Olesen, as paragraph 2, does not confirm that it is not real politicians in Brussels like Jens Rohde who adopt it? Yes, I am glad that I have been involved in the drafting of the Buildings Directive at the time. I think it was adopted in 2010. That's one of them. the former Danish Government, with a broad mandate from the Danish Parliament, the Commission and the European Parliament, which jointly adopts it here, so the Danish Parliament has been involved and has a responsibility for it, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen criticises here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144654	It is quite true that this is the case. However, it is the European Commission which first comes up with a proposal after which the Council of Ministers will deal with it. And what kind of horse-trading etc. We have to do something to ensure that one country can get something, while the other country has to accept something else, is of course too much to do, and it certainly does not have much to do with the democratic process that we know here from Denmark, where there is a public debate in a society which then leads the politicians who live in the same society to make some decisions, and things come to consultation among the citizens it concerns, etc. So, there are no Danes who feel that they have been involved in whether their housing company has to set up charging stations for electric cars, for which everyone in the housing company has to pay, even though only the few yet have electric cars that benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144746	Sir. Jens Rohde? No. Then we thank the rapporteur and go to the Minister for Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008144755	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. The government has great ambitions in the area of climate change, as has the European Union, and in the European Union it has been decided that the roll-out of electric cars in Europe should be easier and that the energy consumption of buildings should be reduced. In order to support this, the Building Directive introduces requirements for charging stations for electric cars and for building automation and control systems in construction. The new rules in the Building Directive are to be incorporated into Danish legislation, and this is the reason for the amendment of the Building Act proposed. The requirements of the Building Directive are fully in line with the government's ambitions for climate policy and take us a step further towards a greener Denmark, something that I am pleased with. Reports both from the EU, from the car industry and from experts in the field say that electric cars are the passenger cars of the future, and they will probably make their big entry from the middle of the next decade. We must support and promote this development, so Denmark is ready for electric cars. A green transition of passenger cars to a climate-friendly propellant, as electricity is, is an important element in the effort to reduce CO2 by 2030. If the bill is passed and I hope so, of course, on your support for the Building Act, I will be empowered to lay down rules on charging stations and building automation and control systems. The specific requirements will subsequently be set out in the notice. Without being too technical, I will briefly outline to you what the proposal will mean in practice. The bill is about two things: charging stations and building automation and control systems. One part on charging stations will mean that, for defined types of construction with a certain number of parking spaces, charging stations will be established and prepared for the future establishment of charging stations. The aim of the draft law is therefore both that there will be more available charging stations in the parking lots of buildings in the future and that the way will be paved for the easy establishment of even more charging stations by ensuring that parking spaces are prepared for it. In concrete terms, it is estimated that, as a result of the requirements up to 2025, 22 000 charging stations will be set up and 26 000 parking spaces will have to be prepared for charging stations. Then there is the part about building automation and control systems. Building automation is the management of the technical systems of a building that can help reduce energy consumption in buildings. It can, for example, be done. be automatic control of a building's heating, cooling and ventilation system. There is already an opportunity in building legislation to impose building automation requirements in new buildings, and the proposed amendment will mean that building automation may also be required in certain existing buildings. The requirement for building automation will apply to all major existing buildings other than existing housing. In addition, the requirement will only apply if installing the building automation is cost-effective. If in a specific case it does not pay for the owner of the building, one is exempt from the requirement. I do not want to hide the fact that there is a bill with the proposal's demands for charging stations. The economic calculations therefore point to the fact that the requirement for the establishment and preparation of charging stations will amount to about 100 million. kr. per year up to 2025. However, the calculation does not take into account the fact that some building owners will set up charging stations, regardless of whether they are required to do so. However, I think that the draft law has found a sensible balance between the financial burdens on the owners of buildings and the level of ambition for the barn level in construction. Even if there will be enough barnstands for the electric cars that are coming, we do not know yet. The Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars in Denmark is currently looking at this. This work looks at both the expected volume of electric cars and the need for charging infrastructure for electric cars. Once the Commission's recommendations are ready by 2020, we will know more about what is needed to support the green transition of passenger cars to electric cars and, based on the recommendations, whether there is a need to further adjust construction legislation to ensure adequate charging opportunities for electric cars. We will therefore ensure that there is the necessary infrastructure and sufficient charging facilities for green passenger cars, so that we have a greener Denmark. Then I would like to say a few things to some of the things that have been mentioned. Sir. Jens Rohde from the Radical Left is asking about digital management tools, and that is an ambition that I fully share, especially in relation to the general housing organisations. And I suggest that we address it in the context of the negotiations on the Landsbygningsfond's economy, which will come here in the next few months. I fully agree that there is a fundamental lack of digitisation of construction, and we have very thorough reflections on the strategy for it. But, as I said, there is an invitation to do so. Then to Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who asks if it can be done faster. I would very much like to discuss in more detail what the time perspective is in that. Sir. However, Søren Egge Rasmussen mentions a figure of between 1.25 and 1.875 billion. kr., which is the cost of the general housing organizations. I think it is important to take account of the fact that this is the price for setting up barns at all general housing organizations, which I read the consultation answer at least, that is, the 600,000 general housing units. So as I tried to explain, it's about. 22,000 chargers and approx. Twenty-six thousand in all, where you have to prepare for barnstands. So there is some way between the two figures at least, and I do not think it can be concluded immediately that this would be such a great cost. But, of course, we are ready to look at the concrete implementation together with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and others who might be interested in it. So, in those words, I would like to thank you for a good debate and for the comments on the draft law, and I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145351	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145355	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister's position, in other words whether, when it comes to making announcements, some form of deduction is being taken into account for these companies, which are now subject to a fairly significant cost, as is stated here. Could it be somewhere about 400 million. kr., at least, the cost is? Are we thinking of some form of deduction, as we do in other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145416	The Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145421	I must be honest and say to the rapporteur that I am not in this position. But all good proposals are of course received when we have to implement it, and of course we take that along and see what the possibilities are for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145434	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145436	I would therefore like to make good proposals, and that is precisely to say that this expenditure should not be passed on to the individual trader. Because it can be really, really violent and really, really expensive for them, and so a deduction could help to mitigate it this way. So it is certainly a proposal that is made with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145452	The Minister of Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145454	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145456	Then we'll thank the Minister for Housing. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145508	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145539	Thank you. The bill, which we are dealing with first today, amends the pension return tax law, the equation law, the corporation tax law and the tax administration law. And it may sound a little long and a little boring, but the pension system is a cornerstone of our society, and that is something we all have to deal with sooner or later. And to make a long story short, the main purpose of the bill here is to provide pension providers with some more tools to ensure that pension counselling is even better. A key element of the draft law is to allow pension providers to obtain information on payments from pension schemes and interest rates. And it is relevant for pension providers to have access to that information, as such payments affect the ability to pay for age savings, and thus also whether you benefit from the increased age saving ceiling of DKK 48,000. In the Social Democratic Party we are convinced that it will benefit customers as it will give pension providers better opportunity to advise Danes in relation to age savings. Another element is to make the rules more flexible when it comes to moving payments between different pension schemes, and in the social democracy we support the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy, both in the public sector and in our businesses. That is why we think it is sensible to make this area less administratively cumbersome. Finally, the proposal also seeks to change the rules governing the restructuring of pension institutions, because the current rules unfortunately mean that pension companies wishing to convert into life insurance companies are taxed twice. Of course, the tax is not intended to be paid twice, so we would like to accommodate that. It should therefore be noted that, overall, the proposal is not considered to have any significant revenue implications. It is therefore not to be feared that a large hole will be struck in the treasury as a result of this change. It is the opinion of the Social Democratic Party that, overall, the proposal strengthens the pension system in Denmark, and for these reasons we in the Social Democratic Party can support the proposed bill. We look forward to the discussion of the proposal in the floor and committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145814	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008145821	Thank you very much, President. Thank you for the floor. This is, of course, one of the more technical bills in the field of taxation. It contains a total of 13 different elements, and I do not think I will go through all 13 in detail here, because I do not really think that so many people are getting anything out of it. But overall, it has emerged from work between the pension industry and the Treasury, and I really think it is positive that you sit down and talk about what we can do to make it more flexible. Basically, I think that is a good thing. Then it gives more freedom for the individual in relation to moving the pension from one type of pension to another type of pension without having to around the Tax Authority and having an approval in place first. It is a relief purely bureaucratic, which we think makes sense. In addition, it will also provide pension companies with better information in relation to disqualifying pension payments so that they can better advise customers. I had simply not heard of this before, i.e. disqualifying pension payments. And then you think, what is that? Yes, it is because oldage pension is a particularly favourable pension scheme in which you are not set off against the pension supplements you receive. Therefore, there is a limit to how much you can save up for it, and you must not move your pension from a retirement pension where you receive a reduced pension supplement to an oldage pension. And if you start to receive an old-age pension or similar, then it is disqualifying pension payments in relation to paying into an old-age pension, and then you get an extra tax. You can still deposit, but you get an extra charge. In the past, pension companies have simply not known whether people had had these disqualifying pension payments, and that is obviously inappropriate, because then they cannot advise their pension customers. So now the Danish Tax Office is given the opportunity to provide information that people have had disqualifying pension payments. Then we got smarter. In addition, there are a number of minor changes to the pension tax rules. For example: children's pensions, which, as a result of collective agreements, are likely to be paid in the event of parental invalidity, will in future be considered to be a pension scheme. In the past, it would only be if the parents were dead. There are adjustments to the pension rate so that it reflects a new way of setting up social conditions, and then there is a de minimis limit to disqualifying pension payments, so that climb pensions there have been examples of some of 20 DKK which have then been disqualifying in terms of being able to pay into an old-age pension. We think that is quite reasonable. And an orphan's pension should no longer be seen as a disqualifying pension payment. We think that is quite reasonable. It is a pity that at the age of 18 you have already disqualified yourself from receiving an oldage pension. In addition, it provides for the possibility that inherited pension pensions may be transferred from the original pension company to another pension company, without tax being considered to be a payment or a payment on a pension scheme. We also think that is positive. It gives a little more freedom for the individual. Then there are a number of adjustments and relaxations to the rules on tax-free restructuring of pension institutions. It is simply not suitable for me to go through the details from up here. But basically I have to say that I think it is very sensible, and we would like to see it working as well as possible with these things, so we can support that too. We consider that the bill provides better information for the provision of advice to pension customers. We also believe that it offers greater freedom for individual pension customers, as well as a number of simplifications and up-to-date pension tax rules. We really think that is a good thing to do. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008150200	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008150207	Thank you. After all, this bill is about a number of different things, 13 actions in total, as the previous rapporteur mentioned. The rapporteur said otherwise that she would not go through all the measures. I actually thought it was a very good review of it, so it would be a little too much if I had to do the same. I thought it was quite a fine review. Basically, this is a series of technical changes which, in fact, simply aim to facilitate administration in this area, both for pension funds and for the authorities, and we think that is quite reasonable to have done so. So I really only want to make a few impact points in some things that may be a little bigger in it or where there may be something in principle. One thing I would like to mention is that pension funds are given access to information on payments from pensions and pensions, which might well give such a fear that there was some data that was the citizen's that flowed from there. But I really think there have been some good answers, among others. in this consultation note, where it is assured that it can be done well. It is simply intended to provide better advice, so I actually think that makes sense. Another cut point I would like to mention is that it is possible to move the year's payments between the different types of pension. It is written that it is to make it more flexible, which makes sense. But I also have a question, perhaps just to assure me that hopefully this will not happen: does it not also open up the possibility of some form of speculation? Because there are different rates of deduction according to what kind of pension savings you pay, and if you can even now move around with these pension payments over the year, I fear that there may be some form of speculation, because then you might get a high right to deduct one pension form and then move it over to another, where there are some other rules for payment and other things. Perhaps that is something that the Minister cannot necessarily answer in the Chamber today, but at least in committee we can explain so that we can have an assurance that it does not open up some door to speculate on the various rates of deduction on pension payments. Otherwise, there are a number of other minor adjustments in the proposal to which I have no comment, and I actually think I will end by saying that I am counting on the Danish People's Party to support the bill. There are, of course, these individual questions which we would like to have clarified, but if there are positive answers to them, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008150425	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008150433	Thank you. With the bill, the government wants to make changes in the area of pension taxation, such as: allow pension companies to advise their customers without undue bureaucracy and resource use. In the SF, we think it is very important to limit unnecessary bureaucracy and we agree with the desire to make the area of pension taxation more flexible, because citizens must have the opportunity to move between private pension schemes without being approved by the tax administration. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008150502	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008150525	Thank you. This is a rather comprehensive and complicated bill to start the new Parliament, that is to say. If I may also congratulate the rapporteur of the Left, I would like to say that it was in fact an incredibly energetic and educational review of a very, very complicated and also rather dry legislative proposal. I don't know where that enthusiasm came from, but it was really very good. The first is, of course, the establishment of the information exchange system to monitor whether persons receive the disqualifying pension payments here. It is, after all, an expiry of a law on the targeting of age savings, which is a law we in the Enhedslisten were and to that extent are still opposed to, because it was a crooked law, which meant that those who have high incomes and many free funds could save heavily on the scheme in the last few years before retirement. On the other hand, the law actually prevented people from taking advantage of the age savings to save for many years and thus actually removed the possibility of paying into the scheme for many years and thus also paying into a previous retirement if that was what they wanted to do. But we must also be true to the fact that that law is there and then the legislation must be observed, and it is of course also necessary that the financial institutions should be able to obtain the information from the tax administration that allows the best possible advice and savings. So we can support it, although I would also say that the entire age savings model will be remembered by some rapporteur from the discussion we had back then is certainly not a rose that has grown in the backyard of Enhedslisten. Our first critical impact or concern, or one thing we would like to see drilled out, is the rather critical consultation response from the Data Protection Agency, where they write that it is not clear to the Supervisor who is data controller in relation to the specific processing steps, as well as what specific legal basis each controller can process the data on the basis of the different processing situations. This is something that we need to get to grips with, so it is certainly something that we will be asking questions about in committee, so we are sure that data security is under control and that hopefully there will be some good answers to the criticisms or concerns raised by the Data Protection Agency. Then there are a number of adjustments to the legislation, and it is with pleasure that one can see that it is made easier for survivors to change pension companies if, for one reason or another, they are dissatisfied with the pension company. Right now, as others have said, a transfer will be interpreted as de facto raising the savings, and then tax will have to be paid. So that is not what this change is supposed to do, and that is a good thing. After all, it is also positive that the draft law makes it possible to move around the money paid into different types of pension savings. Right now, it has to be approved by the tax administration, and it is, of course, administratively cumbersome. If we can now use the resources of the tax administration in a different and more sensible way, then it is good not to spend resources on things that are not strictly necessary. But there will be my second or critical cut, whether you want something we need to have looked at: how do we make sure that this does not mean that there is no real control, thereby opening up opportunities for cheating and tax planning in the grey area? We shall ask a few questions on this in committee. Finally, there is a block in the tax-free restructuring bill. The part that really concerns is that the proposal says: "The proposal is therefore deemed not to have revenue implications in the coming years. To the extent that future mergers would also have been carried out under the applicable rules, the proposal will in principle result in a smaller amount of revenue, the amount of which does not, however, appear to be sufficient to estimate. So you get a little worried, 'cause this can cover everything from 5 kroner. Think of a billion-dollar figure. We just need to figure out what the hell that means. I'm a little worried about that. We have had cases before, which we have discussed, also in the press, where it has come to light that there was a tax gap. It could be with an audit obligation, for example. in relation to holding companies, and then it has been pointed out that on page 27 there was a line and a half stating that one did not quite know how much money this could cost, and then it was a huge tax hole. So when you see these phrases here, you can get a little worried. So, of course, we will ask about this in committee because we do not want to open a potential tax gap by supporting this part of this bill. But we look forward to the work of the committee. We hope that some sensible and good answers can be given when we ask the questions. And, yes, we will take it from there, but we will go positively to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151029	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151054	In the alternative, we think this is an excellent proposal. It is always good to provide good advice to customers, and that is what pension providers are given the opportunity to do here. And the fact that you can secure against double taxation is also a very good thing. I am not going to go into the details, by the way, because this has been done in the past, and I very much appreciate it. However, in relation to how it could distort the relationship between pension companies and perhaps take account of the large ones, I have asked the Minister whether this proposal could make it difficult for small innovative pension companies to enter the market and was told that I may not need to be so worried about that. And in any case, the Competition Council has launched an analysis of the competition in the pension market, and it will probably be completed here at the end of 2019. Then we'll see if there's any cause for concern. However, as a starting point, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151205	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151209	Thank you. I am glad that there are other rapporteurs who regard this matter slightly as I do. Now I'm new to the trade, so I'm gonna have to say that when I first looked at this, I was glad it was Sunday night and there were three games in the NFL coming, so I could have a little fun in those classes. And I am actually pleased with Enhedslisten's statement, because I stumbled over the same thing. Now I've been sitting in Aarhus City Council for 4 years, and they use that trick every once in a while. So I'm glad there are others who noticed it too. So I won't go into it. But I listened carefully when the Prime Minister gave his opening speech and asked if we could make things a little simpler. And you have to remember what it is that is behind that a proposal like this can be so technical. Well, it's that there's some tricky piece of legislation that's behind it and that's doing these things. And this is perhaps one of the things that I hope we can look at together over the next four years in order to simplify this so that we do not have to look into technical bills. But the basics, the substance, are not much to come by here. So we're positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151312	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151326	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151330	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151350	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the very positive reception that has been given to this proposal. As has already been said, and not least on the basis of Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's very distinguished and detailed review of the draft law, which I admit is very technical, the reason for the draft law, as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm rightly says, is that the dialogue we have had with the pension sector has shown that a number of technical changes are needed in the taxation of pensions. The changes will then improve the basis for pension institutions to advise their customers on the impact of the tax rules on what is important to us all, namely the question of what kind of pension product we actually have to choose. That is what is at the heart of the bill. The proposal then contains, as has been suggested, a proposal to allow pension funds to have access to information on whether pension customers have received payments from retirement pensions and interest rates, etc., and these payments are of course important for the ability to pay up to and at an age savings. With access to this information, pension funds will be better able to advise customers, and this will be of particular benefit to those who intend to pay at an age saving at the end of their working life, as is often the case. In addition, it is also proposed to make it easier to move payments, as several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned, i.e. to move payments made during the year between different pension schemes. There will thus be fewer cases in which pension companies have to apply for permission to move pension payments from one scheme to another. As has also been said, this will, of course, facilitate the administration of both the institutions and indeed of the authorities. Finally, it proposes adjusting the rules for the restructuring of pension institutions. The dialogue with the pension industry has revealed that the applicable tax rules may have a number of inappropriate consequences. This may, for example, mean that a pension fund's own funds, which had previously been taxed, are again taxed when it is distributed to pension savers after it has been transferred to a life insurance company in the context of a tax-free merger. The proposal ensures, among other things, that the transferred equity capital is taxed only once and, at the same time, the proposal gives pension funds greater flexibility, even when they are restructuring, thereby ensuring that the tax rules do not constitute a barrier to what can otherwise be said to be appropriate restructuring in the industry. So, in conclusion, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place here today and I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. However, before we go any further, a few questions were raised, which I also think I must of course give an answer to here from the platform. It is true, as has been said, that this is a very technical legislative proposal and, of course, we can take the further debate in committee. Yet: The Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten were talking about something that one can well say is a common amount of questions about whether there are speculative possibilities linked to the ability to move pension schemes. The answer here is no, because as it should also be stated, the pension fund must report what has been paid into a pension scheme and where the payment ends. This ensures the proper tax treatment of this pension payment. I understood that Enhedslisten would send further written questions about this, and of course we will gladly answer them. Then it is true, as Enhedslisten points out, that the Data Protection Agency is critical. It can be said that their criticism is relatively limited, but it is clear that we must, of course, pay attention to it, and I also think that it is relatively fair dealt with in the proposal. The Enhedslisten is also asked about the estimate of revenue from the proposal's part on tax-free restructuring of these pension institutions. We are, of course, in favour of the estimate of revenue that has been indicated, and it can be said that the comment made by Mr Enhedslisten and Mr Enhedslisten on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Democratic It is clear that it is relatively complicated, but it is perhaps a question to which we can return in a reply in committee, because it is clear that if Enhedslisten wants an answer to that question, we will of course find it, including in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151902	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151930	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008151937	Thank you. This bill, with some adjustments, is a re-submission of a legislative proposal that we actually managed to first deal with just before elections were held. The draft law arises from the Agreement on the Strengthening of the Public Debt Recovery, concluded in June 2017 by all parties of the Folketing. The parties to the agreement agreed at the time that there was a need for simplification of the rules in the field of recovery in order to ensure the development of effective IT support and subsequent management of the recovery task. And it is precisely simplification that is the purpose of this bill. The proposal simplifies the rules on obsolescence and rules aimed at making the digitisation and administration of certain areas more flexible and simple. These are the handling of set-off for transport, legal fees and situations where several debtors are liable for the same claim. In addition, the proposal lays down clear rules on debt cancellation and adjusts the rules on write-offs as part of the follow-up to the abolition of a special scheme on debt cancellation for groups of socially disadvantaged persons. Finally, the rules on how payments are to be used and where they have to take effect back in time are clarified and adjusted. For the Social Democratic Party it is absolutely crucial that the Danes can have confidence in the Danish tax administration. That is why we see it as a major task to reduce public debt. It is simply unacceptable that our society should suffer from the fact that some people do not pay their debts to the public. And there are still major problems with debt recovery, where the debt of citizens and companies is now well over 100 billion. kr. The recovery system is a prerequisite for reducing public debt, and we see this bill as a step towards a better system. That is why, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152138	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward with Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, in her capacity as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152155	Thank you. Today is the first time I've been standing on Parliament's platform. I have been looking forward to that very much, but because this is the very first time I have been standing here, it also means a great deal that the draft law both ensures a healthy framework for our future tax recovery and embraces widely in the Folketing. I am pleased to help clear up the bureaucracy and create simple rules for the benefit of employees, citizens and the Danish Treasury. For me, it is fundamentally important that the rules we lay down by the state serve a purpose: to safeguard citizens in the process and to create transparency in public administration. As time passes, however, several rules are laid down by the Folketing which, despite good intentions, create problems in the reality of many people. This applies both to the public employee, the business owner and the citizen: the public employee who, because of the amount of rules, cannot do his job to the full; the business owner who has to trouble the bureaucracy of the state rather than focus on his core business and his customers; or the citizen who has to navigate in a sea of rules in the most difficult times of life. With today's draft law, we are particularly addressing the public administration and we will make it simpler to recover debts in the future. But the bill also aims to strengthen faith in our tax administration among the population. It is important for the Left that we rebuild the Danes' confidence in the tax administration. Although there is sometimes a critical mention of our tax system in the media, things are actually improving. We should be proud of that. However, our now suspended IT system EFI has shown that a new IT system is difficult to set up in the case of complex legislation. That is why we need to adapt and simplify the rules in the area of recovery so that the rules can support an effective IT system. We've come a long way, but we're not there yet. The bill that we are discussing today is part of the Agreement on the Strengthening of Public Debt Recovery of 8 June 2017 concluded between the then government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. The bill contains several elements, including: the simplification of the rules on limitation periods. The aim is to make digitization and administration simpler in the field of taxation. It is a question of dealing with set-off for transport, legal fees and situations in which several debtors are liable for the same claim; there are still clear rules on debt cancellation; the rule on write-off as part of the follow-up to the abolition of a special debt waiver for groups of socially vulnerable persons needs to be adjusted. The proposal we are debating today aims to improve the recovery effect. This will increase recovery revenue and benefit the Danes and Denmark. Denmark does not have to pay for those who do not pay their debts to the public. That would be unreasonable, and that is why we need to reduce the unsustainable debt to the public sector. We do, among other things. by simplifying the recovery system, to which the bill here contributes. The Left can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152515	Then we thank the rapporteur of the Left and go further in the rapporteur's line. And this is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152524	Thank you. This bill is, of course, a re-submission of a bill, which was also dealt with by the Parliament sitting before the elections. When we last dealt with the bill, the Danish People's Party supported it, which is why I can tell you now that of course we also support it this time. I think most people know the background to this bill. Well, we had this recovery system called EFI, which was abandoned. The debt has just increased and increased and is probably 120 billion. kr. now, and the development of a new system has been set in motion, which will then have to deal with future recovery. But one of the experiences from then on with the old system was that the rules were simply too complicated to create an IT support that worked. And it did make the system collapse and now it's thrown in the trash. That's why this bill introduced regulatory simplifications, and I actually think it's now number four in the line. I think that is really positive, but it is also absolutely essential for a system that will work in the future to have rules that can be dealt with in a purely IT way, so that effective recovery can be achieved. So I'm gonna give my warmest recommendations for this bill, and I'm also gonna call for us to do more in this direction. Not only in this area, but rather wider beyond the tax area, because it is a complex area and an area that is difficult not only to digitise, but also to understand for companies and citizens. That is why I think it is superpositive that we are now, at least in this area, simplifying tax legislation. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152656	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday from the Radicals. Welcome and go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152711	Thank you so much. In line with the rest of the Folketing, we in the Radical Left of course fully support the restoration of the tax administration. EFI's replacement, PSRM, is fully developed, but we need to simplify legislation so that we get rid of the knots for PSRM to become the smooth recovery system that it is intended to be. However, I can be concerned about whether this bill is thorough enough when the various claimants are to be connected to the system. I would like to call on the tax minister to keep a close eye on this, because it is absolutely crucial that we succeed in our political recovery efforts, so that the most important thing, namely the public's confidence in the tax administration, can be restored. But, of course, we support the bill and thank everyone for their cooperation on the agreement. It is good to feel the common understanding that we have about our tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152810	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152815	Thank you, President. With the bill, the government wants to strengthen the recovery of public debt. The draft law provides for a number of amendments, including: allows the public to write off debts for particularly vulnerable citizens. We welcome this in the SF, as a hopeless debt can be a big barrier to the social risk being given a second chance in life. In addition, with the bill, the government wants to minimise the use of resources in debt collection and ensure clear rules for both the handling of multiple debtors on one claim and debt cancellation etc. The intelligibility of the bill may be a criticism, but changes in the field of taxation and debt collection are a complex area, so you have to keep your tongue straight in your mouth to understand what it is really about. However, we consider that, in the end, the citizens are stronger with these changes, and the SF is also part of the agreement to strengthen public debt recovery, which is why we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152911	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008152926	This bill is, after all, an expiry of the agreement reached by the parties of the Folketing before the elections on public recovery. It was Enhedslisten also a part of, and we are quite happy about that. It is, of course, a proposal which contains a large number of adjustments to the recovery legislation and which, moreover, is just one of several legislative proposals that we have dealt with here in Parliament in recent years and which must simplify the recovery rules. But it also becomes clear at the same time how complicated our tax legislation has been, and perhaps still is, in many ways, and that there is an opportunity to do things better. But it must also be said that it has been grotesque to think that an automatic recovery system such as the EFI could be created and that it could deal with the extremely complex legislation in this area that we have had in the past and still have. This is something we are constantly looking at how we can do better on the part of the Danish Parliament. When you look back, you can look at if there should have been a praise before 1 billion was spent. kr. in a new IT system, where thousands of manual recovery jobs were lost, and otherwise public arrears rose to a level which is now approaching the grotesque 120 billion. kr. It is, of course, a huge scandal that thousands of posts were thus laid down in our tax administration and invested in some IT systems which then did not turn out to work, and now the debt has grown to astronomical heights. We would like to take responsibility on the part of Enhedslisten for us to be able to create a legal basis that an IT system can handle. But I should also like to take this opportunity to raise the warning flag here. It has to be said that our recovery is still in serious trouble today. We have the new system, PSRM, which acts like such a bar, a hat. That system works in itself, but all the underlying systems that have to feed into it aren't even up to speed yet, and they're about to be delayed. The National Audit Office has criticised this and has serious doubts that it will be up and running in the near future. That is why, now that we have the debate today, I think that the issue of manual recovery, in other words where we hire real people, some hands to get some money in the box, is a discussion that we have to take again. That discussion has been closed down because we have been told under the previous government that there were both budgets and timetables in relation to getting IT systems up and running. That turned out not to be right, and now we are in a situation where there are some delays on IT systems, and it is just for me and for Enhedslisten that it is an opportunity to raise again the question of the extent to which we should hire annual work, real people, hands to get some money in the box until we get the IT systems up and running. It can be seen that the Reichsaudit in the report on the exact recovery that they made in August, among other things. did some business case calculations on what employees in the recovery actually pull in. There was, for example, there. a single project in which each employee pulled 4.5 million. kr. home a month. When we know that an average salary is somewhere around DKK 550,000, everyone can figure out that it is a pretty good business also to hire annuals for recovery in the absence of IT systems that work. But to come back to the legislative proposal: as I also mentioned in the spring when it was first discussed, there is the question of the legal fee. That is paragraph 6, and it is about how many natural persons are expected to pay a legal fee on an annual basis several times for the same claim in cases where a tender procedure for the same claim has been carried out again because it was not possible to recover the debt at the first post office. In this context, we asked questions from Enhedslisten and have been reassured that for the citizens of our society it will only be relevant to a very, very small extent, if at all. Although it is easy to handle in an IT system that we set it up in this way............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That must be the starting point. But there we have been reassured that it is not something that will have any effect in practice. One last thing I would like to say is a pleasure when we sit in the Treasury and negotiate that it is, of course, a rather complex piece of legislation which is both about tax policy, which is about IT policy, but which is really also about social policy, understood in the sense that this proposal also offers extended opportunities to write off debts for people who do not have the ability to pay. We have wanted that for many years, and we really think it might be interesting to drill a little more into it and ask ourselves if we introduce more objective criteria for when debt write-off can be made and if there can be automatic depreciation if you have been without the ability to pay for 3, 4 or 5 years. This will provide greater legal certainty for citizens, a more transparent approach. But, of course, we also have to look at what the less revenue will be from introducing more stringent rules of this kind. Because if you have been without the ability to pay for five years, the chance may not be so great that you will have to pay that money to the Treasury, and even if you have to pay everything you owe as a starting point, because that is what is the basis for the whole way our society is built up, but perhaps there is also the possibility of making some administrative savings and perhaps of getting some people on in life, who have a debt that means that they cannot actually move forward in their lives and can get on their feet and thus also contribute to society again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008153530	I'd like to say to Mr. Rune Lund, that even if you have been given the honour of being the leading candidate for Enhedslisten , you do not have special speaking rights here in the Danish Parliament. No one has wished to speak to the rapporteur, as far as I can see, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008153605	Thank you for the floor. I shall start by saying that Conservatives support the previous draft law, L 25. I was on the Financial Committee just now and I regret that I was not here. In relation to Bill L 26, I also expect us to vote in favour of it. However, I think that there are some challenges in what the Lawyers' Council points out. They don't exactly give the highest marks for the design of this bill. There are, among other things: a problem of ranking different types of debt, where they point out that the way in which the draft law is now drafted means that debt to the public sector takes precedence, even if there are other types of debt, where there was, as a rule, a right to have them paid first. So we are changing the legal position, and some people are suffering. Because this means that the creditors that the debtor may have are put in the back of the queue and they risk not getting their money. I do not think that at first sight was the intention of the draft law, and I think we should have that clarified. I would appreciate it if the Minister would put a few words on it, either now or later. It will probably be a condition for us to get an answer to that before we can support the bill. Otherwise, we think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008153737	We thank the rapporteur. No one has signed up, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs. Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008153750	The alternative was included in the agreement to strengthen the public debt recovery in 2017, which should ensure a more effective recovery of the public debt. That is why we also think that this is a good proposal, because it is not right for some citizens to have to pay for other citizens' debts because they do not pay it. It is therefore a good thing that a number of initiatives are being launched in order to recover the debt, so that the public sector recovers after what was previously called SKAT, in September 2015, stopped the automatic recovery of public debt. I would like to acknowledge Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard's paragraph on transparency, simplification and debureaucratisation. I am very much in favour of this, and we very much need it in many contexts, especially in this context. One of the things that we think is a good thing in the alternative is that there are now clear rules for the cancellation of public debt, with special arrangements for those who are socially vulnerable who are unable to pay their debts, as a former rapporteur has also mentioned. So, on the whole, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008153908	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008153916	This is the coinage of something that took place before New Citizens came to parliament. Nevertheless, we can make a few comments on it. At first sight, we also seem to be able to support it. We agree with the concern raised by the Conservative rapporteur, and we think this is an important point. In fact, we also agree with what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says. I assume that you do not think about the Klaus Riskær fin here, i.e. by five years, and then you can get your debt cancelled, but that it actually affects people who are in the low group and have problems paying. I assume that this is the path one wants to take, and then we look at it positively from the side of the New Citizen too. That is quite clear. Now that we have these cases, you can't help wondering. Well, how can that happen? I know that my colleagues in here did not want this to happen. But let's look at the order. It says here: Experience with the development of the suspended IT system, EFI, has shown that it is extremely difficult to adapt a new IT system to complex legislation. Well, haven't you looked into it first? Has it not been examined whether an IT system could carry out the task of a complex tax system before throwing billions after it? Apparently not, at least not thoroughly enough. And now we're looking into a new system. What is the guarantee that it can deal with the current tax system? I am not sure that it can, and for every time things go wrong, I lean on the analysis that the current system is so complex that it cannot be done. I wish we could do it on an app. Let it be pointed out how simple the Danish tax system should be, so that the tax recovery, the tax collection, can take place via an app. It could be a beautiful pointer mark, and then it would also be significantly cheaper to develop. So, immediately, we look forward to a committee dealing with it. But in New Citizens we also lift the index finger and say that now let us simplify this tax system so that we do not put out even more funds. Finally, I should like to make this comment: perhaps we should try to look at decentralised tax recovery again. The municipalities have previously taken on the task in this area. Maybe we should start looking back out there. I am not saying that there should be notes in the local Bruges about who are debtors, but I see some advantages in moving it out close to the citizens. It may be that there are some who feel a slightly greater obligation to pay to the community rather than to Christiansborg. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154212	Then it's the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154218	IT solutions can help the public and private and citizens with simpler solutions to handle the things that need to be handled. It's undoubtedly they can do it. It must also be recognised with the EFI in mind that it may also require some of the legislation. There is no point in setting up a simple IT programme to deal with a complex tax system. I am puzzled, together with the new citizens, at the fact that we started to develop the EFI without having it in mind, so that we have to see today that this system was then spent a billion dollars on without getting anything out of it, so that we are now developing a new system where, fortunately, this legislation we are dealing with now will simplify the legislation so that the IT system can also work. I do not recall that there have been similar scandals in private companies that have thrown billions of dollars away on IT systems which proved useless. So it seems in public there's another slendrian with this because it's not your own money you're handling, it's other people's money. And I can see that sir... Rune Lund from Enhedslisten is laughing down there. I understand that, too, because what else is he gonna do? The alternative is to recognise that every time you ask the public to take over something that private people are doing today, you run the risk of being sloppy and sloppy. Since Enhedslisten is in favour of the whole of society being taken over by the public and that there should be nothing private left, I understand that he has no choice but to laugh and pretend that what is being said is nonsense. But this example shows that this is the case: public systems are not always as good at this. We support this bill because it has to remedy the problem created by trying to make an EFI into a complicated tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154438	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to remain in the chair. Well, it was an invitation, you might say, to Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, who wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154449	The reason I'm gonna have to laugh a little is because I actually think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is too nice about the parties that have made some disastrous decisions about savings and the destruction of the tax administration. After all, these are disastrous political decisions which have led to the destruction of our tax administration and which have led to thousands of jobs being closed because it was believed that IT systems could solve everything. I do not think this should be explained away by such liberalist myths and fantasy stories that everything that the public does is ineffective and that everything that goes on in a private company is always super good. I simply think that the political responsibility should be placed where it is: there are a number of governments which, since the mid-00s, first with the VK governments, and since then, unfortunately, developments were continued by the SRSF government, though to a lesser extent, but the direction was unfortunately the same • has meant the destruction of the tax administration. I have no need to speak without saying that the disastrous political decisions have been devastating for our society and our tax administration. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen can come out with all those liberal myths and fantasies, but I don't think it's appropriate in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154608	Now I've got the opposite, sir. Rune Lund sat in a ministry and I find it very difficult to imagine that at some point a minister has been sitting there saying to the IRS: Now you have to create an IT system that can simplify recovery so that we can save a lot of money. I think it has certainly been done in the way that the system has approached the Ministry and the Minister and said: we think there are these opportunities for efficiency. Can you back that up? I do not think there is any minister who would dare to commit himself to forcing the system to make an efficiency with a new IT system. I do not know of any tax minister who has had such knowledge about IT and tax collection and debt recovery that he would have dared to go out on that plank without being called upon by the system to go out there. So I think, sir. Rune Lund, instead of saying that it is some political villains, must recognise that it is probably the system that has failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154722	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154724	Officials have also made mistakes. You can see that by following the daily press. However, the political decisions that have provided the framework for our tax administration must be accountable to politicians. Some officials simply cannot be wiped out. I also think it is important to say in this context that since the mid-00s onward, when our tax administration has been destroyed and saved, there have been plenty of votes, among others. from professional organizations, from tax officials who have always said: what you are doing is devastating. You're smashing the basics, the spine of our society. You have to stop, you have to do something else, you have to invest. Don't believe the IT systems are gonna work because they don't. I just think that point is essential to make here: there has been a dysfunction in the political system and grotesque wrong political decisions have been made and no one has been able to listen to the employees on the floor who have actually had their hands in the fuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154819	I think that is a reminder to the professional organizations that every year, in every subject area, you have to be careful to shout: the wolf is coming, the wolf is coming! Because when the wolf finally comes, you don't believe it. We look at all sectors of the public sector that, although the appropriations are increasing and increasing, the professional organizations claim that savings are being saved and that now we really cannot do more. It's a problem when you keep yelling, the wolf comes! Because when the wolf really comes, you don't believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154853	We thank the rapporteur. Then I'll ask the Secretary of State to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008154901	Thank you for that, President. I just had to sit down because I thought that it had nevertheless developed into a really flaming debate. It is good, like this one Tuesday afternoon, that you can have it on a proposal of this nature. But we'll take that with us. Perhaps it is so important to emphasise that what we are dealing with here is a serious problem and we are making changes and adjustments to the system that is now on the way to hopefully getting ready soon. However, as several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned, and I must admit that as a new tax minister I fully share the frustration about this, we have a system here which, with the scandal that EFI was, is an attempt, to say what it is, to rebuild a management area. That's what you're doing here. This is a task with which the previous government has fought. It is a task that I, as Minister, had as one of the first papers on my desk and which I read after I had been given the opportunity to sit in the chair. I think it has to be said that it will be years before this system is fully restored, and I also sense that those who have previously been allowed to sit in the chair in which I have now been allowed to sit are fully aware of it. And then who is responsible for what, yes, that is one of the things that a Commission investigation is looking at now. It's gonna take a long time, too. And then you have to look at the results of that commission of inquiry. However, I would like to thank you for what I regard as a very positive reception of the proposal here. A few questions have been raised, which I think I will just try to give an answer to. First of all, I think it is important to understand that this proposal is, after all, a re-submission of a proposal on which the previous government worked. And in this context, it is important to stress to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, referring to the comments of the Council of Lawyers on the proposal on the question of whether the public authority takes precedence over the public authority. Public opinion takes precedence when it comes to debt in this context. Then the Radicals will say if this is enough. There is no doubt that this is an area we are going to follow, and I must also say something about some of the views that have been expressed by the previous government about how far this system was in its implementation, as it is called in a fine word, so how far is it from like being finished, and was it all ready, so to speak, by the end of 2019? I can already say that the pressure test we are doing does not show this. This is going to take longer, and it is of course regrettable, but some of the problem is that of so-called onboarding. It was sir. Rune Lund, who also asked about it. It is a challenge for us to have all these authorities and institutions connected. The systems need to talk, and it's a good round. But even now there are institutions and authorities that are actually connected. So via the new system is actually being recovered now. So it's in progress and it's recovered. After all, it is positive. Then Mr. Rune Lund also to what I myself have wondered a little bit about, namely that, under the cover of the cloud that has risen from the EFI, could one not try to do a certain amount of manual recovery? This is actually happening, but to a certain extent, because it is a huge task. I think we all agree that the system should be up and running, partly because of the extent of the debt that has accumulated. It is also a very, very important task as such. That is why this is, I think, an area to which we will undoubtedly return. I am quite convinced that, as I said, it will be years before we have resolved the problems in the area of recovery. However, as several speakers have said, the draft law is being tabled because it is necessary to simplify but also to adapt the rules in the area of recovery. This is to ensure, as has also been said, more effective IT support and also, subsequently, more efficient management of the recovery task. The bill is, of course, a re-submission, but part of the broad agreement reached by a unanimous Parliament back here in June 2017, which was about strengthening the public debt recovery. And as I have already said, I must say that what I can at least see is that, when you sit in the ministerial chair, the problems are greater in terms of debt recovery than they are immediately seen from the outside. That is why we will have to deal with this afterwards, and of course we will also have to return to it in the contract circle, i.e. with the result of the pressure test that we are currently having. A comprehensive and realistic plan for the recovery of our recovery system is needed. We have developed a completely new recovery system, as has been the case, but I think we have to say, contrary to what we have been able to read, that a sober assessment is also the one that the system actually works; debts have started to be recovered and we are getting money in the box. This is going to take time, and I believe, as I said, that we must be prepared for it to take time before the system is up and running. Although it works and is in full operation, I also think that we have to adjust to another point, namely that the overall debt is going to rise. It is, if you will, nature in the construction and composition of our debt. This is partly due to the fact that a large proportion of those who are in debt to the public sector have no ability to pay or, in fact, have no prospect of getting it at all. Still, there is about 8% running. in interest on the debt and the total debt therefore increases. That is the reality of many of them, quarter after quarter. That is why we need to lay down what I am going to say is such a comprehensive and realistic plan for how we can get this debt recovery back on track. And as I have already said, I do not recognize the picture, which has, as it were, been suggested, that it was all being ready. This is gonna take years before we get the whole system back on track. The legislative proposal that we are discussing here today is just one that was also promoted, of many measures that need to be taken to create what we all want: a well-functioning and also effective recovery of public debt. But it is also a recovery that I think is also important to bear in mind in the criticism made of the developments that have taken place on one, what to say, legal and a legally sound basis. That is what is at the heart of the change which has taken place and which is at the heart of the system that we are building. As I said, the draft law strengthens recovery on a number of points. The changes we are talking about here have, among other things, been made. The aim is to simplify, as has been the case, but also to support the obsolescence management of a completely new recovery system. Other changes, as has also been suggested, aim to increase the digitisation and administration of certain areas, such as set-off, court fees and the handling of several debtors on a claim, so that it will be more flexible and simpler. In addition, the draft law also proposes to clarify that the rules on debt cancellation apply to the socially vulnerable, and also that we can therefore adjust the rules on depreciation. Those were supposed to be my words. I am absolutely certain that this is an area to which we will return. There is a very broad circle of agreements to which we will return. There is a parliamentary committee where it would be quite appropriate to also ask follow-up questions if needed. But thank you for your positive reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008155743	There is one question from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008155747	I was not a tax rapporteur when the bill was drafted last time, so I need a little help to understand some of it. The Minister says that public debt always takes precedence; that is how I understood it. Is that really true, because then I am surprised at the doubts raised by the Lawyers' Council here, where they say that it is something new, that the public sector always takes precedence over offsetting in relation to the transport of claims, i.e. taking over some debt from some others? That's what the Lawyers' Council says is something new that's being introduced with this bill. I do not know whether that has been the intention of the bill or whether it is unintentional. In any case, I think it is important that, if we make a change, we do so with our eyes open. That is why I am asking, in other words, to make sure that we do not adopt something like this by the back door, which means that the public is suddenly given priority to having its debts called in, which, of course, goes against some other creditors, who then may not get their money back. So the question is: is it intended to be introduced, and is it really the case, as the Minister says, that the government always takes precedence over debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008155902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008155904	Well, there's nothing in that point that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov mentions here, which has been changed from the draft law of the previous government, in which the Conservative People's Party was involved, to the bill that this government has put forward. So there's nothing new about that at all. And it is as described and put forward by Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that's the way it is. If there is a need for answers to further questions, we will of course be happy to help with it in committee, but that is just to say it as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008155932	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008155934	I fully understand that this is just a re-submission, but even under the infallible previous government it might even have been that there had been a formulation of some officials who ended up having consequences and who were unintended. It is not to criticise the Minister or to blame the Minister that something has been put forward, because it is simply a submission of the same thing that our government put forward in the past. It is simply to understand it and to be sure whether it is really intended here that the public sector should take precedence over others in getting its debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160011	It is true that what is new is what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov refers to these transports. That is the intention, and it is also something that everyone has agreed in the legislative process. But if there are further questions on that, of course we will gladly bore it out. However, it is true that this is new in this context, but it is also true that it is something that everyone under the previous government, when it was dealt with there, and in the contract circle was agreed to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160037	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160054	The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160126	Thank you for that, President. The Social Democratic Party considers the Kingdom community to be in a positive development, where the three parts of the empire each contribute to up-to-date legislation. In Denmark, this bill is part of the dismantling of border barriers within the Commonwealth, which Parliament already adopted unanimously on 13 May 2014. Social democracy considers it important that it is possible to move between the three parts of the Kingdom of Denmark, and we believe that the proposal contributes to this, including in the case of early retirement. The proposed bill builds on the ongoing work of making systematic efforts to combat border barriers within the Kingdom Community and implements the Danish part of the joint decision between the Kingdom Community Parties from 11 December 2018. This bill makes it easier to move between the kingdoms, which is a good thing for cohesion and cooperation between the kingdoms. The three initiatives proposed by the bill are the exchange of case information between the Kingdoms, the right to receive early retirement for up to 12 months after removal and the automatic transition from Danish early retirement to the highest early retirement in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The same is true of the major initiatives in the bill, which equate Faroese and Greenlandic early retirement pensions at residence in Denmark in relation to the right to an application for housing aid and provide for the possibility of providing additional assistance in the event of relocation. The bill builds on the good cooperation in the Kingdom community and will make everyday life easier for the citizens of the Kingdom community. Social democracy therefore supports the bill. And I must inform you that the alternative also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160315	No one has asked for the floor, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. And this is sir. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160326	Thank you. And thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur for reviewing the bill. When you are planning to move between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark as an early retirement, it must of course be calm in your stomach in relation to your dependency base. This is not quite the case today, because the different pension rules of the Kingdom parts do not talk well enough, and this creates uncertainty among those who want to move. And, of course, it shouldn't be like that. Therefore, with this bill, we ensure that early retirement is granted in Denmark as well as the highest early retirement in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands automatically moves with when you move to another kingdom. It makes sense in every way. At the same time, we agree that early retirement pensioners who cannot automatically be granted early retirement pensions in the part to which they are moving can take early retirement with them in the first year. In the Left, we can only support creating more security for early retirement workers who move between the Kingdom parts, and therefore the Left supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160440	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160449	Thank you for that, President. This bill came into being on the basis of a motion for a resolution adopted by our friends from Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the last session. It is also reasonable, in the view of the Danish People's Party, that there should be no obstacles if you choose to move from part of the Kingdom to part of the Kingdom, so that you do not, just when you come to Denmark from, for example, Denmark. Greenland or the Faroe Islands are going to start by applying for early retirement in Denmark. Nor is it fair that, if you bring an early retirement pension with you to Denmark, which is tax-free, we should start taxing it in Denmark. Therefore, it is quite appropriate that this bill removes some of the obstacles that exist in order for a move to go so unhindered and in displeasure, so that it is not what matters whether you move to one place or another: whether you move from Denmark to Greenland or from Greenland to the Faroe Islands or from the Faroe Islands to Denmark or where you move to the Kingdom Community. That is right and fair, and that is why the Danish People's Party can of course also support this proposal. I am sure that it will benefit a great many of those who otherwise run into problems when they meet the Danish system the first time they move to Denmark. In this way it is a great help to our friends from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160633	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then, for the first time, we welcome Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160644	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Radical Left are delighted that with this draft law we are now embarking on facilitating border barriers in the Kingdom Community. Edmund Joensen and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, with their former colleagues from Greenland in 2014, began with the motion for a resolution on stronger action against border barriers. It is essential for a strong Kingdom community that we ensure the framework for mobility between the kingdoms and that we make the process of relocation as smooth as possible. Pre-retirement pensioners should not, of course, experience uncertainty about their dependency base when they, for example, find themselves in difficulties. move from Greenland to Denmark. In addition, as a Kingdom Community, we must also be able to exchange information more quickly in order to make the application process as easy as possible. In the Radical Left, we want to support initiatives that create stronger cooperation in the Kingdom community and increase security, so that we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160751	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160759	It must be easy to get around in the Kingdom community. Each citizen must easily see himself living in each of our three nations. This can only be done if there is security and security in relation to the dependency base. The bill provides a secure foundation for the individual and strengthens the Kingdom community by removing border barriers. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160827	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008160844	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. It is gratifying to have to deal with a proposal that can help some of the people in our society who are in a vulnerable and difficult position. It's needed. It may be surprising, however, that this is not the time to do so. In December 2013, four North Atlantic members tabled a motion for a resolution calling for systematic action to be taken against border barriers within the borders of the Kingdom Community. In May 2014, the motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously, and yet it is not until October 2019 that we will have a legislative proposal implementing the part of the motion for a resolution on early retirement and retirement pensions. Honestly, I don't understand how it could be that it would take so long for this part to come into effect. That there should be such a long time with something that can help the good people in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland when it comes to early retirement and retirement. This is not the first time, nor is it the only example of a long period of time when it comes to improving the current situation and legal status of our citizens when it comes to early retirement. If, however, we cannot say immediately that we are finally backing up, it is due in particular to two important points of attention. The first is that this proposal to amend the social pension laws almost only constitutes authorisations to the Minister for Employment and declarations of intent in the comments. It does not only make it difficult to see through what we are really voting on, but it also shifts the decision-making powers, and in the Enhedslisten we believe that those powers and declarations of intent should be written into legal texts so that we know exactly what we are voting on together. After all, the Ministry's announcements will not be put to the vote in the Folketing. In addition, there is also something that we find highly critical. What is it about the fact that a person who has finally been given rest, who has finally been granted an early retirement pension in Greenland or the Faroe Islands, may lose this right and should at a level of integration benefit in Denmark? We run the risk that Greenlandic or Faroese citizens will get caught because they do not meet the Danish residence time requirement to receive supplementary cash benefits. One of the cornerstones of our welfare society is that you should not stand with your hat in your hand, but that we have built it up that we all have rights. It creates equal opportunities. and that creates security, and we risk disappearing for these people, and this clearly shows that, frankly, it cannot go fast enough with the abolition of the poverty benefit that integration benefits are. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we will put a number of questions to L 18 and await the work of the committee and the answers to the questions before we can take a final position on the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161151	No one has asked for the floor to speak in this rapporteur's speech. So we go straight to New Citizens, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161203	Thank you. We are bound in the Kingdom community culturally, historically and also politically, and if there are barriers to people travelling and people living freely in our Kingdom community, then I think we have a deep obligation as legislators to address it, and that is what this bill is fortunately doing. I would also like to ask either the Minister here now that he has left or perhaps the committee will answer a question, because I think there is a problem about the 12 months that are being described. You have the right and now the Minister came again to retain his current benefit from e.g. The Faroe Islands for 12 months, but then it will lapse, as I read it, here in Denmark. My question to the Minister goes on and perhaps the Minister can answer it here, or at least in committee: what happens if these matters are not settled within the 12 months? Is it without an economic basis? Or what kind of courts are there that go in there and ensure that you still have an economic basis to live for? So I'd like an answer at some point. Otherwise, we look forward to being able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161314	Thank you. Then it's the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161324	Thank you. It's a sensible bill. This creates less trouble and bureaucracy for early retirement workers in our community. Common sense and, of course, we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161338	Thanks to the Liberal Alliance. Then we shall have our Greenlandic representative Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161354	Thank you very much. The aim of removing border barriers in the community is something that Inuit Ataqatigiit has been preoccupied with all days. That is why we welcome the removal of some of the obstacles with this legislative proposal, and we also call for the new government to give priority to this work, as it has extremely negative consequences when it does not happen, but, fortunately, it also has a very positive effect when it is abolished. In this context, we would also like to know whether the government will continue to give priority to the removal of border barriers presented by the previous government. Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the submission of this bill. Overall, we believe that it is positive that the 25 people who move from Greenland to Denmark every year and receive early retirement in Greenland today can now look forward to getting help. However, we also believe that there are a number of points that need to be clarified by then. We have a number of concerns about the draft law that we would like to ask about before the second reading. Among other things: We've noticed that as much as 75%. of early retirement pensioners who move from Greenland to Denmark each year have been awarded the highest early retirement pension. Therefore, they will also receive early retirement only for a very limited period and not the 12 months that the others will receive. We think it is wrong that those who need the most early retirement should be put at the top of the list and that they will not be able to have the 12 months that the others will have. This would mean a very uncertain economic situation for the citizens. Similarly, we also believe that inuit Ataqatigiits is that the concern of the disability institution Tilioq on the rights of persons with disabilities should be examined further before we can finally take a position on this bill. We note that citizens from the Faroe Islands are entitled to an early retirement pension for up to 3 years, and therefore we wonder why discrimination is being treated internally within the Kingdom Community. Inuit Ataqatigiit believes that the bill gives rise to a discussion that should look a little further and among other things. look at what we in Greenland call public help; what is equivalent to cash assistance in Denmark. For the first time in Denmark as socially exposed is the most vulnerable period, and this is where we see the most perish and ports in a social deroute. We often hear our compatriots talk about problems in getting financial help when moving from Greenland to Denmark. We experience Greenlandic citizens who have no money to live for and who cannot even be registered in the Danish system and therefore live as sofa surfers, in grey zone prostitution and also in shelters. Of course, this applies to a smaller part, but if you look at it overall, there are far more homeless Greenlanders. For example, the number of homeless Greenlanders is: increased by 30%, and homeless Greenlanders make up 12%. of all homeless people who are in Denmark. We find this extremely thought-provoking: 12%. Because it's hard when you don't have money in your hands. It is difficult to get a home, it is difficult to get a job, and when we put our citizens in such a vulnerable situation, we also find that far too many fall through the welfare society's safety net, including a great many Greenlanders. This bill should help to remedy it for a small part of them, but we also believe that, with inspiration in the bill, it should be looked at a little wider whether citizens who are on public aid in Greenland should have the same opportunities when they come from Greenland to Denmark in the future. In those words, we thank you very much and look forward to the upcoming readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161805	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. And I'm gonna have to ask Mr. Knox. Edmund Joensen from Sambandsflockkurin in the Faroe Islands to come to the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008161822	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that for me this is a good day for the Kingdom community. The story is that in December 2013, the four members of the North Atlantic Parliament united to table a joint motion for a resolution in the Folketing on the fight against border barriers within the Commonwealth. The main objective was to develop the kingdom community and to make it easier to move between the kingdom parts: the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark. We had jointly identified a number of border barriers between countries, including the fact that early retirement pensioners lost their right to a pension if they moved between the kingdoms. Looking back, it was a historic event. This was, as far as I know, the first time the North Atlantic members jointly put forward a proposal in the Folketing, and it was unanimously adopted on 13 May 2014. All parties in the Folketing were of the same opinion, namely that we should approach each other in the Kingdom Community. And now, six years later, we are back together in Parliament for the first reading of a bill that will make it considerably easier for early retirement workers to move between the Kingdom parts. The fight against border barriers requires cooperation between the governments of the Member States, and this bill shows that this can easily be done. In this connection, I can inform you that the national government of the Faroe Islands is sending the corresponding Faroese bill for consultation this week, and it is expected to enter into force at the turn of the year. Sir. President, as an aside, I can tell you that this bill has been consulted by all Greenlandic houses in Denmark, the Elders Case and several other bodies. However, it has not been consulted by the Faroese advice in Copenhagen, which is the body that meets citizens' border barriers in everyday life. Maybe it's just an offense, but I hope that the government remembers to hear relevant Faroese bodies when legislative proposals of relevance to them are sent to a hearing. Finally, I will sign for this great support in the Folketing. I understand that the draft law meets with as broad support as the resolution on border barriers, which was unanimously adopted back in 2014. Thank you. It is fair for the Folketing to support a proposal such as this; it signals that the matter is important, that it is cross-political and that we strike a battle for a common cause. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008162221	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. No one has asked for the floor, and then it is Mr. Simpson. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008162229	Thank you. When you are one rich, but both within the European Union and outside the European Union and have different political, administrative and social and economic systems, there are constant border barriers within the realm which can be very difficult to remove again. That is why, together with Edmund Joensen and the two Greenlandic Members, as has been said several times, I tabled a motion for a resolution on systematic action against the obstacles that arise in 2013. It was adopted as unanimously as has been said, and this proposal now before us refers to the six-year-old resolution. This is at least partly a fruit of the tree that was planted at that time. The concrete proposal has also been on the way for a long time. I have met ministers myself, both in Denmark and in the Faroe Islands, about this, and it has turned out that it was like a Gordian knot that could only be solved by being chopped over. It has now been, and I think that, in the circumstances, it is a fine solution which is now before us after the knot has been cut. The case has been that the Danish and Faroese rules on early retirement have been different. They have not been compatible since 2003, when Denmark moved from a system of different degrees of early retirement to a system where it was said that it is either-or: either you are an early retirement or you are not. In the Faroe Islands, the three degrees of early retirement were retained in Denmark before 2003. So you could be placed on three levels: low, medium or high. It is for this reason that the couples who have only been part-time early-retirement pensioners have not been able to enter the Danish system, into the Danish scheme when they moved to Denmark. The municipalities would accept early retirement only if they were placed at the highest level and were therefore completely unfit for work. What has been a little special has been that in many cases it had been easier for Faroese early retirement workers to move to the other Nordic countries than to Denmark. On the other hand, it has been simpler to place Danish early retirementists in the Faroese system. The knud was cut off with the law, so that the Faroese authorities now pay for the Faroese pensioners who move to Denmark for 1 year. Within that period, the Danish authorities will then have to decide whether or not the new entrant can obtain early retirement pension under the Danish rules. In addition, the Faroese early retirement pension during this period is equated with Danish early retirement when it comes to the right to housing aid. In other words, the systems do not talk together, cannot make us talk, but now there is a overlap which means that no one falls between the two systems that are not compatible. I would like to thank the former Faroese Minister for Social Affairs Eyðgunn Samuelsen for her work in this matter, and I would also like to thank the new Faroese Minister, the outgoing Danish Minister and the new Danish Minister for their willingness to cut this knot, which has been closely linked for 16 years and made life difficult for some of our citizens. Dialogue has been good between all parties, and that is why we have come here as we are now. The Faroese legislation, which is also required, will probably come into force on 1 January 2020, and then we, all the many parties, have jointly changed the reality a little bit for the better. I know that not everyone is entirely satisfied with the solution that is now being adopted, but I think it is as good as it can be. And I would also like to thank all the parties in this Chamber for supporting this proposal. It has been said that there is a difference between how long the Faroese and Greenlanders who have moved to Denmark may be in the scheme. I think that is a misunderstanding. I believe that from 1 January, the Faroese authorities will pay for one year and then enter the Danish system. As it is now, it is 3 years, but it becomes 1 year. These are very few people on the Faroese side. I believe that on average five early retirement workers move to Denmark a year, so that is a much smaller figure than for the Greenlandic early retirementists, but that is as important for them as it is about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008162716	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008162722	Thank you for that and thank all the rapporteurs for their comments and, as such, for the very broad support that has been expressed for this proposal. And although it is absolutely and obviously true what Mr. Sjúrður Skaale says here at the very last in his rapporteur's remarks that this is a very, very small group, but nevertheless it is a very important matter both because for the small group it is essential what it is actually like when you move from one part of the country to another, but also because this, as I think Mr. Sjúrður Skaale put it, both is a Gordian knot that has not been chopped over here for a long time, we take a significant step to cut it over but is also something, speaking of what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentioned, which can help to connect us closer together in our kingdom community. So, of course, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, both for the speeches and for the support that has been given to the draft law at all. The legislative changes provide clarity and certainty for the individual early-retirer who wants to move within the Kingdom Community. As several have noted, the bill here follows up on the joint opinion of the meeting of 11 December 2018 between the then Minister for Employment, the Faroese Home Government Member for Social Affairs and the Greenlandic Naalakssuisoq • how I am to pronounce it precisely for Health, Social Affairs and the Justice area. In the joint opinion, it was agreed that work should be undertaken to facilitate frontier barriers for early retirement workers moving between parts of the Kingdom, and this should be done by three initiatives: exchange of information which may reduce the duration of proceedings; early retirement workers moving between parts of the Kingdom must be able to include their early retirement pension when moving for up to 12 months; early retirement pensioners who have been granted early retirement in Denmark or the highest early retirement pension in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland must automatically be granted early retirement in the Kingdom of Denmark to which they are moving. The background is that there is very great similarity in the rules for granting early retirement in Denmark and the highest early retirement both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. As it is today, there may be uncertainty for early retirement pensioners who want to move between the Kingdom parts. This is because the pension is stopped when a pensioner leaves, for example. The Faroe Islands to Denmark or from Denmark to Greenland, as the kingdom parts each have their own rules in the area. With the bill, we facilitate the border barrier in this area and ensure that the rules of the Kingdom community play together. With the bill, the individual early retirement pensionist has a dependent base, while the procedure is in place in the transferred part of the community. The Faroe Islands and Greenland have indicated that they expect to adopt legislative proposals which will implement the agreement and which will enter into force on 1 January 2020. It is gratifying that we have schemes in both the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark which provide pensioners with a subsidy. The implementation of the agreed initiatives will ensure that the arrangements play as well as possible for the citizens of the whole Kingdom community. The implementation of the initiatives in the joint opinion by legislative proposals in each part of the country is therefore a great pleasure for pensioners in the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark. Therefore, this bill is also of great importance to the Kingdom community. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen was able to ask in her rapporteur's remarks whether this government intended to follow the lead of the previous government in order to gradually ease the obstacles which might exist between the Community. And to that I can answer a big and resounding yes. If there has been any time that has been more important than now, then I find it hard to see. I think it is quite obvious that, throughout the Kingdom Community, we need to facilitate border barriers in all possible ways, both in terms of the mobility of people who want to offer their labour in different parts of the community, but also for that matter the mobility of people who want to enjoy their retirement in different parts of the community. And we have to do what we can to cut across the obstacles that exist and link the whole Kingdom community together. With those words, I would just like to thank you once again for the speeches that have been made. Thank you for the very broad support expressed so far in the draft law. There are several who have also expressed a number of technical questions which, of course, we in the Ministry also look forward to being able to respond to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163208	Thank you. Then there is a question for the Minister from Mr. Kaspar Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163215	It's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163221	It was on the list. It no longer does so, and so the Minister will be free of further indictment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I therefore propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163238	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163302	Thank you for that, President. When we talk about withdrawal, as we are going to do here and probably also a little in the future, there are three tracks that are important for us Socialists and which I will also mention in this speech. The first clue that is important to us is that we work for as long as we can, and gladly more, if we have both the opportunity and the desire to do so. The more people who work longer, the more we have for the well-being of all of us, and that is also why the social democracy in particular holds fast to the welfare settlement of 2006. We are seeing more and more people actually staying longer in the labour market than at the time when they can retire because they want to, because they have the opportunity and because they think it is too early to resign. And that's just good. If more people want and can do so, I only see it as an advantage, and that is why the Social Democrats also welcome the proposals agreed with the senior pension agreement of May this year, which is precisely what is promoting this. Today we have to deal with the proposals which are just about giving a greater financial advantage to those who want to work longer than the retirement age. This means that you can work several hours before it has consequences for the pension supplement and that there will be greater financial benefits if your partner or spouse is a pensioner and you want to work longer yourself. At the same time, there will also be an increase in the senior premium and a new senior premium for those who work a considerable number of hours the second year after the retirement age. The second lead, which is extremely important to us, is to ensure that those who cannot work any longer, i.e. those who are worn out because they have worked hard for many years, also have the opportunity to retire worthily before their retirement age. And here I think it is quite known by everyone that work is being done to find the right model for such a solution in the government. The third and final track is the desire to ensure that even more people can work longer than they do today. Here it is that the Senior Thinking Tank can just come up with proposals and ideas that will ensure that those who are unable to hold the retirement age today will in future have a greater chance of doing so. However, as I have said, today we have to deal with what I call track 1, which is an economic carrot for those who want and can work longer than the retirement age. It supports social democracy. And I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163534	There is one question for the rapporteur from Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163537	It is certainly a lot of money that lies in the proposal to give to the senior prize. Could Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen imagine the money being spent in a more efficient way? I can quote from the consultation answer given by the main trade union organisation, which states: "FH is of the opinion that the budgeted funds for the senior premium in the draft law can be used better and with greater effect for supporting initiatives that can help more people to work until retirement age and for initiatives that can support a gradual withdrawal. FH therefore calls on the government and the conciliation board to reconsider the senior premium and instead to use the funds for actions that are more positive in terms of job supply and employment. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163615	Now it is the case that, at some point, before a government was formed, there was a paper of understanding between some parties that said that this agreement would be followed, and of course we keep to that, because we know that there are many things in this agreement that are really good. But that's also why I have to say to Mr. Karsten Hønge, that it was important for me to point to the other tracks, because this is not enough for us. Much more is needed in order to ensure a proper and good withdrawal, and that is why we also want to set aside money to enable people to withdraw worthily, and that is precisely why we want to help to see that people have the opportunity to stay longer in the labour market through a switch-over system or other. So, no, this is not enough, and I think that has been said time and again by the Social Democrats, and that is also why we are now going to solve the difficult task and ensure that people who have worked many years can also retire worthily earlier than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163706	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163708	I am quite aware that there is a text in the understanding paper on this, but now that we are dealing with this in isolation today, I would like to ask Mr Seligman again. Leif Lahn Jensen about something. With the experience we have from the system that already came into force in June of this year when 170 million have been spent. kr. on a prize that has, after all, got virtually no one in work, what's the point of this gift shop to the middle class, as I'd almost call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163738	What is meant by this is to get more people who want to work to work. I think we all need that, as I said, in order to preserve the welfare that we now have. So it's super important. But again, I just have to say that if it were just the only thing that was done, we would also have problems with it. That is why we believe that more needs to be done than that. I also believe that most people recognise that, before the summer, it happened that my party was thrown out of some negotiations because we did not want what we wanted to do, and it is clear that that is what we want to do, and that is what we want to fight for. That's why I think you have to see it all as a complete picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163812	Well, then, sir. Hans Andersen from the Left one question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163815	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned the three tracks, and I am curious to hear from track number two whether the rapporteur could today reveal how the Social Democracy will help Arne. Arne is mentioned in the Social Democrats' ads, and it might well be that Arne soon had a wish that something concrete came from the Social Democrats. Now the Social Democratic Party has been in power for a number of days now, and it could well be that the rapporteur today was able to elaborate on two points which the rapporteur mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163906	I stand here with the agreement on the right to a senior pension for worn-out, which I, with the party, unfortunately helped to get kicked out of, and which Mr. Hans Andersen was negotiating. And I can just say that this isn't helping Arne. That is why we are going in and saying that we want to help Arne. And no, we don't have the right proposal for it now that it's coming. So I just have to say that this isn't helping Arne. And that is what we want, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163933	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008163936	Arne's being helped by the payroll. Arne takes the early retirement payment which the rapporteur's chairman, the Prime Minister here in Denmark, has referred to as abolishing. 400,000 Danes pay for their early retirement. It's helping Arne. Early retirement, which I have to understand Social Democracy is very concerned with and has spent a lot of energy on, is not going to help Arne. But I just have to understand that there is no concrete model on the way from the Social Democrat Party to Arne no matter what, and it is good that Arne can choose the post-retirement salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164019	The reason why we concentrate a lot on this and care very much about it for Arne and all the others who need it, and as I know from the port myself, is that the former bourgeois government with Lars Løkke Rasmussen at the head, and whoever it was, back in the 00s so far, the after-pays deteriorated quite sharply. And that means Arne doesn't have the same options as he used to have. That is the problem we have, and that is what we are trying to remedy. I hope it will succeed, and I have no doubt that it will succeed, because I can also hear that the Danish People's Party agrees with us. So it is just a question of establishing a model now, and then I have no doubt that it will happen. Of course, I'm super happy about that, and I think Arne is, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164052	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164054	Yes, of course it doesn't help Arne, because it was an election bluff from the Social Democratic Party, and Arne is going on early retirement. However, I understand from the rapporteur that the agreement that the previous government helped to make on a new senior pension is inadequate. There are some shortcomings. And there I would just like to hear what it is quite specifically for some shortcomings that are in the agreement that the rapporteur, on behalf of the government, can say that the government will then remedy. What are some specific things that are missing that we can now expect the government to present a plan for?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164126	I want to make it quite clear, as we have also heard the Minister say on several occasions: we intend to implement this agreement; we have held some meetings; we intend to go into it because what is contained in that agreement is good. And that's what it says in our understanding paper. But what is missing is what I was trying to say in the speech I could see that the rapporteur was here, so he has probably heard it, but I would like to repeat it: what was said in the speech was in such a way that we lacked an arrangement for the people who are worn out who have worked hard for so many years but who are not necessarily sick enough to go around to different municipalities with their hats in their hands, so that they can withdraw in a dignified way. That is not possible in the agreement as we see it. It is missing, and that is probably why we were thrown out of the negotiating room in a way that I should not mention, that is to say that we would no longer be negotiating with us, precisely because we want it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164222	Is it because you have to have a working capacity of 17 hours instead of 15 hours? Can the rapporteur be a little more specific in relation to what it is that there are groups that deserve an earlier withdrawal that are cut off from it with the very fine agreement that the rapporteur would very much have liked to have been included in?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164239	I think the rapporteur should be pleased that there will be a model at some point, and that will be done when we have time to sit down and discuss it. And I look forward to that personally.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164247	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164252	Now I got a little curious, too, because who is it now? Are they people who are worn out, or are they people who are just close to retirement? Who's to judge if they're worn out? Is that them? These are specific questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164313	And we're going to give an answer to that when there's a model on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164318	Okay, so when the Social Democrats thought this would cost 3 billion. kr., because that's what you dropped off to it, you had no idea if it was someone who felt that they were wearing out themselves, about who was going to search it for it, or what? So you just grabbed the 3 billion. kr. We have no specific answer to the question of what guidelines or criteria are required, but we have set aside 3 billion. kr. For that. That is irresponsible use of taxpayers' money!
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164343	Now the rapporteur must be careful, because I think that the rapporteur's own chairman in the election campaign really thought it was a good idea to look at this. It is actually quite important that we do so, because it is quite important that we say to those people who no longer have the option of early retirement that, if they have worked hard for many, many years since they were 17, there must be the possibility of a dignified retirement, and we will ensure that that opportunity is given to them. We don't have the model now, but it's coming. But I really hope that both New Citizens, DF and the others are on target for what they have said and want to help look at it, because I think those people deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164416	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen and he goes on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164424	Thank you. This bill translates part of the senior pension agreement, which was concluded by a large majority in May of this year. With the agreement we ensure that all Danes, whatever they are carpenter or theologian, can withdraw earlier from the labour market if they are worn out. It is a concrete agreement that brings concrete improvements for the Danes, because that is what the Danes deserve • concrete solutions rather than fleeting air castels. That is why I am also pleased that there is still a majority behind the agreement so that we can now make a political agreement law. Today's bill deals with the part of the agreement where we make it more attractive for seniors to take an extra job. We increase the amount of deductions for labour income so that working seniors can all get a little more money between their hands. We adjust the deduction rules for married and co-living seniors so that it pays better to remain in the labour market, we increase the tax-free senior premium to 42,000 DKK, so that there is a greater concrete gain by taking an extra year on the labour market. Together with the scheme, we are expanding so that it also gives a cash benefit to be in a job, the second year after the age of retirement. In other words, working as a senior must pay off. It ensures this agreement and this law. And it is the Left's ambition that the agreement on senior pensions should become a reality as soon as possible, so that the Danes can enjoy it. I hope that we can get the remaining elements adopted as soon as possible and that we can ensure that all Danes can withdraw if they are worn out, regardless of the subject they have dealt with. The Danes deserve that. And in those words, the Left votes for the bill. Then I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they are also voting in favour of the draft law, and I should also like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they are also voting in favour of the draft law before.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164638	Thank you to the rapporteur. Hey, someone just came here at the last minute. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164647	Thank you very much, sir. President. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Liberal Group, Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, who this bill really benefits. How many people can retire directly from work and retire earlier on the bill here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164707	It's in the deal and now it's after memory. 17,000 persons who, when the agreement is fully phased in, will be covered by a senior pension. And then just to advance the questioner's second question, it is only a part of those who come directly from work. Some come from early retirement, some come from sickness benefits or other schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164735	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164737	It is quite incredible that the rapporteur of the Left, who has been involved in negotiating this alone with his support parties at the time, is not able to tell us that it is less than 1,000 people who can retire directly from work and retirement. This is a game where you swap resource people, cash aid recipients, flex jobs and various others who are already on transfer income. That's why you get that number of the 17,000. But it is only a few hundred per year that can go directly, and that is why the Social Democrats say that there is a need for a system for those who have been on the labour market for a long time and have had a grueling job so that they can withdraw directly from the labour market. What we are dealing with here is not going to solve the problem for which the Social Democrats come up with a proposal later on. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164830	No. This agreement we have made ensures that if you are worn out and can not work more than 2 days a week, you are entitled to a senior pension, by the way, 6 years before you meet the retirement age. It is, of course, far better than what the Social Democratic Party has ever done to propose. It's called 2 or 3 years and for a much lower performance. This benefit is what corresponds to the level of unemployment benefit, and you can then live on it until you reach the age of retirement. This cannot be achieved by the proposal put forward by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164902	Now I'm gonna make sure the line is empty. That's it. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Danish People's Party. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008164913	Thank you, sir. President. It's kind of mysterious, really. I almost thought it was a wrong bill I had brought up here today. After all, this is about raising the basic income allowance when you work more as a pensioner, or if you are married to someone who is not retired, so you get something more home because the basic allowance is being raised. However, the questions so far have gone on some legislative proposals that have not even been put forward yet. So I just need to check: it's L 19 we're working on now, sir. President, right? President: That is a good thing. Because you get a little confused with the questions that were asked from both the blue and the red wings up here. But I think we should welcome this bill. That's really good. For this is actually a continuation of what we got through in the Finance Act, which applied for 2019, where we raised the bottom allowance up to DKK 100,000. in the case of income from work. Now we raise that to $122,000, so we have even more to do with taking some extra work. It must also be seen in the context of previous proposals where we have actually made it so that you can have a pension set up if you work. You have a lot to do in this regard when you work as a pensioner or if you are married or living together with someone who is not a pensioner. Then the family gets something more together with home, and of course you should be glad that happens. That is why it is sad if somebody starts twisting it into something negative. This should be something we could all stand together for the benefit of the Danish pensioner or early retirement worker who is married or living together with someone who works. They'll bring more home together. Of course, there is something missing from it, I can see that. I've been asked a lot of questions, too. Does it affect housing security? How's that look? I would ask the Minister for Employment to give an answer at some point. What about people's housing security? For we know very well that there are many people who will say: cut off the one who is dependent on each other. But that is not what this proposal is aimed at, as I see it too. But it's gonna be an expensive proposal to change. But it is not the case that the Danish People's Party is unwilling to look at it. But this also means that we're gonna raise the senior prize from $30,000. to DKK 42,000, the first year you work after reaching retirement age. It is meant as an incentive to work. The bill will then also pay 25,000 kroner if people work in the second year. That's where I need a little bit. For then we have the question of the 1953 vintage, which I have been asked several times, including by some individuals who have kept asking questions about it. I'm gonna stop mentioning names of who's been asking about vintage 1953 so many times. But they cannot benefit from it. There I think we should look at whether it is not reasonable that those who are from 1953 and have already entered the labour market should also be given an incentive to work in the second year. I would also ask the Minister to take a closer look at the year 1953 if not the year 1953 could get the 25,000 kr. the second year and make some real calculations. I have heard something about the fact that they have no incentive to work, but they have as much encouragement as the year 1954 if they take the second year. So it's probably the department's math boys who might have to look at another way there. But I think we should be very happy with this proposal. It's retroactive, so it all comes into force on 1 January 2019 and these increases too. This will have an impact from 2019, which means that there are a lot of people who may only see the result of its entry into force when we get to the annual statement or new calculations of pensions are made here in November. So I think we should be pleased that we have raised these rates. This is what the Danish People's Party has fought for in the Danish Finance Act for 2019, and we have fought for them further as a carrot. We've heard so much about swinging the whip over everyone. Now we try the carrot, and we get a little criticism for that too. But we'll continue with this carrot here. We are sure that this is the right thing to do, and it certainly benefits a very large number of families, one of whom is on the labour market and married or cohabiting with a pensioner. They can see by their total amount that they get more home to themselves. So I think it is a good day that we in the Danish People's Party are at least happy with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165419	Sir. Karsten Hønge has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165423	Well, I guess I'm gonna want to do what Mr. Simpson has to do. Bent Bøgsted: to suggest that we all welcome the fact that when we have agreed on this, we are having a good time today; there can be no one who can object to giving some people some more money, and then they will be so happy out there. But when the Danish People's Party often exhibits itself as someone who also represents the hardworking ordinary wage worker, I must ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted to relate to who this money is going to be. That is one question. The second is: is it reasonable that we spend 170 million? kr. on the present system, as Mr. I'm sure Bent Bøgsted also knows you calculate to be able to send 636 people to work? I mean, are there reasonable proportions in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165508	I'm not sure I'll settle for 636 people. I think there are many more people who think that they would like to make an extra effort. They will be a little longer in the labour market. But this must first of all be seen as a support for those families where one of the parties still works away, whether it is a folk pensionist who works, or it is one who is not a pensioner who is married or cohabiting with a folk pensionist or an early retirementist. Together, the families will find that they get more home. This is what has meant most to the Danish People's Party, and not so much how many more people enter the labour market with this. This applies to many people on the labour market: those who are not pensioners, but married or cohabiting with a pensioner. Together, the family gets more home. Then it is true that you also look at how many people then take the senior prize, which we may be looking at here, the first year. There we see an increasing number of people staying longer in the labour market. And I am sure that this is a carrot that means that there are even more people who say that they take a year or two more on the labour market. So it's going to be a lot more than the 636, or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165624	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165627	The first part of Mr. I can only give Mr Bent Bøgsted's speech. Bent Bøgsted is right. So the fact that we are restricting the effects of spouse dependency is something I fully agree with. Bent Bøgsted you're good. I also think it is a good thing that this increase is generally granted from DKK 106 000. I just remember the amount of $122,000. That part's fine, but I'm gonna ask you about the prize. What kind of people is this helping? Are they the ones who are already in a job where you can go on reduced time, down to 30 hours? If we had enough money, it could probably be fine, but is it really the most accurate and targeted way to spend this money giving it to, to put it, the middle class and the higher middle class?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165705	I am not sure that this is the higher middle class, because I have spoken to a great many people who are craftsmen who say that they want to spend one more year on the labour market. I don't see a craftsman as the higher middle class. Then I think you might have to get up in academic education or something, unless mr. Karsten Hønge believes that a carpenter belongs to the higher middle class. We agree on that. There are many who say that they would as well make an extra effort. They stay just a year or two or three years longer in the labour market, and at the same time they get a pension and can see that this carrot that matters to the family as a whole. This is what we in the Danish People's Party have been working on, and we are actually very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165752	There are no more questions for the rapporteur. So we move on in the rapporteur's line and now it is to Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165801	Thank you. As described, the bill here translates parts of the agreement on entitlement to senior pension for worn-out, and, seen with my glasses, employment for people over the age of the population could well be higher. And with this proposal, not only do you make it possible, but you also give an economic carrot to those who can and will, regardless of their age. And hopefully this proposal will also play a direct part in the agenda on the need for more hands on the labour market, so that we can finance the many good welfare measures that we also have on the agenda. In addition, it is important that we also ensure a spacious labour market in Denmark, where more people over the age of retirement will be able to remain in the labour market, and we must, I believe, also support that from a political point of view. That is why the Radical Left also supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165906	There is a question from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165910	It is my impression that the Radical Left makes a great deal of sense, particularly in terms of improving the profile in relation to an increase in the supply of labour, in other words more hands into the labour market, and that we must be financially responsible. How, in heaven's name, is to apologize for the fact that you can choose to spend 170 million here. kr. to send 636 people to work? First of all, it only gives marginally more out there, too far, the vast majority of those who receive this tax-free premium are people who are already would have continued their work. And secondly, it's not about sighting and what you think. It's something that's shown by the calculations that's been made. Well, what's the average price? Does the Radical Left have a limit on what the average price should be to send people into the labour market? I can tell you that I have a calculation on this. It may be that the rapporteur has calculated it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008165957	Incentives to take a job and continue in the labour market are extremely important, and we stick to that. Even after reaching retirement age. And that is what this proposal gives our seniors an incentive to: stay on the labour market. Both with the tax-free premium, but also with the other measures. And that's what I support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170021	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170022	I believe that the rapporteur may be aware of this. I think the rapporteur is so curious that she has just figured it out. And 59 cents. This is the price of maintaining people, which means that it has only marginal impact on the number of people in the labour market. On the other hand, with regard to financial responsibility, what happened to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170050	The economic responsibility is that we are getting people into the labour market. And where it actually matters is that we maintain those people who are already in the labour market and who have already built up a very high level of experience, and it is precisely they who can make the most of it. So again: this is a very good proposal, which I continue to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170111	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we're going to sir. Karsten Hønge, who just has to switch places; and get used to having switched places in order. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170129	Well, one part of this bill is clearly good from the SF. This is something we have proposed in the past, namely that we increase the basic allowance and that we reduce spouse dependency. That's good. But we have to look at what the explanatory statement would be to spend the incredibly many millions that are now in the proposal. So with a full phase-in, we're talking about spending 180 million. kr., and as far as I've just been able to figure it out... it's just been messing with me a little bit... it looks like it's giving 1,136 people a job. These are the two numbers that we need to get to each other. But we can at least say that the system we already have cost 170 million. kr., and there are calculations that you expect that there will be 636 people in work because of it. That is, an average price of DKK 268,431. And 59 cents. However, it is a tough price for getting people to continue on the labour market, not full-time, probably, because the groups covered here are some who often also have the opportunity to have reduced working time, time reduction, and therefore they also actually end up at 30 hours a week. That is why I simply think it is economically irresponsible and it has virtually no effect on employment. So what are we doing here? Has the bazaar simply been opened for gifts to the middle class and the higher middle class? We don't think that's the way to spend the money. This bill probably only helps to a very small extent those who have had a long, hard working life and who crawl the last few feet to their retirement age. So what does this end with for SF? Yes, we say: as long as we are not part of the settlement, we are against this bill. But I would not deny that if the conciliation circle extends the circle to include the SF, then of course we will look at the conciliation in its overall form and say, as in all other agreements: there is something pulling down, and there will be the thing about the premium that is pulling down. Something is pulling up, both in relation to the bottom allowance and the reduced spouse dependency. There will be other parts of the settlement that we can take a positive view of. So: Depending on how SF's position becomes in relation to the future conciliation circle, we will decide what we vote. If this proposal is put to the vote in isolation without the SF having had a hand in entering the conciliation circle, then we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170416	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170419	Financially responsible, it is said, and you hear many things. Do we agree that the proposals that are being presented here today are part of the agreement on the entitlement to senior pensions for the worn-out from May, in which neither the Social Democratic Party nor the SF were involved? Do we agree on that? Do we also agree that the understanding document, signed by the parties following the current government, states that they will follow this agreement? And do we agree that the SF has signed that understanding paper?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170454	Yeah, and that's why it's gonna depend on how the position gets. If it comes on in isolation, I say that is our starting point for it. In fact, I would also like to say to Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, that I think I was a little too categorical in saying that we would vote against, so now I have to rewind: if it is voted on in isolation, we have not yet done so, and we may end up abstaining. Yeah, I'm going to go straight back because it was actually a little wrong; I was too categorical when I said it before, that's right. It's a good thing, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen brought this to my attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170524	Yes, because I have to make sure that SF still has a part to play in the understanding paper, which says that we have to introduce this agreement, and that is the whole agreement that we have today. So I am glad that the rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, just rolled it back a little and must look at it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170544	I can just confirm what our options will be: if we join the conciliation circle, that will be to vote in favour. If we do not, we will take a position on it and there may be an opportunity for us to abstain. It is quite true that we will not vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170553	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170555	I think it's a little exciting. Now, of course, I have not been able to look at any understanding paper, but SF has it in connection with government formation, and this is part of the overall agreement on senior pensions. Because it's part of the entire senior pension agreement. It's just being put forward in two different laws. I cannot, of course, say it a hundred percent, but the overall agreement on senior pensions with the whole content is in the understanding paper which Mr. Karsten Hønge has helped sign. So it is exciting to see how the Social Democratic Party assesses it and whether it is acceptable that the SF says they are not part of the agreement with the understanding paper. Because this is all in the deal. It's nothing with a deal made separately. It's in the entire senior pension agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170659	Yeah, but I actually think that's what I ended up answering, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. But that does not change the fact that we will then have to discuss every legislative proposal, even if it ends up being part of the conciliation circle and thus voting for it all for good reasons. It's as an element that we have to discuss whether this is the right way to spend the money. That is often what you want to do when you have a settlement. Then you say that there are these parts that make you happy and that there are these parts that you are against and do not like, but you end up voting in favour. There it is, I think, just my obligation to tell you why I think this part of it is problematic. That's not the bottom line, and it's not the reduction in spouse dependency, but the granting of these premiums. That is a little like the discussion we had up to the system that came into force on 1 June with the 170 million. kr., which SF voted against.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170744	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170746	Well, I think it's getting more and more interesting. Then why hasn't SF told Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen: That part of the understanding paper about this we can't be on? Well, obviously, you have signed an understanding document stating that this has to be done. For that was the agreement which the previous government, together with the Danish People's Party and Radicals, carried out, and it is in the understanding paper, and then Mr. Karsten Hønge: No, we are not a part of that. I think it is becoming more and more exciting what SF has actually signed up to in that understanding paper. But it must then be a dispute between the SF and the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170830	There's no showdown. Well, I've explained what our position is. It is quite true that I was too marked to say what the result was, but we are in favour of that agreement. In fact, I have said many times, including in the election campaign, that the overall agreement on early retirement, I see no reason why we should not vote in favour, as I have said several times. But that is the case with all agreements. There's something that's really good and something that's not so good. With regard to this agreement, I think there is an unreasonable or excessive use of money to get very few people into work. But the overall agreement contains other good things. I also think that there are far too few people to be included in it, but it does include some people who would otherwise not have been given a helping hand. And it's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170904	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170906	Now I got confused too. If SF can, sir. Karsten Hønge confirm that SF is considering abstaining from voting for an element included in the understanding paper that SF has entered into?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008170925	So far, we stand by the agreement that exists. I think it is my duty to draw attention to this, as we did before. After all, we had the agreement before the summer, where Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen could have had the pleasure of attending. SF was against spending 170 million. kr. to get 636 people to work. We don't think it's a fair way to spend the money. The situation here is that it is part of the understanding paper, and we have said many times along the way that the overall agreement on early retirement will be voted in favour. We think it's an improvement. We think it is a very small improvement that is being made. As far as I remember, it is 137 people per year for 4 years that the senior pre-retirement pension will include coming from full-time work, but it is better to help the 137 people per year than not to help anyone, which is why we can also vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171003	Well, first, sir. Karsten Hønge that if it came to the vote now as a proposal, it would vote against. No, I didn't say that. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen asks: will you vote against? No, but then you correct it to abstain. But it was first said that there would be a vote against. Then they say that they will abstain. So I ask again: will the SF abstain from voting on an element that is part of the understanding paper that has been entered into?
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171036	No, it is not fair to refer to what I said before, where I clearly got the brake on and said it was wrong that it was too ultimate from me. So it is out of the question that we are voting against it. I repaired that afterwards, and it was good, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen brought this to my attention. Then I simply went too far rhetorically. So there is no doubt about that: we will not. But it is fair enough to say that this depends on how it is interpreted. Everything seems to indicate that we are going to vote in favour. But that doesn't change the fact that all of us in here, no matter what we vote, should be aware of what we spend our money on, and whether it's fair to spend so much money on having such a tiny effect. It's a fair discussion if you take care of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171110	Then no one else has asked for the floor to speak to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171120	Thank you. Today we have an A team and a B team when it comes to pensioners in our society. There has been a polarisation between those who have a private pension fund and those who do not. We have a group of pensioners who sit very well in it, and that is wonderful, but we also have too many, hundreds of thousands of pensioners on the very other end who are hard at it. For approx. One year ago, when Minister for Social Affairs Astrid Krag was the elder rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, she said: "With the solutions being discussed, we owe it to us to focus on those who have the least. However, we have not been called for negotiations on this, it is the government and the Danish People's Party that are discussing this issue, and what has escaped from the premises is that it is very expensive... Therefore, we have also appealed that instead of making a broad boost, where you also give a boost to some of the pensioners who live in expensive houses on Strandvejen and have capital pensions, instead you focus on those who have the least. ▪ Why is the current Social Democratic Government not following the wise thinking of their former rapporteur for the elderly and the current Minister for Social Affairs? Not all people can work their way out to after the retirement age, and that's why you're gonna have to do a bias with these senior prizes because they go to those who have work after they've reached the retirement age. It is not even a year ago that the Folketing adopted economic improvements for pensioners who have income in addition to the national pension, and now we want to do the same again, but without having anything to do with those who have the least. We keep being told we have to wait. The senior premium scheme is a scheme for those citizens who continue to work after reaching their retirement age. Now you want to increase the senior prize from 30,000 to 42,000 DKK. and introduce a new second senior prize of 25,000 DKK. For those who work from 13 to 24 months after reaching retirement age, it is they who have worked at least 1,560 hours of pay. In addition, deductions for the calculation of pensions will be further increased. The increase in the senior premium and the new second senior premium are estimated to cost 359 million. kr. in 2025. The higher income allowance is estimated to cost 188.2 million. kr. after taxes in 2019 and 139,9 million. kr. in 2025. In the Enhedslisten, we cannot help asking the question: could this money not, frankly, be used better, to give to some of the people's pensioners who are hard at work? We think it is time that we actually help those who have little to move around with. Compared to the part of the proposal that gives greater marital and sexual independence, we support the Enhedslisten, of course. Pre-retirement pensions should actually be a right that we as a community give to those people who, for physical, psychological or social reasons, cannot work and therefore cannot support themselves. Suffering should not be subject to financial burden, but that is what happens when people who have been granted an early retirement pension as a result of a serious illness, whether physical, psychological or social, are made dependent on what their spouse or partner has on income. We are in the Enhedslisten against this, and that is why we very much welcome any action that frees and separates the individual, as we see it here too, and that is why we support the part of the proposal that gives greater deduction to the income of spouses and couples, which helps the couples where one is on early retirement. However, we are critical of the fact that pensioners who have the least are not being helped, and I cannot therefore state on a stand-by basis whether or not we are going to vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171531	I'm gonna check the talking line, and it's gonna be zero. Thank you, Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, and then we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171543	Thank you. When you hear the debate on the latest legislation on early retirement, there is no doubt that it has been a little oversold. There are some improvements in it, and we welcome them in New Citizens. We are always happy when citizens can be allowed to keep a little more of their money themselves, and when citizens can, you can guarantee that New Citizens will also vote in favour. Now we were not in the Folketing at that time, but when we look at it now and here, we look positively at the things that are in it. But I cannot help but say that this is quite a patchwork which, after all, is a political piece of work, where people are kept in a straitjacket, giving them a little hand here and a little hand to keep power in the Folketing. This is a completely wrong direction, we think in New Citizens. We should create a system that frees citizens instead of constantly looking at their tax returns. Year by year, they must keep an eye on when they are being punished for working a little. We do not think this is the right solution. The problem we have in connection with worn-out has not been solved either. The position of new citizens is clear: if you are worn out, do not work. And we have not yet seen what this proposal is that comes from the government. We have said repeatedly that we are going constructively to the negotiations with the government that may come. We think it is important that, as a whole, Parliament should address the issue that we have here. Just to illustrate, the elements contained in the agreement, i.e. the increase in the amount of deduction, the increase in the amount of deduction from the income base of spouses and the increase in the tax-free senior premium, sound very simple, but if you look at all the requirements that are, in relation to whether you can get this senior premium, then it is a patchwork that makes it very, very difficult for the citizen to find out whether he can get this senior premium or not. And then, God help me, you've done a new thing that says that if you're gonna get this senior prize second year, then it's not gonna be the 32,000-42,000 kroner, no, it's gonna be 25,000 kroner. It is therefore bureaucracy and hasty administration, and that is not the right way to go. We should take the lead in creating a system that is much simpler and much more flexible. We would like citizens to be able to keep much more money for themselves throughout their lives, so that it is not up to the politicians in here when citizens choose to retire, but up to themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171815	Thank you. For the sake of good order, I must say that we must not call on the higher powers of this Assembly. There is no one who wanted to make a comment, so I move on quickly in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008171843	Before the election campaign, especially the Social Democratic Party ran around with some rather airy and unconcrete promises that there should be an early withdrawal to Arne, if you have any doubts about who Arne is, it is he who the Prime Minister went down and gave a big hug and with almost trembling voice and tears in his eyes said that now it was finally Arne's turn but it all turned out to be one big bluff, because Arne just has to be on pre-retirement pay, and that has always been known. But fortunately the VLAK government took the agenda quite seriously and pulled the work clothes while the others were out bluffing, and made a good deal with the Danish People's Party and Radical Left, which has improved the conditions for all the real Arner out there. And this bill is then part of the overall agreement, and the bill goes on, as has been explained a few times, all the very many Danes who can easily work, even though they have passed the 65 years, and you like to increase the incentive for it to pay better. If it were for the Liberal Alliance alone, we could be a little annoyed that this bill does not exactly contribute to more simple legislation. We would have liked the set-off rate to be reduced or eliminated altogether. It had been simpler, and crown by crown it would also have given more employment. Unfortunately there was no mood for that, it seemed a little too far-reaching to move down such a debureaucratisation trail, but nevertheless this bill is common sense, and the overall agreement is good news for the real Arner out there in Danish society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172022	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172038	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much for your comments, too. Now the debate has gone a long way, including on a number of issues that have little to do with this bill, but it doesn't really matter; we take that with us. In fact, we welcome this, because one of the things that I, at least as both Social Democratic Minister for Employment and before ordinary Social Democratic MEPs, have been extremely proud of, has been how my party has been able to raise the agenda, the very, very important agenda, which we are all discussing and now have been discussing at least since the New Year's, namely how we can do something to ensure a dignified end to working life for the people who are being worn out. But it doesn't have much to do with this bill. This bill translates parts of the agreement on entitlement to senior pension for worn-out persons. This bill sets out to give those who can and will continue to work an improved financial incentive to work after the retirement age. For pensioners who work, the basic allowance for personal work is increased from DKK 100,008. to DKK 122,004, thus earning nearly DKK 22,000. more a year, without affecting the pension supplement. For those who will work on an average of 30 hours or more per week, the senior premium in year one after the retirement age is increased to DKK 42,000. And a senior premium is introduced in the year two after the retirement age of 25,000 DKK. It is planned that the senior premium in year two will follow the same rules as apply when the premium is earned in year one. Finally, the draft law will continue and expand the incentives for employment for a non-pensioner who is married or living with a pensioner. This will be done by increasing the deduction for the non-retired spouse or roommate's income. All this is, of course, the real content of today's draft law contained in the overall agreement on senior pensions. In conclusion, of course, I would also like to say that in recent times there has been a great deal of debate on the issue of whether or not to consult the media about exactly the agreement on senior pensions. This bill is, of course, the first in a series and, as I have said on several occasions in the media, to the conciliation circle and elsewhere, this government intends to implement the senior pension agreement. We're taking the first step to this today with this bill. At the same time, I have informed the existing conciliation circle that the government intends to enter into the senior pension agreement and that this does not prevent the government's work on proposals for a right to early retirement. In addition, there is only one thing to thank for the discussion that has taken place, particularly on the part that has been about the legislative proposal itself today, but also, of course, on the other comments, and I look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172339	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172342	I have to say that I only have to thank myself for the paddle I set out in relation to the position of the SF in a possible forthcoming vote on this proposal. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether, in relation to the understanding paper, there is something wrong with the SF ending up in a position where we vote no or abstain. I am not asking for the Minister's position on what we should do, but I just want to know whether it would be in line with the spirit on which the understanding paper is based, if it could in fact end up with us voting against without the government seeing it as a breach of promise, a breach of conciliation or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172417	Well, now the structure of understanding paper is quite new. I don't think its just been seen before. On the other hand, I do not think it will be the last of its kind. We are in a situation where we have a social democratic minority government, and it is always a question of what interpretation is in the room in which one was sitting, etc. I think that the SF should seriously and positively consider supporting this bill. I also think that the SF should give positive consideration to supporting the agreement on senior pensions. As I have said many times, I do not see that the agreement on senior pensions, which, as estimated, at least in the previous calculations, gives a right to what is equivalent to 133 full-time persons per year. This is a very important point, Mr President, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. However, as to whether SF is obliged to support it in relation to the understanding paper, that is not my view. And that is simply because the paper of understanding does not have the character of a legal document. The understanding paper is all about what the government intends to do and what it is about an understanding that has been between the parties, which has formed the basis for the government. That is my view at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172537	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172538	First of all, of course, I would like to acknowledge that the government wants to extend the circle supporting the legislative proposals. And as I also said in my rapporteur's speech: if the SF should end up being part of the conciliation circle, it is quite obvious that we will end up voting in favour, because then it is a weighing-up of the overall arguments for and against. But just to make it quite clear: if it should end with the SF not being part of the conciliation circle when this proposal is put to the vote in isolation, is it not seen as a government in this way as a hostile act or a breach of anything if we should end up voting against it? It's just to get the last confirmation of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172615	Well, I don't quite know what sir. Karsten Hønge means by hostile action. I think, to be perfectly honest, never, I have taken the view that there would be other parties supporting this, other than the government and the existing conciliation parties. On the other hand, I would urge all other parties to both apply to join the conciliation if there is an appetite for it and to support it, because it is quite an excellent agreement. My Social Democratic DNA always tells me to apply to the settlements that exist to apply to agreements. One of my favorite quotes is by H.C. Hansen, who said that the strength of the labour movement has always been to produce results rather than resolutions, and that is why my errand, both as a social democratic minister and as a social democrat in general, will always be to seek results wherever they may be and no matter how large or small they may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172712	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172714	I think it's interesting when SF with mr. Karsten Hønge now says that SF is not obliged to vote for and to support things that are in the understanding paper. It opens up a barn gate for other parties, which may not agree with everything in the understanding paper either. So where's the limit of what in this understanding paper you're gonna vote for? When it comes to the climate agenda, it goes on to say that we have committed 70%, because that is what is in the understanding paper. So I would like to ask the Minister if there is no expectation that those parties that have signed this paper of understanding will also support that paper. I am well aware that it is not legally binding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172756-2	Well, it's a new exercise to have to interpret a whole new construction. It is not a government basis; it is a paper which provides the framework for the common quantity of the parties, in relation to what they accept that the new government should conduct its policy. And everything else has just been and I think everyone has been able to follow that on the television screens... a web of various compromises. And I know that there are some things in the understanding paper that some parties do not agree with, and there will be other things in the understanding paper that other parties do not agree with. What one might say is in the understanding paper is what the government has committed itself to and intends to do. And the paper of understanding, at least in my interpretation, has only a binding function or obligation to some extent the government's intentions with regard to government work. That's my interpretation. Having said that, if I may take the floor in the end, we hope for the broadest possible support from all parties of the Folketing to all the policies the government intends to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172906	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Thank you, Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191008172926	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 9 October 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
