ParlaMint-DK_20190405100018	The meeting is open. The Finance Committee has submitted: Report and recommendation on draft parliamentary resolution pursuant to Article 47 of the Constitution with regard to the state accounts for the financial year 2017. B 151) The report and the recommendation will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100044	The debate is open. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100103	I would like to start by thanking those who have pressed for us to change the method of supervision of construction. Thank you for the good cooperation with the AT consultants in Dansk Metal. It is strange that in the administration of Danish society we have reached so far in the application of schedules and performance contracts that we have completely forgotten to apply common sense. We will then jointly remedy this today, at least in relation to how the Factory Inspectorate will in future supervise the building and construction sector and perhaps also in other sectors, if that makes sense. The results obtained by moving from risk-based supervision, which I have, with shame, helped to introduce myself, to supervision, which relates to how best and most effectively to get hold of the stumbled vessels on the construction sites, clearly shows that there is something to be done by changing new public management with professionalism and common sense. The Social Democratic Party fully supports the proposed bill. However, I would like to make a few comments and clarify questions about the text. I assume that in future it will also be the case that there will be random checks and supervision of complaints and that there will be an answer to all problems and complaints, including any new sectors that will be covered. I would like to clarify that. I would also like to know whether, in connection with the selection of new industries, experimental periods will be carried out in line with what we have seen in the field of construction before permanent arrangements are implemented. I look forward to hearing the Minister's comments and, as I said, the Social Democratic Party fully supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100244	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100258	Thank you, President. I'm sorry I'm limping up the stairs, but there was a Copenhagen cobblestone that was a little too high and that I got to step on a little wrong, but that's what can happen when the municipality doesn't keep the sidewalks in order. But that is not what it is about today. It is the work environment and the work of the Factory Inspectorate. There has been an experiment with a specific supervision of the construction sites, which is a holistic supervision. In the past, it was the case that one company was concentrated. Now you have made an attempt to take with you everything that is on the construction site, and it has produced very good results. That is why we must, of course, continue to do so. At the same time, however, the Danish Labour Inspectorate would also like to have the opportunity to see whether it can be extended to other sectors than the construction industry. It is very good that you can benefit from the experience you have gained in making better supervision and getting more control over what is happening and thus getting a better working environment. So the Danish People's Party can of course support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100412	Thank you. And then it's sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100420	Thank you. In the Left, we have a strong focus on ensuring a safe and healthy working environment in the country's workplaces. We owe that to the record number of people who go to work every day. The government has initiated a series of actions addressing the challenges of the working environment that we are unfortunately seeing today. This is particularly true of the Committee of Experts, which has followed the work on the working environment and presented a number of specific recommendations on this basis. And what the proposal we are discussing today is that we focus on ensuring that the Factory Inspectorate's control efforts work in the most effective and appropriate way. For example, this has not been the case in the construction industry. Therefore, we agreed back in 2017 in the Working Environment Association to launch an experiment with the new holistic supervision. And it has been a success for a better working environment. The Factory Inspectorate comes to places where it is needed and, unfortunately, they find a marked increase in material health and safety problems than in the case of risk-based supervision. We must continue to do so, which is why I am pleased that we are a group of parties supporting this bill, and of course we in the Left are doing so too. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100547	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405100558	What we have to deal with today is two things. It is to have a slightly greater degree of methodological freedom in the work of labour inspectorate, i.e. supervisory authority, and control of employers, and then it is to formally adapt us that the LO will no longer be called LO, but FH. And it's okay to get those things in place. It is the case that there are methods other than risk-based supervision, and I would also say that it is a little strange to find out now. Well, we have used a lot of supervisory methods throughout history, which is why it is important that we look at them all the time. And I am surprised that we actually have a situation where a minister has to decide what supervisory methods are needed by the Factory Inspectorate. I think there should be a freedom of method. For the experts in supervision actually go around in the places every day, and that means that one should give the Labour Inspectorate method freedom so that they can say: We choose the method we think is best in this industry and in this campaign based on a more holistic approach. The aim must always be that we have effective supervision, but I am not in favour of the fact that we necessarily go only for those jobs where we know there are infringements in advance. It is good to do so, but we also need the extra power to be able to go out on random visits, because they are in themselves preventive. Having a visit from the Factory Inspectorate increases the belief that someone is watching that we do things properly. And I have met several, both employers and employees, who say: Well they haven't been here for the last 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years. And then it doesn't really matter if we have a labour inspectorate. And that's not gonna work. It would be the same as if there were never a policeman on the street who checked compliance with the speed limit or other more serious things. There must be the resources needed to make samples, because they are preventive. The same goes for the fact that we need a much more effective follow-up of complaints than we do today. But of course I can support this because it is a step towards freedom of method, but we should like to go further. I think we would have a much, much more dynamic and much more skilled labour inspectorate if we gave them the freedom of method and said: You plan your campaigns as best you can and with the knowledge you have. What if we had a minister who didn't know anything about working conditions? It would be disastrous if he were to decide what working methods were to be used in the Factory Inspectorate. Another thing I would like to warn you about now that we are at it is the development that is in the Factory Inspectorate. It is of course pointless that we should just have some fine words about what kind of supervisory methods we have if we are undermining the labour inspectorate's ability to work. I would like to mention two or three things. First, in 2015, 51,296 visits were made. In 2018, it had fallen to 30,361 visits • a decrease of 40 per cent. This is a disastrous development, and although I know that there is a different content in the visits in 2018, it is a disastrous development when there are only 30,000 now compared to 51,000 before being visited. Secondly, with regard to reactions, i.e. injunctions, etc., there were 23,089 orders in 2015 and it was quite wrong what the rapporteur of the Left said about it having increased. It's actually fallen. In 2018, it was down to 17,801 orders. This means that there was a sharp decrease of 23 per cent. in commands and reactions. This means that we have not managed to do what has been talked about, that is, to focus on those who do something bad or violate the law or treat their people badly. This is primarily about people's lives and health, so it's a serious thing we're talking about. The last thing I want to say is that the Labour Inspectorate's people have been living in a turbulent time, which we cannot be familiar with to bid employees who have to make a top performance. At present there are 92 employees in the Labour Inspectorate who do not know whether they have been bought or sold because there are no clear political indications that they should not be fired. They are at risk of a light bill this summer, if there is no money, and I think that is quite, quite unacceptable. In this context, I would also like to point out that there are a great many new employees in the Labour Inspectorate who need continuing training. We really need to give it a proper boost so that we can raise the quality so that people get better and have better capacity when they're out, and we do this first and foremost by offering further training for our employees in the Labour Inspectorate. If we do this together with a freer choice of methods, I think we can get a much, much more effective supervision out of our work in the Labour Inspectorate. But, of course, we can support the two small amendments that are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101106	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101108	Thank you. I mean, if you're gonna believe in Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl, there is no Labour Inspectorate left. What I mentioned in my speech was that this holistic supervision has led to several reviews in the construction industry. I hope we can agree on that. That is what I was commenting on, and on that basis I think it is sensible that we should allow for more holistic supervision so that it is not based on the risk-based alone. But, of course, I agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that there must also be a risk that you get a visit from the Labour Inspectorate of course. But we do not have any suggestion that there should be. So I don't really understand the big disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101219	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101220	We agree with the latter, and we also agree that there has been a temporary boost in the construction sector precisely because of a campaign and a lot of talk about the serious problems in this area. And it is true that we must do something about that. But that doesn't change the fact that the instructions and reactions in general from the Danish Labour Inspectorate have gone from 23,000 to 17,000 from 2015 to 2018. Now I've just taken this period, and probably the number is bigger if you take it further back in history, but these are the numbers that are quite fresh. I think it's been three weeks since we got them from the minister. That is why I am saying that we can temporarily take up a single industry, and we must do so, because there are dangerous industries. There are some industries that are more dangerous than others, and that is why we also have to run campaigns on them for some periods. Construction is one of the sectors where agriculture is another. However, there is a real decrease in the number of orders in the Labour Inspectorate's work over the last 4-5 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101322	There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101330	Like the previous rapporteurs, the Liberal Alliance naturally agrees with this bill. It is, as has also been said by everyone who has been on the platform before me, that we must, of course, do what we can to ensure a better, safer working environment out there. If it turns out that the experimental system that was set in motion has had positive effects, then it is common sense to go further along that path. I think it's interesting to hear what Mr. Christian Juhl mentions here from the platform, about freedom of method. There is something a little strange about this being something that needs to be regulated from here. I think that is a good point, which I would like to take into account: why is that? For of course, our starting point is probably in line with that of most others, namely that it is better to assess out among professionals and not here among politicians. So I actually thought that was a good point. However, the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101443	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101449	Thank you very much. The alternative also supports a more holistic supervision, especially as the law is based on a successful trial which replaces a risk-based supervision which has had its problems. However, we also assume, like the Socialist rapporteur, that samples are still being carried out, including in new industries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101519	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101531	Thank you. Like the other rapporteurs, the Radical Left supports the bill. Clearly, holistic supervision is an effective method and we are also looking forward to spreading the method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101543	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101549	Today we can put a small star in the calendar: Parliament is today discussing a proposal to replace rigid rules in an excelark with common sense. Of course, the Factory Inspectorate must respond to the reality that they meet at the construction sites and look at the overall working environment. So the most important thing is a healthy and safe working environment and not formalities. The Factory Inspectorate must be strengthened and given more freedom to handle the control of holistic supervision supplemented by random checks. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101625	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101634	Thank you for the many comments made by the rapporteurs and also for the broad support for the legislative proposal. It is an important priority for the government that the Factory Inspectorate's control efforts are effective and organised in a way that enables the Factory Inspectorate to address the health and safety problems around the country's construction sites in the best possible way, not least in relation to some of the industries in which we see that there are unfortunately too many accidents, serious accidents and even people being killed. With risk-based supervision, the Factory Inspectorate has a main type of supervision which focuses on companies with the greatest risk of occupational health and safety problems. Risk-based supervision works well in many ways and finds health and safety problems at one in four of the companies visited when looking across industries. But it's also important that it doesn't become a sleeping pillow. Although the latest figures from the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work show that the physical and psychological working environment in Denmark is progressing a little, it is my ambition that we always work for an even better working environment and also a more effective control effort on the part of the Danish Labour Inspectorate. There may be specific challenges in some sectors that require more targeted supervisory action, and a very concrete example is the construction industry, where too many employees face accidents at work and, unfortunately, also run the risk of being worn out. It is therefore gratifying that the new holistic supervision in the construction industry, initiated by the Working Environment Association as an experiment in November 2017, has proved to be extremely effective. The Factory Inspectorate has been significantly better at getting out in the right places and identifying problems in the working environment, so there are now material health and safety problems in the industry of almost half of the companies compared to 13 per cent previously. with the risk-based supervision. The Factory Inspectorate has also set in place dialogue meetings to help companies ensure a healthy working environment without accidents and wear and tear. I am absolutely satisfied that the new method of supervision makes a difference. The construction industry is an industry in which too many people get hurt or get worn down by bad working conditions, and that is precisely why the special effort is being made. We need to see an improvement in this area, which is why I am also pleased that we in the conciliation circle have agreed to take the new method of supervision forward, which the draft law then allows, and that is why there must be legislation. At the same time, the draft law should enable the risk-based supervision of other targeted efforts within specific business and industry groups to be carried out in the future when these efforts show positive results. And that's why I can tell Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen, who had few comments, that it will also be possible to carry out random checks and also follow up on any complaints that may come. That goes without saying. In addition, it will also be the case that if new initiatives are to be implemented, for example. This is something which, as a minister, I will of course discuss with the health and safety committee before starting them, and also before considering more permanent arrangements if it makes sense in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101936	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405101940	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's position on what the Liberal Alliance and I have mentioned, namely that we are giving greater freedom of method to those who are professionals and not to the Minister. Because here we have to allow the Minister to make an announcement which then regulates the Labour Inspectorate. But would it not be fine, as in other areas, to give them the tools they have at their disposal and then to say that we are taking the toolbox out, and then we are looking at the actual reality, and then we are using the best tool we think, based on our professionalism, is right in this situation or in this campaign or in this one over a few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102018	But for me, this isn't a question of either-or, it's both-and. It is perfectly possible to create the framework which has now been created, while, of course, the Factory Inspectorate must also have the opportunity to make efforts which are not determined by legislation. I think that, in fact, is already the case today. And in the current negotiations on working conditions that we have, there is no indication whatsoever that we should start to manage the Factory Inspectorate in a different way from what is the case today rather the opposite. After all, we are discussing how we can also ensure that we monitor where this makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102055	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102057	Thank you. I just think that we should give it the last push so that the Labour Inspectorate could actually work more freely with it, as they do, for example. do in other ways, i.e. in the assessment of when to require substitution in chemistry etc. I would like to hear what the Minister has thought about what methods of supervision might be considered if we are to have changed the scandalous development of the mental working environment at the moment, which has not been seriously corrected so that it is beginning to improve. The harmful effects of the working environment have dampened slightly, but we haven't found the right method in the psychological field yet to handle this. How does the Factory Inspectorate have to work there to get an effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102142	I think it was in this collection, or perhaps in the last session, that we followed up on the disagreement that existed, on the basis of what is called the Committee of Methods, where the Factory Inspectorate has now got some better tools, also in relation to the psychological working environment. So this is one of the things we have given the Labour Inspectorate the opportunity to do. In addition, we are also discussing how we can achieve a higher priority in precisely avoiding the problems that we see in relation to the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102217	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102219	Thank you. I shall be very brief. I just want to sign up to the Minister for the quick answer to my questions before. That's pretty much it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102228	Does that require a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102231	I'd like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102235	Good. Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102251	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102322	Thank you. When we talk about good employment efforts, there is only one thing I need to focus on: it is the individual unemployed and how exactly we get them going with the challenges that they are now facing. What efforts are needed, and how do we do this, and how do we do it best with the individual? This should preferably exceed everything else in a good employment effort and is, for me, absolutely the most important. With this agreement, we will make it easier for the job centres, for the cashiers and, above all, for the unemployed. That is why I would like to thank the conciliation parties, the parties and, above all, the Minister for good conduct and a good agreement. In order not to disappoint the Minister here on a Friday, I shall discuss what I think is not so good. I know the Minister expects that. I don't want him disappointed. It's a deal that takes up a lot. There are many things to address, but here I want to focus on some of the individual things that I also think are important. Firstly, it is extremely important for us to give the municipalities a freer framework so that they are given greater opportunity to help the individual in work. We have too many unnecessary rules, too many unnecessary things that employees have to deal with where they spend too much time, which can be spent even better on getting the individual on the job or training. At the same time, we must ensure that the individual still has rights in relation to good work and remove unnecessary rules and requirements for the individual unemployed. There are too many unemployed people who feel that they are doing something that makes no sense at all and that does not get them closer to a job, and that is not very motivating when you want a job. It is no secret that the municipalities in general have not done too well to meet the requirements of the law in this area. To ensure that they now do so, even if they are given more freedom, we have created a system where we can measure how well they do it. If some municipalities fail to meet these requirements, there will be consequences for these municipalities, which for me is only right and fair. This arrangement is in line with what I, as a Social Democrat, want, namely to give the municipalities and the employees more freedom. It is important but where there is freedom, there is of course also a responsibility. One of the things that we Social Democrats are very happy about and that we have spent a great deal of time giving selected cashiers the entire employment effort during the period of resignation and the first three months. I have no doubt for a second that this attempt will produce very good results, since the cashier knows exactly their area of expertise, they know the companies locally and they know the members, and so they can get the unemployed going more quickly and better. So I have huge expectations of this experiment and will of course follow it very, very closely. If we are to point out something that I would like to see taken out of the agreement, it is precisely that for some groups we are moving back the time of activation. Here I can mention in particular the young people and seniors, where some have their challenges. This proposal reduces employment by 300 people, and it is quite interesting and strange to see that it is precisely a very great desire in the government to create more employment when you go the opposite way. But having said that, I would just like to welcome the fact that we have a broad agreement that everything else just becomes super interesting and exciting to follow. I just cannot help asking myself the question that we always have to do in this Parliament: are we in favour of simplification? Can we do more for the individual? Can we make more simplifications for the benefit of the employment effort and for the benefit of the individual? My answer is that I simply have no doubt that we can. The great work we have now started must of course follow through, and we must continue to find other good measures for further simplifications, because I have no doubt that we can do so for a second. However, it is also important that we ensure that we do not just claim more rights here politically, just because there is a matter going on in the real world that we clearly think is foolish. We have to tell ourselves that too. We must show more confidence to the employees, we must show the municipalities, we must show more trust to the unemployed, we must show more confidence to the unemployed, but, of course, we must also make demands. With these words, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102751	Thank you. There are no brief remarks, so that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405102804	Thank you for that, President. This proposal is a simplification of the employment effort in the municipalities, and it has been under way for a long time. There has been a great desire for some of these crazy rules to be removed from the labour market. Who does not remember the great legislation that was put up on the palace square with some thirty thousand pages that were too advanced, and it was not easy to find out how to act in relation to it. Now we have got to grips with it and have gone far in the treatment and have met as many wishes as we could. We know that the National Association of Municipalities would have liked them to have been given even more freedom in relation to the legislation, but of course there are certain requirements we have to comply with. We have gone as far as we think we can, but I will not rule out, if there is a legitimate wish later on, when the law comes to work, that it may well be that some people will come and say that we really want to change this, and then of course we are also sensitive to it if that is possible. That's the way it's supposed to be. However, with the measures that have been taken in the simplification efforts here, we have come a long way, also with regard to the money-box attempt, where selected cashiers get the effort the first months of the period of notice and the first months after unemployment, where they then have to show that they can get unemployed into jobs. Because we cannot have employers saying that they cannot get labour and then a trade union saying that they have the labour force but do not get them out. Therefore, it is also important in this game that the job consultants are going to match the unemployed to the available jobs. They have to grab the employers and find out where the jobs are and what they are, the unemployed, like lack of qualification to challenge those jobs, and then we have to start making that match so that we can have as many vacancies filled as possible. There are also considerations in relation to the KL's request for ministerial approval. They were a little afraid of how things were going, but there we have ensured that the conciliation circle would, of course, have to approve the ministerial powers that lie there, otherwise they could not be implemented. They were a little afraid, depending on which Minister of Employment was sitting, what they could then be exposed to in a ministerial authorisation. But we have taken care of this, and we have taken account of the desire for a later entry into force of the law, which will then be 1 January. In other words, it will be a simpler effort and it will be more accessible to both the job consultants, but also to the citizens who are going to talk to municipalities in the job centre. It's gonna be simpler for them when they need help getting into a job. So all in all, I think it will be very difficult to get everything through here from the platform, because after all, it is a legislation of 629 pages that is very comprehensive, and then you should probably have an hour or so to go through it all. But all in all, the Danish People's Party is pleased with the agreement that has been made here and the simplification efforts we have achieved. As I said, we can see that it is well received outside, and now the municipalities must have time to implement the legislation and make it work in the best possible way that will benefit the individual citizen. It is one of the things that has been important to us who have been in the negotiations that account should be taken of the efforts that are being made towards citizens. It should not be the case that there are some things that are difficult to say that this does not happen, but we must reduce the risk of what feels that is not being taken into account and that they are not being listened to when they are in the municipalities. At least that's some of what's here. But now the municipalities will have the opportunity to prove that simplification will also help. It should also release resources that they can use to help citizens who need help. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405103241	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405103249	Thank you. The two draft laws implement agreement on a simplified employment effort that the government entered into with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party in August 2018. I would like to start by signing for the support of the parties to the agreement to what is actually quite an historic agreement. Finally, we have succeeded in achieving a thorough clean-up and simplification of employment efforts, and changing governments have been trying to do this in vain for years. The agreement will make a good difference to the unemployed and employees in the country's municipalities, so first of all, thank you very much to the contracting parties for taking responsibility for an effective and much simpler employment effort in the future. I am glad that the bill removes the many stumble threads that we have spread over the years to the unemployed, because it simply cannot be right and proper for people who are unemployed to lose their breath because they run into illogical rules and rigid requirements, so that we remove the rules and requirements now. It is also not particularly appropriate that job consultants and other employees in municipalities and cashiers spend more time putting crosses in schedules than helping the unemployed to work, so now we are giving much more freedom, of course, under the responsibility of organising an effort based on the individual unemployed. I think that is very sensible. We have a clear expectation that the agreement will free up resources in the municipalities so that the employees will have more time for what they stand up in the morning, namely to help the unemployed into work, and I think that these legislative proposals are the expression of common sense all the way through. This will make life easier for the unemployed, municipalities, cashiers and companies, and I look forward very much to following the effect, and we will, of course, follow it all very closely. So, on that basis, I must inform you that the Left supports the legislative proposals. I also welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately could not be here today, and say that they also support the two legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405103519	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405103531	Thank you, President. The big words were not spared when the parties behind this bill agreed to simplify employment efforts in August last year. It was described as an historic agreement that would remove bureaucracy and simplify the rules for the unemployed. We now find it difficult to see the great simplification, but we must hope that the transposition of the legislation will give the case workers a better tool so that we avoid some of the many mistakes that are being made today. In the eyes of ordinary citizens, it will probably be the same gibberish as it has always been, but I do not think the Minister has made it easy for them, for example. The Enhedslisten, who wants to find out what sensible simplification really is in this proposal, where there are some improvements for the unemployed and where the baby has been flushed out with the bathing water and used the opportunity to carry out some deterioration. We've gone over the hundreds of pages from that angle, and we're not quite done with it, so we'll probably come back with a number of questions. But here's what we found out so far. In the main law, L 209, there are both improvements and deteriorations for the unemployed. I will mention some of the improvements: the unemployed are no longer required to check job proposals every seven days; there is a new provision that the offer will always be adapted to the health of the citizen; self-employed and sick are given greater rights to offer more than today; the purpose of company practice is tightened up so that it points more towards ordinary employment, at least linguistically, but we cannot see the actual obligations of the employer; all target groups are now given the right to offer reading, writing, calculating and word-blind courses; one is exempted from being active job seekers if one has to start full-time or flexible work within six weeks, must take maternity leave or be transferred to early retirement, flexible or old-age pensions; there will be easier access for people without training to adult learning; there will be better access to grants for employers taking up pupils; and then the cashier will have the opportunity to take care of the insured unemployed for the first 3 months. They are clearly the best at that, but after all it only applies to selected boxes, and it is only an attempt. Why have the parties to the contracts not accepted the offer of the cashiers to do the job for the first six months? This may suggest that confidence in a-boxes is not quite as high as it is expressed. Unfortunately, however, there are also some deteriorations for the unemployed: the requirement to register CV information on Jobnet is now being extended to all target groups, and we fear that this will lead to more sanctions for vulnerable unemployed people, and we will be strengthened in this when we see the second bill; the obligation to book conversations at the job centre itself is being extended to most target groups; the obligation of the cashiers to appear in person at joint conversations is being removed; the obligation of the municipality to offer mentor support is being removed; and the obligation of the municipality to provide the vacancies is generally weakened; the influence of the trade unions and representatives of confidence on the rules governing the number of employees on special terms is also being weakened. Today, differences of opinion must be settled according to rules of professional law, but now the Minister is authorised to lay down the rules, and he is authorised to derogate from the additional employment requirement for specific target groups. If we look at the second legislative proposal, the impact legislation, we see that there is both bad and cinnamon here too. The improvements include: cash benefit recipients are entitled to quite short weekend stays abroad; the municipality must provide personal assistance for job-oriented training; deadlines are set for the municipality's position on the application for AT; and opportunities for continued use of AT during training are improved. The deterioration should mention that there will be an increased requirement for assessment if the unemployed person forgets self-booking of interviews, and associated sanctions for a number of vulnerable groups on cash assistance, resource progression benefit, rehabilitation and unemployment benefit. • Even sick persons must now register CV information on the job network, as well as jobable foreigners who do not necessarily master Danish very well must book conversations themselves; and then there is a limitation of refugees' opportunities for study and competence training. Summa summarum, when it is all implemented, there are probably not many unemployed people who will notice anything about simplification. They will have to deal with virtually the same number of conversations, and they will be subject to the same suspicion, whether they are now available and the same threat of being withdrawn into cash benefits or cash benefits. In some areas, the digitalisation requirement and the sanctioning of vulnerable groups are tightened up. This is worrying, because in the tail of this bill there will be a new so-called simplification of the sanctions regime in the autumn, which has also been put in place for tightening up. Nor has the hamster wheel been upset, where the unemployed are sent out as free workers in business practice, because it will be even stronger. The Minister has not concealed the fact that he wants the municipalities to turn down what the individual unemployed needs, namely guidance and qualification, and turn up what the employer wants, namely free labour in the form of work experience. The so-called debureaucratisation is above all an increased freedom for municipalities to decide for themselves how much help they will give to the unemployed. It's fine in the best of all municipalities... freedom under responsibility is really good. However, the money has to keep up with the task of solving satisfactorily for the unemployed and for all of us, and we have to see that the municipalities are under severe economic pressure in these years. This has been provided by changing governments with a tight financial framework and a restructuring of the State reimbursement to the municipalities' social welfare costs, so that it will be much more expensive for the individual municipality. On top of that, the government and the Danish People's Party have removed the state reimbursement for the employment effort. Since this government has come into existence, or as long as Mr. Knox... Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been prime minister, the government has cut 1.4 billion. kr. In the case of the municipalities' assistance to the unemployed, this corresponds to more than 2 000 full-time jobs. And now the government expects that debureaucratisation will free up additional funds that can be used to help the unemployed. We may well see that, but there is no guarantee whatsoever that the money will then be spent on the unemployed, given the economic pressure on the municipalities. Therefore, there is every reason to fear that the new freedom for municipalities will be used in particular to save on the efforts of the vulnerable unemployed, who are furthest away from the labour market. In order to cover up this criticism, it is now proposed that the Minister can put the municipalities under administration if they do not meet a number of performance targets and focus targets. As I see it, the municipalities will be measured by the quantitative number of conversations and whether the unemployment rate goes up or down. Will we then punish the municipalities that have many long-term sickness and the long-term unemployed and not any labour market that will accept them? This is to be feared when we look at the new rules on systematic supervision and stricter supervision of municipalities. And then we are concerned that it is left to the Minister to determine the parameters on which the municipalities are to be assessed. Shifting employment ministers have promised that they would run a bulldozer through the employment system, and to that I have to say that that is still needed. The system still oozes away from distrust of the unemployed. The unemployed have still not been given any stronger rights to what they most need: the right to ordinary jobs, the right to training that can strengthen their opportunities in the labour market, the right to rapid clarification of their situation and the right to say no to meaningless activation and business practices. So our overall assessment of this bill is that we cannot support what it is here, and unfortunately, on the basis of the reports that have already come from conciliation parties, we do not have the great hope that it will be possible to correct the errors in the committee procedure. But you probably know Enhedslisten well enough to know that we will try to do that anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405104347	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405104400	These two legislative proposals that we are now discussing translate that agreement into a simplification of the area of employment. It is, of course, an agreement that we, like the previous rapporteurs, apart from the Enhedslistens, are very pleased with. It's a deal that hasn't been easy to make. I think it was sir. Hans Andersen from the Left, who said that previous employment ministers have tried but that they have not succeeded. It is not surprising that it has not succeeded because it is a very difficult exercise. So much legislation has been put into legislation in this area that even for experts in this area it is a difficult exercise to find out, because when you turn somewhere, it affects a lot of other places. So how can we simplify and at the same time maintain some of the good intentions of the Act on Active Employment? However, we have now taken a huge step, and from this I should also like to thank the Minister for his perseverance and, of course, all the parties that have been involved in the process. It is positive that we remove some of the unnecessary bureaucracy and rigid rules that prevent the skilled employees from helping the unemployed in jobs and taking the breath away from the unemployed. So the Liberal Alliance, of course, supports these two laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405104528	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405104534	Thank you very much. As some of the other rapporteurs have said, there are a number of improvements to the employment system in this proposal, and it is tempting to vote for it on the basis of the policy of small steps, the policy of small improvements. However, in the alternative, we feel that by doing so we are marking out all the rest of an employment effort based on coercion, control and administration, and this goes against the alternative's vision of freeing the unemployed, freeing the case workers and freeing the whole employment system. In Finland there has just been an attempt on cash aid without counterclaims, where there was a group no longer subjected to coercion and a control group which was still subjected to coercion in the employment system. There were equal numbers in work from each group. The difference was that those who were not subjected to coercion felt better. In Denmark we have had an experiment in Kalundborg, where the 100 most vulnerable citizens for two years were no longer subjected to coercion; they could come if they wanted to, and they could actually stay away. There were twice as many people in meetings with the case workers. It was 60%. in activation • voluntary activation • in Kalundborg during the period compared with 30 per cent. at national level, where it was forced. So there are more and more indications that we can get rid of the entire forced regime in the employment system. We can simply delete it and let it be replaced by a voluntary system that offers people to get on their feet and get healthy and get help getting to work. Getting on your feet and getting well does not belong in the Ministry of Employment; it belongs in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health and the Elders. It is possible to get help to get to work in the Ministry of Employment. In the alternative, we want cash benefits without counterclaims, we want cash benefits without counterclaims. We are sure that unemployment is not the fault of the unemployed. Unemployment is part of the market economy. People don't work because we force them to. It may well be that if we set everyone free, there are some people who do not want to work maybe a few, but I am sure that unemployment will never be so low that we will need them. That is why we must set the unemployed free, and we must give the case workers their responsibility to support the unemployed. We must give the case workers and the public front workers the opportunity to use their professional skills with the unemployed instead of remotely controlling them and forcing them to run one size fits all-solutions for a lot of people who are incredibly different. In the alternative, we call it going from system to relationship welfare. Here, the case workers ask questions relevant to the situation of each unemployed person and organise the support on the basis of the individual responses of each unemployed person. Right now, many unemployed people are experiencing great humiliation. The unemployed are deprived of their social rights. People who have worked half a life or a lifetime suddenly experience being a number in the queue in the employment system and have been deprived of their authority and are forced to do a whole lot of things that many often think are completely meaningless, and thus they are going to run a parallel fight against the system. The alternative will set the system, the unemployed and the case workers free, so that the unemployed can regain responsibility for their own lives and thus restore dignity to their lives, restore decency to their lives and restore their social freedoms to their lives. It cannot be that, just because we are at the muff, some who have work, some who do well in society, we have the right to take social freedoms from people just because they become unemployed. In the alternative, we are sure that if people are allowed to say no to meaningless offers, get their lives back, get their authority back and get their will back, they will much, much more say yes to things that are relevant to them, and when people say yes of their own will, they say yes in a much more powerful way. I'm sure it will bring more people on their feet and into work. So we must abolish the compulsory regime in the employment system and make the offers in the employment system so good that people say yes to them without being forced to do so. And it costs money? Yes, it costs money, it costs money, so we can appropriately spend the billions that we are currently spending to force people around the employment system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105012	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105015	I am well aware of the attitude of the alternative to employment in general. Now I attached myself to Mr. Torsten Gejl's remarks about the inevitability of the unemployed here, so I want to hear what the alternative's position is about now trying to give the cashiers, who are very close to the members and who are, of course, owned by the members themselves, the opportunity to play a role.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105038	I think that is clearly one of the good things in the proposal. While this bill was being drafted, I tabled a motion for a resolution in the Folketing to make a real daily allowance without counterclaim attempt. As far as I remember, the SF did not vote for it. But it was simply a matter of giving the cashiers themselves much more the opportunity to service the unemployed, i.e. to set them free. And there were several cashiers who had my cashier, for example, even Magistrenes A-kasse, who wanted to move the employees they used to use for coercion and control over in servicing the unemployed. There's a lot of interest in this. So, yes, this tiny step mentioned by the rapporteur would be fine, but in relation to the opportunities that exist and which I myself have stood on this platform and proposed, it is a very, very small step.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105131	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105132	I understand that the cashiers and those who own the cashiers actually think it's a big step, but Mr. Torsten Gejl to know much better than the a-boxes that are very happy that you are now trying to do so. But I would like to narrow my question to Mr. Torsten Gejl in. So here is a step forward, and there is probably a step forward in relation to how we are now defining business practices. So what I want to end up asking the rapporteur is: isn't this law better than the old one? So shouldn't the alternative vote in favour? So not in relation to where you want to go, which contains some very big visions that you can agree with or disagree with, but in relation to this one being better than the old one? Can't I get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105211	Yes. If SF wants to sell its principles and vote for so much coercion and so much control in favour of so few improvements, then SF is welcome to it, but the alternative does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105230	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105243	We are implementing these legislative proposals with the agreement on a simplified employment effort. There are many components of the legislative proposals, as has also been shown in the debate. We are radically pleased with the overall approach, and I am particularly pleased with the four-year attempt to ensure that selected cashiers get in touch with benefit recipients during the period of notice and during the first three months of unemployment. I think that'll make a difference. I am also convinced that the increased freedom of the municipalities will provide better employment efforts and that we will be able to better monitor the impact of the efforts of the municipalities. Hopefully, the law will remove some bureaucracy. A review of the law should make it easier to read the law. So Radicals naturally support the legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105329	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105337	It is about reducing the gap between the unemployed and jobs. The present law is completely incalculable for all. No one is able to understand the laws, regulations and regulations in the field of employment, either the municipalities, the cashiers or in so far as the unemployed person is close to being able to understand the laws, regulations and regulations in the field of employment. That's why it's an independent purpose of this bill to simplify and modernise the law. Are we in the finish line? Not at all it is still very extensive, but it is a little more manageable than the old one. There are two things in the bill that we are particularly pleased with in the SF. One is that in future, selected cashiers will have to take over the contact process for their own members during the first three months of unemployment. That way the bill breaks through the wall. One could easily have an ambition that it was many more A-boxes for much longer, but we will break through the wall so that we can now get in experience, which I am sure will show us that precisely the A-boxes can handle the task for the benefit of the unemployed, the companies and society. The second improvement we are satisfied with is the tightening up of company practice. When enterprise practices are used precisely and only in situations where you actually lift the unemployed and bring them closer to jobs, it can actually be a good tool. It can be a kind of training course into the labour market, but only when it is used quite specifically and precisely in relation to the individual person and in relation to the specific company. Unfortunately, we have seen many examples of hopeless internships and abuse of trainees. Then I am glad that I can quote the main organisation of the trade union movement, which says that the FH basically welcomes the fact that the use of enterprise practices is being carried out with the aim of ensuring that the unemployed person is to obtain ordinary employment, which is the result of the enhanced scope clause for enterprise practice in relation to the comments made in the Late Bill. On the other hand, I am quite sure that in future it will be our job to follow this area closely, because it should also be very happy to get through out there in the municipalities' cooperation with the companies. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105606	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs, so it is up to the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405105618	Thank you for the very fine rapporteur speeches that have been made today. It is, in many ways, a historic day when we have these two first reading legislative proposals. There is no doubt that changing governments have had a desire to settle with the bureaucracy and the many rigid procedural requirements that have been in the field of employment. That is why we must also go back to 2003, because since 2003 there has not been a new main law on active labour market policy. On the other hand, year by year rules have become more and more difficult to apply and understand, and more than 60 times the law has been amended as a result of agreements and reforms. KL's former chairman Martin Damm has even said: "We should put a match to everything and start over. I also believe that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Finn Sørensen has mentioned that Enhedslisten believes that you should run a bulldozer through the entire employment system. It's happening now. We draw a line in the sand, erase all the old stuff and start over. I think that is basically very big. Thus, we have paved the way for a simple and more effective employment policy and effort for the benefit of our unemployed, our companies, the Danish municipalities and, not least, the country's cashiers. After all, the government expects the agreement to free up resources in the municipalities for, among other things. helping more unemployed people into the labour market. Similarly, companies also get much easier to take an active part in the employment effort when more than 180,000 applications from companies for wage subsidies and business practices are automated. The bill translates into a total of 31 initiatives designed to create equal rules across target groups and fewer and simpler process requirements, as well as to improve and expand the digital solutions in the employment effort. And let me just mention a few key initiatives. Firstly, the rules governing contact processes are simplified and made more effective. There will be one common requirement: everyone must have at least four job interviews during the first 6 months, and after 6 months it is up to the job centre in cooperation with the unemployed person to assess what is needed. It is also important to make it clear here that the citizen is always entitled to a job interview if he or she asks for it. The new requirement for talks is based on solid knowledge that conversations at the beginning of the unemployment period work. Secondly, the rules on the right and obligation to provide benefits and cash benefits are simplified. There will be only one fixed requirement: one offer at the latest after 6 months of unemployment. This should give the municipalities and the individual caseworker the opportunity to give the unemployed a more individual and adapted effort. Instead of being offered to the unemployed because there is a requirement for activation at certain times, the unemployed are now being offered offers in the future, which hopefully will make more sense. And here it is important to make it clear that greater freedom for the municipalities must not in any way mean that the unemployed are left to passive action and therefore action without effect. Historically, we have to say that, even with current legislation, many are left to passive action. This has been revealed by various parliamentary politicians through questions. I guess one of those who is most successful in this is sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen, who is present today, and Mr. Finn Sørensen has asked numerous questions about the lack of effort on the part of the recipients of benefits, the lack of effort on the part of the recipients of cash benefits, despite restrictive legislation today. That is why I have spent quite a lot of time in the last two years writing loving letters to the municipalities with a call and also a clear signal that the law must be observed. We can then see from the material that has also been sent to the Danish Parliament earlier this week that it has an effect when writing to the municipalities. The municipalities, which have been very poor, then begin to make greater efforts. But it is, of course, a declaration of bankruptcy for municipal self-government, and that is why I also understand those who may have some concern about the fact that the municipalities are now being given too much freedom. This is also the reason why the legislative proposals introduce much stronger monitoring and follow-up of the results and efforts of the municipalities. Municipalities that do not fulfil their responsibilities are subject to stricter follow-up and can ultimately be placed under administration with centrally fixed requirements for the efforts of the Minister of Employment, which is also a break, and which I actually expect a great deal of not using that tool, but that the tool is present in the toolbox. Because it is precisely a very strong preventive tool. Thirdly, the rigid requirement for the unemployed to apply for a job in the last 6 weeks is removed, regardless of whether you are about to start a new job, maternity or pension. It is certainly for the benefit of citizens who do not have to look for jobs that they are not interested in, and it is for the benefit of companies that do not have a lot of job applications from people who are going to start in another job in a short time or, for example, in another job. on maternity leave or pension. And that's probably exactly the problem I'd think I've gotten the most inquiries about from Danes who have written to me and asked why you have this rule. The rule that has been in force and that applies for the rest of 2019 is removed with the bill, and then this model is introduced so that it is no longer the case. It is also proposed that the legislative proposals should enter into force on 1 January 2020, i.e. 1⁄2 years later than was planned. This is done in order to comply with a request from among others. KL to get better time to implement the new rules and get IT support in place. Furthermore, we are giving the country's cashiers an opportunity to become a greater part of the active employment effort. A 4-year experiment is being made, and this week we have published the A-boxes that have been selected to be part of the experiment. I expect a lot of that. It is no secret that the Left has not necessarily had in mind that it should end here. However, through constructive negotiations with the parties of the Folketing and a broad majority, we have found a model for which I can fully vouch and which I look forward to now being unfolded, where the cashiers actually get the effort from the unemployment period, i.e. usually the first month, and in addition 3 months into the unemployment period. We are going to follow this closely, and I actually expect the country's cashiers to carry out the task satisfactorily. Mrs Laura Lindahl mentioned that this has been a long process. That is quite correct, I can confirm that. The government came up with its proposal in November 2017, and now we are here in April 2019 and are discussing the bill. This is not least due to a sea of questions, almost a year of political negotiations, but with the result that there will now be legislation which fundamentally changes employment policy. I would also like to thank the many municipalities that have contributed to the many employees around the country's municipalities who have drawn my attention to issues along the way, when I have been around, and not least to the many employees in the Ministry of Employment and the board called STAR, the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, who have taken part in making this bill, which is one of the largest legislative proposals that has been made in the Ministry of Employment's area over the past many years, and which has involved very, very many people. Thank you for the broad support of the Danish Parliament's parties. Thank you to Finn Sørensen for a good speech, where you almost thought it was a ministerial speech that was read out because Mr. Finn Sørensen went through the many improvements there are. I cannot, in fact, disagree with the improvements, sir. Finn Sørensen mentioned. There is then a political disagreement as to whether there may be any deterioration. However, thank you for the constructive approach. The alternative, of course, had such a slightly alternative approach to the policy, and it illustrates very well the difference between the alternative and the SF in this case. It is very rare that I have the opportunity to congratulate Mr. Karsten Hønge, but now it is of course also Friday, so why not take the opportunity to do so. Sir. Karsten Hønge actually had a relatively constructive approach to it. I understand that the SF doesn't think everything in this deal is good, but sir. Karsten Hønge aims to improve current legislation. And that's why it was actually a little too bad to hear Mr. Torsten Gejl's speech, which had a little bit of hanging emulation here on a Friday, because there is no doubt that this is a clear improvement on where we have been. Well, it's rare to say that sir... Karsten Hønge is more happy than Mr. Torsten Gejl, but that is the case with this bill, and I am actually somewhat surprised by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110459	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110503	Thank you. I believe that when there is a legislative proposal of this kind and all other legislative proposals at all, you have to do a nuanced review of it and assess both pluses and minuses, and then you have to do your job on the basis of an overall assessment. I would just like to say here, in the case of the Enhedslisten, that if we can remove what we see as deterioration in committee, then we will vote in favour of the bill, even though we are still dissatisfied with the financial framework. It is, after all, another majority that has implemented it. Then I would just like to say to the Minister, if it were directed at Enhedslisten, that there are some who are worried about giving the municipalities more freedom: I think I got it pretty clear: more freedom is good. But there are two prerequisites that must be met if the municipalities are to be given more freedom. One is that the unemployed must be provided with some rights, some clear rights for offering ordinary work and upgrading, guidance and training, and then we must ensure that the money goes with it. In fact, I will undertake to be able to write a simplification of the employment legislation that can be dealt with on an A4 page or two, which says sparto to this still away, I would say, very, very complex monstrosity that has now been introduced to us. So it's just to clarify our position on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110625	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110628	Thank you. In other words, it has to be said that with the current legislation, which is very detailed, it seems to me that it can be concluded that changing governments have not been good enough to keep the municipalities in their ears to guarantee citizens' legal certainty. We can, of course, look at the arbitrariness of the efforts being made around the country's municipalities. There is, of course, a reason why, unfortunately, a number of municipalities have been asked to explain to me their lack of effort both in the area of unemployment benefits and also in the area of cash benefits. So, in fact, I believe that legal certainty is now being strengthened with regard to the individual citizen. I fully agree that, as a public authority, we are set to help the citizens, in other words, the public is there for the sake of the citizens and not the other way around. It must also be said that, in relation to the economic priority, we know only from the municipalities that now choose to invest, that there is a really, really good idea and, apart from the fact that it is a good idea for human beings, it is also an economic good idea. It was only here a few days ago again underlined with the investment strategy that the municipality of Brønderslev has now made to their cash aid recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110732	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110734	Thank you. I agree, of course, if we are to put it in such a way that changing governments have not been good at keeping the municipalities in their ears, and that is also why Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal that we will be dealing with next week, namely that a so-called clarification guarantee should be introduced for cash aid recipients. This is again about our different views on this, because we believe that we should provide the unemployed with rights that they can stand on with the municipality, and then the government must ensure that the municipalities have the necessary finances to fulfil those rights. And there I see, many times when changing governments scold the municipalities, because they have all been good at that every time there is a problem, it has always been busy saying that it is also the municipalities who cannot find out that the problem is self-inflicted because during the same long period the municipalities have been starved financially. And then it can be a little difficult for them to meet those requirements unless they want to cut in some other areas, and that is the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110844	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110848	Nor do we agree today on the economy of the municipalities, I would say to Mr. Finn Sørensen. The truth is that in the municipalities that work with an investment strategy red as blue, there is no difference, and unfortunately there is also a noticeable effect. It is there in Aabenraa, it is there in Silkeborg, it is there in Hjørring, and it is there in Brønderslev, because it can be seen that the holistic, handheld effort helps to ensure that you get a great many people helped beyond being on passive transfer. It's a good idea for the individual, it's a good idea for the municipality's economy, and it's a good idea for the companies. So I do not accept that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110925	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405110929	Thank you. Now, in the alternative, we are very pleased that it is the SF that is being praised by a Left Minister when it comes to developing employment policy. I am not going to speak on behalf of the SF, but I can say that in the alternative, we want to get rid of the entire compulsory regime. What I want to ask is what impression it makes on the Minister that, for example, there is. is an attempt in Finland, where there are two large groups of citizens, and one group is a whole year exposed to the normal forced labour system, the other is not, and in both groups there are equal numbers of people who get to work in both groups. And those who are not under compulsion say themselves that they are getting significantly better. What does the Minister think of such results?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111013	I think I will have to get much better acquainted with the Finnish model, or the Finnish experiment, than is the case now. I wonder if it would be a good idea for me to pass on my remarks to Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl about what I think about that attempt? 'Cause I think you're gonna have to go deeper than where mr. Torsten Gejl has been so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111035	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111039	But for a bourgeois-liberal minister, is it not tempting to consider the possibility of whether people really want to work without being forced? In other words, unemployment is part of the market economy; it will always be here for as long as there is a market economy. So it is not the fault of the unemployed that unemployment exists. Could the Minister not flirt a little with the idea that people might really want to work without forcing them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111108	I think that one of the saddest things people can do is a lack of interest. And if it is the case that you do not get guidance and help to get a job or get into the labour market, become part of the education system, then there is, unfortunately, some people who are going to be in an unhappy situation. One can look at the over 28,000 people who have been in the cash assistance system for more than 5 years. It is nothing less than a human disaster. And that is why we should not call on anyone to be on passive transfer. It seems to me that the most important task as a government or a member of the Folketing is to ensure that as many people as possible become part of the working community. And that's what I work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111146	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111215	The debate is open. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111227	Thank you. It is precisely these days that we are discussing how to ensure a better working environment in the future, both in relation to the way in which the Factory Inspectorate is to work, but also in relation to how improved work at work can counteract wear, injuries and accidents. Prevention is extremely important. We can see from the figures that far too many people are still being killed, are being subjected to a serious accident, are being injured or are being worn out at their work, and when the damage has been done, it is important that it is recorded so that we can be better at preventing and the injured person gets a quick treatment in the system. Those ideas were also behind the agreement on the occupational injury system that was reached very broadly here in the Danish Parliament in 2003 and up to 2013 we saw a degree of recognition of approx. 75% in relation to occupational injury reports. However, when the Supreme Court changed the concept of occupational injury in 2013, so that the damage passed by itself was no longer covered, yes, we got the trouble, if I may say so. Completely unintentionally in relation to the political agreement in 2003, the degree of recognition declined dramatically. In relation to the bill we are now debating, the law must be brought to an end and amended so that we can return to the conditions we had in 2003 in relation to the concept of occupational injury. We in the Social Democratic Party are very satisfied with this, both because a work injury is once a work injury, whether it passes by itself or not, and it must be registered as such so that it can be included in the preventive work, but also because it allows for the cost of medicines and for treatment. In addition, the law also amends a number of provisions so that the injured person will experience a faster and more flexible procedure. We are satisfied with that too. Then there are some technical changes to the law in addition to that, but all in all it is a good proposal supported by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111436	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111446	Thank you for that, President. After all, this is a bill which means that you get a job injury at the workplace, so it is also reported and recognised as an occupational injury. We have always had the feeling that if you get something, you have to make sure you report it, but now it is also recognised as an accident at work. It may be that it turns out that it is not really something and that it goes back to itself, but if later it turns out that there is still something after the damage that has been done, then it can also be reinstated because it has been declared and recognised as an accident at work. This is positive for workers who are injured, and it also means that there should be no doubt about it in companies when there has been an injury. Then you know it's under control. It may be that the matter is simply put aside, that nothing happens and that it can be put in a file for itself, and if, as I have said, it turns out it may be after 1 year or 2 years that there is still something after this damage, then you have the case which you can just take forward. So this is a positive step. But we're still missing something. The Minister had promised that we would start a new work injury reform this spring. This has not happened at all, and it is one of the things for which I would like to blame the Minister a little, that is, when there was talk of us having to make a new law on occupational injury, and that has not happened. Then we'll get a little patch on some of this, and that's fine, but maybe it's not always that you have to push it to after a choice like this. But that is what the Minister has decided. Then let us just hope that after the elections we can start negotiating a new legislation on occupational injury, because the one we have now is from 2003 and may well need some renewal. So I also assume that the future government will address this as one of the first things we need to have in place after an election. But time must show what a future government wants. I'm not gonna be able to decide that here. But of course the Danish People's Party supports this bill, as it is a good move.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111715	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111721	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the details of the draft law. The Work Damage Protection Act has not been fundamentally amended since 2009, which is why we have now taken the initiative to take a look at the law and whether we can update it to make it simpler and more up-to-date. Unfortunately, there have been unfortunate aspects to existing legislation. As it is right now, the law is widely interpreted against the original intention of legislation, and we cannot accept that. That is why we are clarifying the legislation so that more people will be able to recognise their occupational injuries more easily, and this also means that in future the law will have to recognise temporary injuries as occupational injuries. We believe that this gives more security to the Danes. At the same time, we simplify the procedure so that it becomes simpler and more rigorous. We do, among other things. by allowing the social security system to re-evaluate decisions in appeal proceedings rather than allowing citizens to be dragged through a longer procedure. The draft law contains a number of additional elements which contribute to a more modern and up-to-date occupational injury insurance law. However, I would like to conclude by saying that the amendment of the law must also lay the foundations for the results we hope to find in the negotiations on a better working environment. Here, the draft law will ensure that there is better scope for more coordinated and coherent action in the future. With these words, I would like to say that the Left will vote in favour of the bill, and I welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately could not be here today, and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111901	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405111916	There are still 60,000 people left every year who go to work and do not have the whole health in place when they go home. The Minister has repeatedly said that it must be possible to go to work without harming his health. Is it true that there is only three minutes left? Pia Kjærsgaard): Yes). Well, I'll have to hurry. There is still a long way to go before they get fair treatment, and this proposal, L 211, slightly corrects it. We would like to congratulate the Minister for Employment for listening to the hearings that work injury compensation should take precedence over product liability. May I add that the buttons were pressed a little wrong; there are 5 minutes, so just take it easy). I'll start over No, now I don't know.) No, no. But I have told you about the 60 000 people with injuries, and there I would have told you, if I had had time at that time, that at least 2 000 of them either die from an accident or from the consequences of occupational injuries. That is quite unacceptable, but at least they must all have proper treatment in the system, which is why it is good that we have brought in these corrections. A huge scandal was taking place, and it was only thanks to a awake person at Dansk Metal that it was discovered that in fact in a bedding it was stated that product liability should take precedence over work injury. Anyone who works a little bit with this system can imagine how incalculable it would be if you had to run product liability cases before you could even be allowed to run a work injury case. It really would have put a bomb under the system. It is good that it was discovered, and thanks both to Dansk Metal for finding the error, but also to the Minister for that he looked after it. There are some important improvements in the bill, but also some deteriorations or some possible deteriorations. It is a good thing that there is a more relaxed definition and extension of the concept of accident, but we should probably go all the way and delete the comments about a small limit, as stated in several of the consultations. We hope that the changes in legislation will result in far more accidents at work being recognised as occupational injuries. We are pleased that a three-month period is now being reinstated for the recognition of accidents at work. It is very important for victims to be able to get their occupational injury quickly recognised. This gives the injured person peace of mind, and this means, among other things, that they can quickly recover the costs of medicine and treatment. It is also good that, in re-evaluation of complaints, labour market security must now take a position on all aspects of their decision and can therefore change both actual, judicial and discretionary errors. This will mean a shorter duration of proceedings in appeals cases where the occupational security of the labour market supports the injured party. However, we think it is wrong to abolish the longer time limit for complaints by the victim who is staying abroad. Not everyone can work digitally. The Labour Market Insurance still sends away a number of physical letters, and when you think about how long it takes to have a letter sent to your aunt in Jutland, because the postal service is in the distressed state as it is at the moment, then the short shorter period of complaint can cause problems. We ask the Minister to reconsider this, because it is not reasonable to believe that everyone has a computer available and can work digitally. Finally, we are opposed to the fact that the Ankestyrelsen now has to make administrative decisions in industrial injury cases. This undermines the influence of laymen and reduces the legal certainty of citizens. It is our experience that many occupational injury cases are far from simple cases and that these are largely discretionary decisions where it is reassuring that the appointed members are involved in making the decision. Sir. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). This would be a huge advantage for the victims and would be very sensible in relation to the decisions taken. In 2013, there were 76,000 recognised accidents at work. We should like to get that figure back on the table, because that is what the law was intended to do in 2017 was less than 60%, so there is a job to be done, and I am aware that we need to look at it critically and follow the legislation and see if it is moving in the right direction. I expect that those who vote for this proposal will also help to achieve the necessary adjustments if they fail to do so. Sixty thousand is all, too many people who are affected by occupational injuries, the figure should preferably be down to 0, and in particular the fact that 2 000 of them die is not an acceptable state in a modern society such as ours, where we should be able to ensure that all jobs were safe and health-friendly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112412	Thank you. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112418	Once again, we can see that the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten are in complete agreement: 60 000 people who are affected by an occupational injury are far too many, and 2 000 die are also insane in 2019. It is clear that we need to get this down, and I think it is very good that we are now having a look at the legislation in this area. It hasn't been modernised since 2003, and this is an area where there's development, so it's clear that we're going to have to follow it much closer forward, too, so we're going to get this figure down. Of course, we support the draft law and also support the intention to follow this area more closely forward, so as to ensure that any accidents at work which may occur are not so troublesome for those who are affected, but also that the number itself is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112528	Thank you. And we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112534	Thank you. I think the other rapporteurs have described so well how this proposal creates value in the area of occupational injury. All in all, this is a positive proposal which the alternative supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112544	Thank you. The next one is sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112554	Thank you. The proposal recognises occupational injuries as accidents at work, and that is a much needed improvement. There are also other elements in the bill, and all in all, the Radical Left also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112612	Thank you. And then it's sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112619	Anything, too many people get hurt at work and must be dragged for the rest of their lives with damage to their health. It is the duty of society to hold hands under those people. That is why it can be surprising to see that the 2013 Supreme Court ruling brought about some deterioration in two areas, both in terms of recognition and in terms of suitability. We also saw that the degree of recognition fell dramatically. It is grotesque, then, that a law can be interpreted so much against the intentions of the law, and that needs to be corrected. I can see from the 3F hearing that there is concern that the current regulatory practice for suitability is being maintained too much. I believe that in the work of the committee, at least from the SF, we should ask ourselves how we can be sure that we will not end up where the draft law here becomes too meaningless and illusory, as 3F writes to us that they think it is because we will not correct both the recognition and suitability criteria. But as it is now, the SF expects to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112734	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405112743	Thank you for the comments of the Danish Parliament's parties. I am pleased that we are now embarking on the modernisation of the area of occupational injury. Today we are taking the first steps towards creating a foundation for a more modern system of occupational injury for the benefit of those who have been injured in their work, as most rapporteurs have also mentioned. The government is proposing to relax the criteria for the recognition of accidents at work. This will ensure that any person who has suffered an accident caused by their work can in future be recognised as an occupational injury. At the same time, the injured person will experience more rapid clarification because recognition issues will be less complicated to assess with the new easing and because labour market security will be able to make independent decisions on recognition. This will mean that injured persons will no longer have to wait for the whole case of occupational injury to be closed before they receive an answer as to whether it is an occupational injury within the meaning of the law. This is important because rapid clarification is an essential condition for the recovery of one's life after one's injury as an injured person. In addition, a number of simplifications and updates have been proposed in the draft law, which together will contribute to a good and efficient and framework for occupational injury treatment in Denmark. There will be, for example: the implementation of proposals to improve the administrative and liquidity situation of occupational security in the labour market. The draft law provides for the possibility of charging charges in advance, as well as the possibility of borrowing short-term loans for example. to cover financial commitments between collections. Let me conclude by saying that there were also some comments about the importance of a more general reform of industrial injury. Those are the comments I share. I guess there was a loving touch on the cheek from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that it had not been possible to reach a political agreement on a labour damage reform here before an election. That is not to be concealed; I think you can say that in the open room of the Parliament: it was not good enough, of course, that there is so much else that has been delivered, which is really good, one owes it to say, because one can so much praise oneself. Having said that, however, one must also note that this area must be given a high priority, which is why I would also like to say that, regardless of who wins a parliamentary election, this is a shell task that needs to be resolved in the course of 2019. It also involves the social partners, and it involves, I believe, a difficult political debate. However, I think it is important to say to those who have to keep in mind that this is a priority both in terms of the duration of the proceedings and in terms of social security and, for that matter, also for those who are interested in whether this area has political attention. I have great political attention to this, but I have to say that we have not reached the goal of a comprehensive reform of labour damage. I hope we can do that by choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405113051	Thank you for that to the Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405113128	The next point requires a small refurbishing, so I would ask you gentlemen and that lady to find their seats first. Then we will resume the negotiations when you are in place and that also applies to the Minister. If those who wish to take part in the question debate are in place, I would like to continue the sitting. I would say that it is my immediate feeling that we will be able to deal with the debate so that we do not have to take a lunch break along the way. But of course it is the rapporteurs who decide how long or how little time we spend on the debate. The debate is free within [Sound Outlook]... I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 9 April 2019. First of all, Mr President, we need a explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten... the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405113344	Thank you, President. The question is: what can the Minister say about the evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs? After all, I have asked the Minister a number of times, most recently at a question debate on 9 November last year, when the Minister acknowledged that there were a number of points on which the reform was not in sight. On that occasion, the Minister said that he expected the evaluation to be concluded in February. Now we write on April 5th, and we still haven't heard anything. In general, noisy silence has been the hallmark of the conciliation parties, and hence the Minister, since the evaluation began more than a year and a half ago. In fact, we have not heard anything from the conciliation parties since spring 2018, when they put forward a proposal for a tiny legislative amendment that said that now the resources should be relevant and include a development perspective. Since then, there has been an increase in the number of early retirement grants. Whether this is due to the fact that the municipalities have captured the signal from the legislative change last June or whether it is a ketchup effect of completed resource cycles, or whether it is both, we do not know. However, as the Minister himself said, the new rules do not mean that more people are receiving early retirement. After all, we are still hearing about people with a very small ability to work, who are sent in countless work tests and then just one or more resource sequences in addition, before they can be set up for early retirement or flex jobs. There are many other problems with the reform that is seriously affecting people with chronic disorders and disabilities of different kinds. On top of their suffering they often experience that they meet with mistrust by the municipality and that, despite the doctors' warnings, they are often forced into courses that they cannot cope with and that they become more ill. They are rightly afraid of their future, frustrated and angry. It is high time for the conciliation parties to give concrete answers to the people who have been and are still being affected by this reform: some answers to those who often, contrary to the doctors' warnings, are sent out in one hopeless course after the other, which in many cases they are getting worse; to those who are denied early retirement, even if they have very little or no working capacity; to those who would like to have a flexible job at their present place of work but cannot get it because of the way the law is arranged; to those who go down in pay because they change from the flexible job they have had for many years, to a new one or who finds that they are getting a lower hourly wage than their colleagues; and to those who, on top of illness and disability, experience just getting poorer and, on top of that, experience suspicion at the job centre. Time's running out. In a moment, there will be parliamentary elections. Are the conciliation parties really going to meet the voters without having a solution to the many problems created by their reform? I look forward very much to this debate and to the reply of the Minister and the parties, in particular I look forward to having some concrete solutions on the table that we can discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405113653	You're welcome. And just to outline the new rules, which are not so new, but only so few months old, that there are still some who are surprised, I would say that it is happening that the Minister now has the opportunity to give an answer, and then we move on to brief remarks from the rapporteurs to the Minister, one brief comment per. rapporteur. Then we start the debate, and during the debate the rapporteur for the questioners first has the opportunity to speak, and then it is on a party order, and then the Minister has an opportunity to take the floor at the end of the debate. And if you want to say thank you for the debate or otherwise help to end it, you can, of course, take the floor in the second round, just as usual. Often it is the questioner who will politely say thank you in the end, but we will see that at that time. It's more to say the order, so you're on it. In other words, I now warmly welcome Denmark's Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405113748	Thank you. And thanks to Enhedslisten and thus Finn Sørensen for focusing on the evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. I remember very well the debate we had back in November 2018, where I can say, without compromising anyone, that Finn Sørensen was not present, not because Finn Sørensen would not be present, but because Finn Sørensen was ill at the time. But we did have an excellent debate, and I am quite convinced that Finn Sørensen followed it from home, almost live, or at least we have had the opportunity to see it afterwards. Has there been noisy silence on this question? I hope not, for then there is at least something wrong with my ears; of course, some will attack me too soon. But I have been in a host of consultations on this matter, and that is quite all right, because everyone can call for the consultations they want. So it is not because we have not discussed it here; it is not because organisations have not been invited to meetings; it is not because we do not want to deal with it. In fact, there has been a very good public debate, and so it is with major reforms, in other words, that they call for a great deal of discussion. There is no doubt that the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs has had consequences for many people and, as the evaluation showed, we are not in all areas, and that is why we have discussed improvements or clarifications on a regular basis here in the Parliamentary Assembly. However, the content of the evaluation and the initiatives which I believe it gives rise to has not changed since we last discussed it, namely in November. But before we come to the overall evaluation, I think we should remind ourselves of a few things. Because it was the case that we brought forward part of the evaluation. That is also what Finn Sørensen mentioned; it was a minimal improvement, I think he said. I do not agree with that in any way, because last spring we actually dealt with an issue in which the rules for granting early retirement and on-the-job training were clarified. After all, the evaluation also showed that in practice there were different understandings of which citizens could be granted early retirement without them having first been in the process of resource development. Some municipalities had interpreted the rules more strictly than others and also interpreted tighter than the intention of the political agreement back in 2012. With the legislative amendment that entered into force on 1 June 2018, we managed to address a very important area: the interface between resource progression and early retirement, so that citizens no longer get caught up in the confusion about the rules that were in place. And in my view there can be no doubt that the amendment of the law has worked and that we have ensured a real change of practice. Prior to the amendment of the law, early retirement was refused on the grounds that it could not be excluded that the ability to work could be developed in a process of resource development. It formed the subject of several consultations. With the new rules, it is now clear that a process of resource development is only relevant when it is realistic that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work in a process of resource development. Is that something that is only in my speech, or is it acknowledged by others? At any rate, I can say that, as a result of the amendment of the law, the Ankestyrelsen has repealed two decisions of principle, which described precisely the situation in which citizens should be in the process of resource development, simply because it could not be excluded that the ability to work could be developed. In December 2018, i.e. a few months ago, the Ankestyrelsen announced the new practice in a decision of principle. It states precisely what I have just said, namely that a process of resources is only relevant when there is a development perspective in relation to the ability to work. In the decision in principle, the Ankestyrelsen examines some specific cases that illustrate the new practice. The cases must help the municipalities in assessing when there is a development perspective, and not least when there is no development perspective. This is a very clear signal to the municipalities that a different practice must be adopted than in the past. The change of practice is also reflected in the latest decisions of the Ankestyrelsen. The Ankestyrelsen has dealt with a number of complaints in which a municipality has taken a decision before the amendment of the law entered into force, while the Ankestyrelsen has dealt with the complaints after the law came into force. Specifically, this has meant that a larger proportion of the cases in which citizens wanted early retirement, but were refused from the municipality, have been reversed or repatriated by the Ankestyrelsen. In addition, I have also noted that for example. the municipality in which we are now, the City of Copenhagen, is well in the process of adjusting the efforts in this area. In 2018, Copenhagen granted just over twice as many early retirement pensions as in 2017. There were 420 awards in 2017 and almost 988 in 2018. In fact, you have to go back to 2010, that is, several years before the reform, to find a year where Copenhagen has granted more early retirement than in 2018. The City of Copenhagen itself states that the amendment of the law is part of the explanation that they are now granting early retirement to more citizens. At national level, it can also be seen that there has been an increase in the number of citizens now receiving early retirement. In 2017, approx. 10,000 citizens granted early retirement, in 2018 it was 12,700, and we expect that the figure will also increase here in 2019. There is therefore every reason to believe that we have achieved what we wanted with the amendment of the law in this area, namely a situation in which those citizens who have no prospect of ever becoming part of the labour market are granted an early retirement pension. That is also what should mark a welfare society • no doubt about it • and therefore it was also good that we started that part of the discussion so early in the process. This leads me on to the overall evaluation of the reform. As I also said back in November 2018, overall, it shows that there are a large number of things that work well also of the things that had been decided but that there are also areas where the reform is not in goal. One of the things I am particularly sensitive to is the fact that overall citizen satisfaction is very high. Many citizens are satisfied with their progress, and this is true, regardless of whether the citizens are in resource stages, in flex jobs or on early retirement. The most satisfied citizens are those who receive early retirement or are given a flexible job. This also applies to flexible jobs with a few hours. Nearly nine out of ten are satisfied, while almost half of the citizens are satisfied in terms of resources. This tells me that we must stick to the basics that we have set in motion with the reform. I also note that more people who would have ended up in early retirement have become part of the labour market. I actually think that in many ways too is really, really good. It must never be an objective that one should not be part of a working community. This may be necessary, and it may end in that way that you need an early retirement pension, and then you should have the opportunity to have it, but being part of a working community is, I think, absolutely crucial. The most recent figures show that approx. 29 000 people work in a flex job of up to 10 hours a week, and I would like to remind you that this before the reform was not a real possibility. Flex jobs were then targeted at more resourceful citizens who could work for several hours. Almost 12 000 citizens have completed a process of resource development since the reform, and almost every three months are in employment, flex jobs or education or on unemployment benefits. Is one in three that good or bad? In assessing this, one must at least bear in mind that the target population for resource development is primarily those who were granted early retirement prior to the reform. From this point of view, I believe that one in three is positive, but I also believe that we can do better, and that is why we also need to address some of the challenges presented by the evaluation. Firstly, every five citizens, who have been at least six months in a process of resource development, have not received any kind of effort. That, of course, is not good enough. Secondly, municipalities face major challenges in creating business-oriented services in resource development, for which rehabilitation teams in eight out of ten cases have recommended the citizen. And I cannot stress enough that it is quite unacceptable that municipalities should not be able to give their citizens a better effort in terms of resources. It's just not okay.; it is not good enough for some municipalities to stand by and keep the citizens waiting just when it comes to the most crucial thing: that the citizens get started with active action and business-oriented offers. We will also be discussing this, and it is also something that requires our full attention. The evaluation also shows that there are challenges in the area of flex jobs. There is still high unemployment among citizens who have searched for flex jobs, although they have managed to reduce unemployment from 24 per cent. in 2012 to 17 per cent. in 2018, and it is worth noting also during a period when far more are searched for flex jobs. So basically, it's a nice farm. But that does not mean that we should not continue to focus on reducing unemployment, especially at a time when things are going really, really well in Denmark and where we have record employment. It is also a challenge that the number of hours for many citizens has not changed over the first few years in flex jobs. There should very much be more progression in the hourly rate for more of those working in flex jobs. So we're on it. The change of law is not going to come into effect on this side of a choice. We are going to put forward a legislative proposal with what the conciliation circle might agree on, and it is my hope that, before parliamentary elections are issued, we will be able to reach an evaluation before 17 June, which I do not know when, but which will have to be held before 17 June, and will have that evaluation completed with a view to also making adjustments to the reform. I have now invited you to what I hope will be the last final meeting here at the end of April, when we will then be discussing the many areas we have examined with a view to reaching a political agreement. That is why I would also like to thank the conciliation circle for its interest in this evaluation, which has been going on for a long time, and which has also been marked by many meetings, but which is very extensive and therefore also deserves a very serious review of the various themes covered by the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405114811	Thank you. Two have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405114818	Thank you, Minister. I fully acknowledge that the Minister has been diligent in this debate and has prepared for all the many consultations and questions that we and other rapporteurs have called for. What I meant, and which is my point, is that when it comes to concrete solutions from the conciliation circle, it has been all-dominant silence, apart from the amendment of the law which I also mentioned in my presentation. The Minister's answer to this amendment of the law prompts me to ask: does the Minister's answer here mean that there is no need for any further changes in the law when it comes to the rules for granting early retirement? That is the first question. The second is that the Minister is now saying that he will convene a meeting at the end of April, and in that case it will probably be very shortly before the announcement of a parliamentary election... the Minister is optimistic in terms of whether an agreement can be reached, and what, in the Minister's view, will be the most important thing to include in such a bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405114931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405114935	I am quite open to discussing this when we make a political agreement and we also discussed this with the parties on whether to change the current law. And there will be, of course, because we have already had one discussion here in the Assembly, which has had a real impact, namely the whole question of the approach to the flow of resources. How does the political agreement end? I think that may be worthy of us discussing it with the parties and not doing so in full transparency in this Chamber. That is precisely why we have political circles of agreement, so that we can then reach a political agreement in which everyone can see themselves. So, of course, I have my own ideas, but I intend to introduce them to the parties when I present them with possible solutions. I would like to say that I think we can reach a political agreement before an election takes place, because from 25 April until 17 June there will be a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115035	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115040	Thank you, and thank you, Minister, for your statement. The Minister says that there is a good deal of work going on and all that, but when questions are asked about it, it has always been said: well, there will be a solution after the evaluation of the law, and the parties will sit down and look at it. But it is not the case that we have the impression that some result has come out of it, and that is why it is, of course, a little difficult to believe that, at the rate that has been here this spring, there will also be a result on 25 April. Is the Minister sure that it will not end up being pushed to after an election and that the Minister will not be able to get anything in place at all? Because I think it is a little wrong to expect the citizens to find a solution to this side of an election when it is probably not going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115143	Thank you for that critical remark. I mean, I didn't say that we were going to come up with a solution on 25 April. I have said that we have the final meeting. This could lead to more meetings. But Mr. Bent Bøgsted knows if anyone knows how many meetings there are taking place over at the Ministry of Employment. The only time we're not having meetings is between 2:00 a.m. 24:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. 6:00 in the morning. So I'm an optimist. In fact, I think we can agree between the parties. I have no ambition to shoot this any further, because I actually agree with what Mr. Bent Bøgsted question, I think, is a real concern that there are some citizens who might have better conditions. I agree that some clarification is needed, and that has been my intention throughout. That is also why it was very close to my heart that we had the amendment of the law that came into force on 1 June 2018 and that has had a very specific meaning, because we could see that the rules that were there were not clear enough and that unfortunately there was a great difference between municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115245	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the negotiations, which means that the general rules for short remarks will apply again. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115314	Thank you. We should not demand anything from others that we ourselves are not prepared to do. I will therefore try to set a good example to all the other rapporteurs and present the Enhedslisten's proposals on what should happen to changes in this legislation. In general terms, I can say that we support the demands made by 65 organisations, mainly trade unions and disability organisations, and collectively under the name of ValuegReform. On some of the points, we will work for more far-reaching solutions, so here are our points. ValuegReform suggests that if the ability to work is reduced to 7 hours or less, the citizen must have a legal right to early retirement and thus a free choice between resource progression, flexible job or early retirement. We fully agree with the principle, and it would be good if the Folketing could come together on it. However, we will work to ensure that the limit should be a two-and-a-half hour working capacity, which in practice corresponds to the pre-reform limit. ValuegReform suggests that resource sequences should have a maximum total period of 5 years. After that, the citizen must have a legal right to choose between rehabilitation, flex jobs, resource development or early retirement. Once again, we fully agree with that principle and we believe it is necessary to make a limitation. We simply believe that the total duration of proceedings must not exceed two years. In addition, we have proposed a large number of other tightenings and improvements to the rules on resource progression. ValuegReform suggests that the citizen should be able to apply for resources and thus be able to complain about a possible refusal. We fully agree with that. ValuegReform suggests that access to restraint flexibility jobs in the same company should be facilitated and that the 12-month quarantine should be removed. We fully agree with that. ValueReform suggests that the resource progression benefit should be at the level of sickness benefit and that income from occupational pensions and other schemes should not be offset against lost work capacity. We're in complete agreement. ValuegReform proposes that the pay and working conditions of flex-jobs should be established in cooperation with the professional organisations and in accordance with collective agreements in the field or similar. We would like to go further and have registered a genuine right of negotiation with the trade unions in connection with the recruitment of flex jobs. In addition, Enhedslisten also has a number of other proposals. Declarations by practitioners and specialists must have a much stronger place in the law. Municipalities should not be able to initiate work tests, resource processes or flex jobs against doctors' instructions. We have put forward proposals to strengthen the rehabilitation system, which is the absolutely best tool for helping people back into the labour market. We propose to convert the flex-job scheme into a compensation scheme according to the same principle as in the State's flex-job scheme, or one could look at the student scheme. This means that all employers must contribute a percentage of labour costs to a fund. Employers who take social responsibility and hire flex jobs must be rewarded with a grant. The others must experience the joy of contributing to a good purpose. At the same time, it will be able to ensure that we eliminate the wage discrimination that is a consequence of this reform. A clarification guarantee must then be introduced for cash benefits recipients, such as: will mean that sick cash benefits recipients do not have to be sent in endless work tests for years, and then sent out in one or more resource sequences. It must be the case that, within one year, it will be necessary to clarify whether the recipients of cash benefits are to receive resources or early retirement or rehabilitation. We have then put forward a proposal to deal with this next week. These are the changes that need to be made if we are to ensure the dignified treatment of sick citizens and people with disabilities. In a moment I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and it should be seen as a very good offer to all conciliation parties. They clearly need help to find good solutions. In particular, it should be seen as a good offer to the Social Democratic Party and the SF. Mette Frederiksen is genuinely sorry about her reform. In particular, sick people are sent out into grueling and hopeless work tests. That was not the intention, she has said, and she has said that she would like to abolish bed practice. Now the two parties have the chance to realise their ambitions. Because if the bourgeois do not want to join, we can sit down and make a good deal before the parliamentary elections, and it can then come into force immediately after, if our five parties still have a majority, and that all indicates that we have. It will be something that gives hope to the many people who feel abandoned and run over by current legislation. And then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and Alternativet, I will finish by reading one: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that despite a very long evaluation process, the conciliation circle behind the reform of early retirement/flex jobs has not yet put forward proposals to improve the rules in this area, which can ensure that people with little or no ability to work are quickly granted early retirement and thus not forced into hopeless work tests and long-term resources. The Folketing therefore urges the government to call immediately all parties in the Folketing for negotiations on improvements to the reform in order to reach an agreement before the parliamentary elections, which can give seriously ill people and people with serious disabilities an increased legal certainty. Parliament calls for the negotiations in question to include, inter alia: is based on the 6 requirements from VærdgReform, which has been sent to the Danish Parliament, cf. BEU 2017-18, alm. Part - Annex 45. V 86). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115856	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115900	In May of last year, when we made this amendment of the law, I remember it very clearly in that way that both Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten were very distracted on behalf of the proposal, indeed, almost scoffing at it that it was a small detail and that it would probably have no influence. And by the way, it was almost a joke, and it was almost a joke to make fun of people, because it would not go through and what guarantees they had for it. How will Mr. Finn Sørensen now evaluates it, when it has been clearly stated by both the Ankestyrelsen and several municipalities that it actually had and today has concrete significance for the lives of many people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405115942	I think sir... Karsten Hønge will have to reread my rapporteur's speech, because then he would not be able to find the words for which he stands and quotes me here. I think it's gonna be hard to find words like it's a joke and so on. It is quite true that we said quite in line with the Minister that this does not change anything fundamental and that this amendment does not mean that more people are granted early retirement. However, we did not reject the fact that that amendment would have an impact, and that is why we voted in favour of it, because we would, of course, give it a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120015	I remember clearly not only the speech, but also several listings on Facebook and other places where Enhedslisten made fun of this little change, because it was so small a change that it would have virtually no meaning. But we have always agreed that this was only a small change, and that is why we are not waiting for much of it, but it should be linked to this more thorough evaluation. - Sir... Finn Sørensen did not make himself say that the change, which at the time was just thought would have almost no significance, has been of great importance and that it has been established both by the Ankestyrelsen and by several municipalities? So, yes, the adjustment we made in May had a concrete impact on the lives of many people and their ability to obtain early retirement. It was a step forward and it was good. I also remember clearly that the Enhedslisten voted in favour, but it was with all sorts of falsifiers that it was practically ridiculous, by the way. This was a positive thing!
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120101	I must insist that I did not say from this platform that it was practically ridiculous. I can hear you, sir. Karsten Hønge, that we actually agree that it was a small change and that a fundamental change in this reform is required. For the view that has always driven the Enhedslisten in this discussion and countless people outside Christiansborg and a large number of trade unions and other organisations is that it is a problem that we still lack the fundamental change that can protect people who have very little or no ability to work. So if that's what we're agreed on, then we're gonna keep fighting for it. Whether this change is the reason why the number of early retirement grants is increasing, we are still missing an analysis of that I actually included in my presentation of the question. This may be due to several things: it may be because the municipalities have caught the signal, it may also be due to a ketchup effect, which lies in the fact that a lot of resources are being completed and where things are going, as usual, if you say so, namely that approx. half of those who finish the resource cycle are granted an early retirement pension. It may also be a combination of both, but we would very much like to help investigate that. We are just delighted that there has been a more sensible attitude in the municipalities on this. And if that signal has contributed to it, it also answers why we voted in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120226	The proposal from DF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten is, of course, part of the further negotiations. There are no brief comments. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen and move on to Mr. Sørensen. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120248	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for taking this debate again. We have taken it a number of times in this Chamber, but this reform is also one of the most important issues at all, because it has meant a great deal to a great many people. As the Minister also said, for many it has been a positive reform, but too many, very many, have not been easy, and we must and must change that. For that was certainly not the intention of the reform. The intention was to give many people a better life and more chances. After all, I cannot mention much new today, because not so much has happened since last time, but the reason for this should be put to the Minister. That is why I would like to mention again what is important to us in relation to the reform and what changes we are going to make in the negotiations, but as I have been told before. It is very good that the change we have made in the reform has meant that more people have been given a flex job and that they are also very satisfied with it. I'm glad. It was the idea of the reform to give people who have a working capacity and who still want to be part of a working community an opportunity to do so. I am a little surprised that more people with mini-flex jobs have not had several hours, and some of this is due to a lack of follow-up on the part of the municipalities. Of course, it needs to be improved, as it is also best if you have a flex job and you want to increase your number of hours and you can have a follow-up to your ability to work. But we must also note that there are too many people who feel hunted, who can no longer work at all and want peace, and I cannot say that often enough: if you are so ill that you have to have an early retirement pension, you must of course have an early retirement pension. I do not think anyone else has been heard saying the opposite here from the platform. At the same time, as a person who is ill in this country, we must be able to demand proper and decent treatment from the municipalities with an effort that is good and understandable to the individual. That is just not the experience that everyone has and it simply needs to change. We cannot accept that. That is why I have to repeat some of the things that matter to us and that we are ready to negotiate. Of course, we are always ready to discuss everything, but my speaking time is also limited, so I will mention some of them. Firstly, in order to ensure that more people become part of the community in the workplace, we must create even more opportunities for good flex jobs, and when I say "good flex jobs," I must unfortunately also say that we have heard some stories about people who are being exploited when assessing their ability to work and finding out how many hours they need money for, and that cannot be done. We simply need to discuss this among the conciliation parties. Too many people are not satisfied with their resources, and it simply takes too long for them to get a course until something actually happens. We need to have proper resource processes where the individual feels heard and where we do not have to wait several months and several years for action. Then it is particularly important that you are so ill that you cannot work anymore, so of course you should not. It seems like it's getting better. We also heard the Minister say that, after clarification, more people have received early retirement and that some of the municipalities that were worst have also awakened, and that is a good thing. However, I am not so naive as to think that everything is good, and here we must then find a way of demanding more from the municipalities and ensuring that citizens' cases are better clarified and that they are more listened to. As I said, we are ready to negotiate. We have reviewed the evaluation, and we have some thoughts and ideas about what the problem is and what it takes to make it better, which I have revealed here. Now we're just waiting for the minister, since it's been dragging on a little bit. We are delighted that a meeting has been set up, because now we cannot wait any longer. A lot of people are waiting for us to act. There are many out there who would like to change some things in the reforms, which should give them a more meaningful everyday life. I understand that, and I think that is also a reasonable demand on their part. Then I would like to read out the proposal for adoption from the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance, Radicals, SF and Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the overall evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs in general shows a positive development where more people have entered flex jobs, but there are also negative effects, including that too many resource processes have too little content. The Danish Parliament follows the area closely and notes that the conciliation circle behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs has discussions on the evaluation of the reform in order to remedy the negative effects and manage the positive effects identified by the evaluation. V 87).
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120733	The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120747	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur, also for his speech, I think that I address some of the problems in the reform that Enhedslisten also sees. Thank you. There were not so many what should we say in concrete terms about what needs to be done. After all, a few years ago, Mette Frederiksen said that bed practice should be over. Is this a proposal that the rapporteur will make in the negotiations, that is to say, that some legislative changes will have to be made which will prevent the municipalities from sending people to work tests in their bed with them? I'd like to ask that. I think I'll start with that in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120839	At least one thing is certain. Work tests must always make sense, and if they don't make sense, you shouldn't have those work tests. This is something that is quite clear, and we must also discuss it in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120854	That is not what could be described as a clear 'yes' or 'no' answer to my question. I think that there are many people out there who would like to know whether these are the sort of things the Social Democrats want to fight for. Now the rapporteur mentioned that it was also necessary to look at the possibility of getting early retirement and whether it is too difficult, as it is today. That's how I saw it. When I hear the proposal for adoption tabled together with the rest of the conciliation parties, it does not say anything about it. Then it only says something about the content of resource sequences. If it is now the case that the Social Democratic Party cannot get through with that view or other views, is the Social Democratic Party ready to accept the offer that the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and the Alternative make here today that we sit together and make an agreement before the parliamentary elections that meets our common desire to improve this reform in a completely different way from what can be achieved with the conciliation parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405120956	Sometimes I wonder if it really makes sense to read out your rapporteur's speech or if you cannot just send it around, because it is as if you are not just listening to what you are standing up here saying. So I do not know whether it is almost a waste of time to stand and speak as rapporteur. As I stood here from the platform, I said that we would like to see a much better flow of resources and proper work tests, that is. in a way that these people feel they're being treated properly. And I also said that we must ensure that those who are going to receive early retirement also receive early retirement. So I'm a little puzzled by the fact that sir... Finn Sørensen has not listened to it, but now I have repeated it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121031	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121034	Thank you. Now I know Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and know that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is a man with great patience and is happy to stand on the platform, no matter what questions are put to the rapporteur. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is also a man of great patience with the Minister, for it has certainly been a long process of clarification after the evaluation. Now the Minister said before that the last final meeting was on 25 April, and when he answers my question he says: it may well lead to more meetings. How, then, is this the final meeting? Did Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is confident that on 25 April the final meeting will be held and that there will be a solution to all this? Because there's some of it that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says, as we in the Danish People's Party agree: It should make sense to make an effort. Then the question is who thinks it makes sense, i.e. whether it is the citizen or it is the job centre that thinks it makes sense with that effort. This is something that I can understand will be addressed in a review of the legislation. But does Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that 25 April is the final meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121149	Well, I always have to believe what the Minister says. But I must also say that there have been several readings, that I have said that we are holding thematic meetings and holding thematic meetings, and we are doing this to the Minister quite a lot. We have done the same here. And yes, it has taken a long time, and I also believe that it has taken too long. I think we could have had a debate, because the last meeting we had in January. Whether it is a final meeting on 25 April, I find it difficult to deal with it, because it was only yesterday very convenient that we were called to a meeting on 25 April, so now I have to get used to getting it on the calendar and get used to finding out what is going to happen on 25 April. So what's going to happen there, I can't know, but as always, I'm meeting up with a good mood over by the minister. If he is ready to land a debate, so are we, and we have been for a long time, then I will certainly look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121238	Thank you. Well, we're also looking forward with excitement to what's gonna happen if something comes on this side of a choice. We know that there are only a few months left for it to be completed. The Minister says that there is plenty of time, but at the pace of the negotiations and evaluation of the pre-time flexible job reform, I have to say that my confidence that something will be landed on 25 April may not be as great as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensens. But if there can really be any results in relation to what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says he wants to get through, and we look forward with excitement to it coming. And it would be a great pleasure for those who are affected by the legislation if there were to be the improvements promised by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121332	I am not saying that I have great faith that anything will be landed on 25 April, because we still have good reason to hear what the Minister thinks, and we should expect him to come there or before. I also fully agree that the Minister has had a great deal of time here. You could then ask what the reason was. It seemed that it was just something that had to go over an election. That's how it might be. I think it has taken too long for me to agree with that, but as always I come to a debate, of course, to change some things, and I also think we should change it here as soon as possible. You could also hear in my speech that I actually think those people now deserve us to land this thing and that we agree on something I think they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121413	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, and a warm welcome to Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121428	Thank you for that, President. This is an important debate, because it affects many people who are affected by the efforts that are being made in relation to the course of resources, in the form of a lack of clarification, whether they can get early retirement, get into flex jobs or whatever. There may also be a lack of clarification, i.e. whether they are allowed to have a course of resources at all, because that is also the situation of some. In the Danish People's Party we have a clear position on resource sequences. We think, in fact, that the process of resource development is good, but it is not as long-term as it is many times, because it is unreasonable that we should wait and wait for clarification. If you are ill and need clarification and you have come to the point where you are awarded a programme of resources, then it cannot be right that clarification should take several years. It must be possible to do this fairly quickly, at least within two years, but also many times within one year. It should be possible to do so if you make the effort you have to make. This is also one of the things that I naturally hope the parties to the agreement will look at a little seriously, in other words, whether the efforts to clarify early retirement and flexible jobs are going on quickly enough. There has been talk of how many people are receiving early retirement, and there we can see that some of the efforts that have been made with clarification of the cash assistance that the Danish People's Party, together with the Minister for Employment, has shown that there were very many who were just allowed to go, who have now been granted an early retirement pension or a flexible job. That is very good, and it is some of the measures that need to be taken. It also shows that when you put the thumb screws on against the municipalities and maybe send a little money with, so they have little, they can work with there too, then they also start making a clarification. But that's some of what you think should happen by itself. It may well be that there is something in the legislation that needs to be changed so that you can not just get around it, but so that it becomes a little more firm when you have to do what. We also believe that mini-flex jobs are not the right solution unless people want to. Whether a flex job is 5 or 7 hours, I don't want to hang myself in so much, but it's crazy if it comes down to less than 1 hour while the flex job is bedridden, and it should have stopped a long time ago, because it doesn't belong anywhere. But, of course, we will not prevent people, if they want a flex job, from getting a flex job in just a few hours, but it should be something they voluntarily chose if they are to have clarification for an early retirement. I see that there is enough to tackle for the conciliation circle. I have my doubts about the case that has been going on since it was said that the law now needs to be evaluated. Now Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that the last meeting was in January, and then they have one here on 25 April, but that one should be able to find a solution there, I do not really believe. The Minister said that this was the final meeting, but then he also said that it might well be that it would lead to more meetings. I would say to the Minister for Employment that this is not a final meeting. The Minister knows all about that. But I'll pass it on. It has something to do with how to interpret a final meeting. It may lead to more meetings. The Minister should be able to hear for himself what it sounded like, and I think the Minister himself was aware of that. When it comes to a final meeting, there will just be no more. But let it go. We hope that the conciliation circle will be able to achieve a good result which will benefit the citizens affected by the efforts being made in the municipalities. I also know that the Minister has had a hold on many municipalities and has put on the thumb screws when there has been something, and it is not the case that the Minister for Employment gets out of the way to express his opinion to the municipalities when he does not think they meet the demands of the early and flex-job reform either, and we should take that off our hat, because it should inspire respect that we have a minister who dares to tackle the root of the nettle, and I am glad we have that. So that is something that might be a sign that there can be a result. But I just have my doubts as to whether it can be achieved before an election, but then we have to hope that the new government that comes to after an election will be with the same Minister for Employment, or whether it is another Minister for Employment, whether it is a different color government or what it is taking this seriously and saying that we must now have this task resolved as soon as possible. Of course, we look forward to that with excitement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121926	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted, and warm welcome to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405121940	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten for once again debating this issue. Perhaps a little déjà vu will be given the fact that we were in the same floor when we talked about the same question from the same questioner back in November, and fortunately we also had a good debate then, and I hope for the same thing today. For the same reason, I went back and saw little about what we talked about in November. I also saw my own speech through, and if I am going to say so, what I said at the time was also extremely sensible. Among other things: I said that when I look around the Chamber, I do not see a single party or person who does not want our fellow citizens the best. We all want the citizens who need help to have it too. We all want to create a society in which we hold hands under those who cannot and where we give a loving nudge to those who can, but perhaps we need to be helped a little on the way. We all want a system in which those who can provide, while those who cannot, must benefit from the community's help. That's the way it should be. That was in November, and we still think so. Those who can work must work and those who cannot must not work the period. That's all it is. However, as I also said to the debate we had in November, it is essential for the Left to be able to make a contribution, so is a little right: for us it is of great value that we contribute as much as we can. I think that is also true of the individual citizen, and that is why we are also in the reform we made when the Minister for Employment was named Mrs Mette Frederiksen, because it was and is a step in the right direction. We sincerely believe that it is positive if people have a job to stand up to, not necessarily a full-time job, but that is not the objective either. The aim is to offer as much as possible what you can, and we think that is good for the individual, and it is also good for society. That is why, overall, we welcome the reform, which was also voted through by a broad majority in the Folketing. After all, the aim of the reform was, and indeed is, that fewer people should be left to public support and more should be in employment. In general terms, it must also be said that this is what has happened. However, having said that, there are challenges, it is not open to discussion. There are still cases where people are dragged through unnecessary employment efforts; interventions that basically have no purpose. At the same time, we also see that the number of early retirement pensions granted has varied considerably between municipalities, and it is not right that the question is sometimes whether the award of early retirement pensions depends on one's postal code. I don't want it to be like that. That is why we have also opened up the reform in the past, and we have also adjusted what the Minister for Employment said. However, as we also discussed in November, the evaluation shows a number of challenges, because many citizens receive the wrong effort, which does not necessarily help them closer to the labour market. After all, there are great challenges in creating the good business-oriented offers that we know work well, and there are many who are searching for a flex job that has not yet been given it. Yes, there are things that do not work, and that requires that both municipalities and we take a critical look at this whole area. We are already well underway and hopefully we will find good, sustainable solutions in the forthcoming negotiations. So the Left is in that kind of reform. Basically, we think it is right, but we also need it to be inspected. So, with those words, I would like to thank you for bringing the debate up again, and then I would like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately could not be here today, and say that they also support the proposal for adoption which has been presented by a group of parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122439	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122442	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very clear recognition that there are still people who are being sent out without hope and that this should not happen and that something needs to be done about it. Thank you. The rapporteur then says that those who can work must work. Those who cannot should not work under the assumption that they must have an early retirement pension. I guess that's what's meant. It is no longer, says the rapporteur. One can say that it should no longer be, but it is longer, because that is not what the law says. It says that if the municipality considers that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work in the long term, it is a direct quote • the municipality should not give an early retirement pension. Then the municipality must try to develop the working capacity that is not present at the moment, in the form of additional work tests or resource sequences, or it must send the citizen in a mini-flex job, to use that word, i.e. a flex job with very few hours. So the law does not say what the rapporteur says. If it did, I think we had a slightly different situation. It is, of course, the wording that is the basic problem in that legislation. That's what makes the citizen out of law. The only concrete thing that is mentioned in the proposal for adoption put forward by the conciliation parties is that I might hear wrong or not get the whole thing out of the way is, as I heard, that there is only one specific thing, and it is not even very specific, namely that there needs to be a better content in the processes of resources. So I ask: is this the only change that the Left wants to make? Or will the Left be prepared to respond to the wishes of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122633	We are quite open to discussing all the proposals for adjustments to this reform. A large number of organisations have, among other things, been involved. pointed to the relationship of flexible jobs, restraint flexible jobs, which is also an element that we need to discuss. That's just one point. In concrete terms, it is quite clear that we need to look at those processes of resources that have no content. We're gonna have to look at those, too. Then we will also have to discuss this with the fact that when you get a flex job, it also has to have a perspective. There must also be some progression in it, i.e. that a few hours turn into several hours. We would also like to discuss this. So we are, in fact, open to looking at how we can improve the reform that we thought was necessary, but which we want to do even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122743	Thank you. In the series of examples mentioned by the rapporteur, what I asked was not included, to put it very briefly: should it be easier to get early retirement than it is according to the rules that are in the law today? And when it is not there, is it because the Left does not want it to be there, or is it because some other parties do not want it to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122810	I certainly think that we in the conciliation circle should discuss what the balance should be, i.e. when an early retirement can be granted. I think we should definitely turn that around. I expect that to happen as well. We have now reviewed the whole evaluation and now we have to start the proposals that have been put to the table by each of us. And there are also organisations that have mentioned it. We are happy to discuss what the balance should be. And then I do not think we are going to get much closer today, because I think it is best that we take those negotiations in the conciliation circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122857	There are no more brief comments. So I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405122905	Here too, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for bringing this debate up again. I could easily stand here and talk about what the Liberal Alliance generally thinks about reform. I think most people in this Chamber know that very well. We are in favour of the reform being carried out. We think it was right to take a stand against the way in which young people, in particular, had been sent on passive public support for the rest of their lives. But what I find interesting when we take these debates is not, in fact, that I can stand out from the Liberal Alliance and tell what we know, but it is actually trying to learn more about each other. What I find interesting about it, as Mr. Finn Sørensen went up when Mr. Sørensen... Hans Andersen from the Left before was on the platform, it is here with the development of the ability to work. Because we need to be a little more specific about the things we disagree on. We can stand here and say that we have intentions and that we want something and that we are discussing it in a conciliation circle, but where is the nerve in this? Where do we actually disagree? And then we may have to come to the conclusion that we say yes, we disagree. We don't agree, but then we agree to disagree. But those who punk that we intend to do everything are fine enough, but I think it is actually more fun in the debate if we try to go into the things where we disagree. When it comes to the development of working capacity and what is in the law today, I and the Liberal Alliance are fully committed to it, because we believe that it is basically reasonable. If you have an ability to work, but you may not be able to work right now, but there are opportunities to develop your ability to work so that you can get back to work, then we think you should try it before an early retirement is granted, where it is said that you can no longer work. I am not sure that there is necessarily a great deal of disagreement about this either, because I do not believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten believe that if there is a prospect that you can get to work, then you just need to be parked. But perhaps there is disagreement about the level of it, that is when you mean it, or who can assess it. What I find difficult about this whole area is that there are so many individual differences between people. So when we try to lay down criteria from a legislative point of view, we will find it difficult to hit them properly because people are so different. And two diagnoses, which immediately look the same, can develop in very, very different directions. So that makes the task we're dealing with here extra difficult. Now we have had a review of the evaluation, which has been made over in the Ministry, in some thematic meetings. It's been fine. It's complicated matter. And now we are going to look at where we politically believe action should be taken. In the Liberal Alliance, we are concerned that no more are being sent on early retirement. We have a high number in relation to Sweden, for example. But, of course, we are also concerned that we treat people with dignity and respect and where is that balance? It's not easy, but we're gonna have to try to find it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123222	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123224	Thank you to the rapporteur. As is often the case when the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance are discussing, there are clear speeches from both sides, and it is very, very rare that that speech is pulling in the same direction, and neither is it today. But thank you for a clear answer. I see it as saying that the Liberal Alliance is where the Liberal Alliance stood on 9 November when we discussed this. The rapporteur then said that it should not be easier to get early retirement, but rather that it should be more difficult. I think the rapporteur may have to acknowledge this may be difficult to get through. However, the rapporteur said very clearly that he was prepared to use his right of veto, which he has as a conciliation party, in order to prevent early retirement becoming easier. If that is understood correctly, it might be very nice to confirm beyond a nod, so that you can read it in the minutes afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123322	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123323	It is absolutely true that the Liberal Alliance is concerned with ensuring that people can work as long as possible and we are not interested in relaxing this arrangement. We are not interested in Denmark having more on early retirement. We are interested in helping more people in flex jobs and in other schemes. So I can confirm this: the Liberal Alliance does not want to make early retirement more relaxed than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123354	I am sincerely sorry for the content of the answer, but I am glad that it is clear because we can then draw some lines into this debate. However, the reason why I am really sorry is that that is what suggests that there is not really anything coming out of the negotiations on the fundamental problem that both the Left and the Social Democrats recognise there is, that is, that there is legislation that means that a lot of people are being sent out in a path that is hopeless. Because it is precisely the core problem that is in it. So I am sorry about the content, but of course glad that is a clear answer. After all, it is important that everyone, both the other conciliation parties and the rest of us who are not present, plus all those who are listening, should be able to get a clear picture of what is really possible in the debate that we are going to have on 25 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123444	There were just not so much questions in it, but that's right. Fortunately, the two possibilities that exist are not either an early retirement or nothing, and we have to look at that in the conciliation circle: is there a completely third way, which may not be one of the arrangements that exists today, but where we can help these people? But in isolation to early retirement, the Liberal Alliance is not interested in relaxing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123514	Thank you to Mrs Lindahl and warmly welcome to Mr Lindahl. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. There are five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405123527	Thank you. The alternative has, of course, been in the criticism of the early retirement and flexible job reform all the way through, consultation and questions and consultations, and what has been going on, and we have also made various projects. For example: We have just published a book which has been distributed to all members of the Employment Committee, which makes 24 Danes' meeting with the employment system visible. I'd like to read Citizen No. The 20th report shows a concrete example of what it is like for ordinary Danes to meet the employment system during the early retirement and flexible job reform. The fact that I was alone with two children was never taken into account that I had been working for 35 years after all, nor was it taken into account that I was out enough to milk the municipality without giving my services. I am 60 years old and have worked as a nurse for 35 years until 81⁄2 years ago I became ill with stress. When I couldn't do a full-time job after three months, I got fired. At first I walked long walks in the forest, approx. 11⁄2 hours a day, but it wasn't good enough for the municipality, I was going to the gym where I couldn't stand to be. Right from the start, I've been pressured to do more than I've been able to do. The first work test started at 15 hours a week and the hour was to be increased even if I did not manage the 15 hours. When I had been on a work test in the same place for 9 months, the municipality suddenly discovered that I was still in the same place. The next day I had to start a course. I didn't even get the chance to say goodbye to the internship. That I was alone with two children was never taken into account. The fact that I had been working for 35 years was not taken into account either, since I was out enough to milk the municipality without providing mine. It's been 81⁄2 years now, and I'm in resource sequence. I've been internship seven times plus a lot of courses. My ability to work is now 1 hour and 20 minutes a week. I've been pressured all along, and the economy and the uncertain future have put a lot of stress on me. I'm no longer in charge of my own life. I've had to move away from my network and into a small apartment where I don't thrive. There is no room here for a washing machine, and I no longer have the strength to go to the laundry. Here are stairs that I find difficult to carry up my shopping. I can only shop when I borrow a 86-year-old car from my mother. I find it difficult to keep home and cook, and the municipality has also sought home help for me. I have applied for a pension several times without success. At first I really wanted to have a flex job, now I'm too bad. I'm sure I wouldn't have gotten so sick if I hadn't been pushed through all the way, but the municipality instead had listened to me. Pressure, poor finances and uncertainty are not doing anything good for stress, but the worst thing is that my youngest daughter has also got stress, which my situation has probably contributed to. At some point, I was internship. I was going by bus, train and bus again, a one-hour journey. On the previous work test, I had to stop early because I was very bad. Here I was estimated to work 6 to 8 hours a week. The new place where I needed 2 hours for transportation a day thought I could handle 20 hours a week. I was allowed to start with 12 hours, and already the second day I was told I had to get up in time, I didn't have anything wrong. I went home crying and enlisted sick for one day, which resulted in me being told that if I had to move on in the system, I was not allowed to report ill again. I was poor 24-7 in the 3 months I was in the internship, and also in the subsequent internship of 3 months, which I started right after. Now I'm estimated to be able to handle a four-hour working week. Yet again I did not get a pension, but a programme of resources because, as they said, they had tried with whip, so now they would try to be good to me to see if I could work more. At the end of the resource cycle, I have been subject to the municipality for almost 9 years. How can anyone take so long to find out what people's ability to work is? My life is ruined, and it is quite free for the municipality to destroy it, because they are not held accountable. They've just done what they could to save money. I hope with all my heart that this madness has to stop before even more people get their lives ruined. P.S. I have just been granted an early retirement pension after 9 years after I wrote it. But I still have trouble coping with everyday life, lying down most of the day. People with stress become chronically ill at the job center, but the worst thing is that my 20-year-old daughter has also got stress and therefore has not started an education. I don't understand why the system is running so hard on single people that it has to hurt our children. Both I and my daughter could have been healthy today if the system had taken account of the individual. Although my chief medical officer wrote that under no circumstances should I be pressed, the job center continued, threatening that I would remain on cash if I did not do what they said. This book and these reports aren't aimed at case officers. Today we are discussing what we politicians can do, and it's an appeal I'll call it a prayer to the SF, the Left, the Social Democrats, Radicals, Conservatives and LA to adjust this law so that people like this citizen don't get their lives ruined by being subject to the early retirement and flexible job reform. And I hope that it will be adjusted in place before an election, especially for the sake of the reformers who are going to get out of this mess. Here are 24 more stories, and we have read 90 of them from the rooms of the Alternative at Christiansborg. However, I would also like to hope that this matter will be settled before an election and that the parties behind the early retirement and flexible job reform will show the courage to make a new agreement which the electorate will then be allowed to judge in the electoral room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124048	Thank you to the rapporteur. For another time, I'd like to read a paragraph. It is more because we have to remember each other what the Rules say. I did not intervene because I think that the quote was the one, but it says: "Citates may only be used to a limited extent. That's to say, you use a few sentences or something. It's just for another time. So you have to be aware that your own words fill most of your speech. But thank you for the reading and for the post. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124136	Thank you for that and thank you to the President. I just want to quote myself, and I hope that is all right, and that is from the latest debate we had. Thanks to Enhedslisten for raising this query debate. Unfortunately, we have had this debate before and at the end of November last year. When I read my own words from then on, I can see that I said that I was very much looking forward to the upcoming evaluation and that we wanted to adjust to the reform. It's still out of control. It is clear that we will come to the meeting with the Minister in April. There we will do exactly what we have announced in the past, namely go into it with an open mind. We want to help to remedy this reform in the best possible way. What we want to do is to make sure that it is a process of resources that makes sense and we want to make sure in every possible way that the intentions of the reform are fulfilled. I would also like to do so before a parliamentary election, but I have to say that we would also like to do so after a parliamentary election. For me, it is not the case that everything disappears if it gets across to the other side of an election, but I just don't see any reason why we shouldn't do it quickly, because it has been clear for a long time what the evaluation says and where the political parties stand. So, we would like to adjust the reform so that we come ever closer to getting a reform that is fair and that can do what it has to do, namely bring citizens closer to employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124256	You're welcome. Is there a comment? Yes, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124302	Forgive me for being a little late, but thank you for having taken the rapporteur so long to come down from the platform that I made it anyway, and thank you for the flexibility of the President. Could the rapporteur perhaps reveal a little more about what concrete changes the Radical Left envisages implementing this legislation on early retirement and flexible work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124330	I don't want to do that. I would prefer to go first into the negotiations and in the really close negotiations, but the intention must be for these tools to be used more flexibly so that people feel that this is fair and that there is content in the things they are being put into. I do not agree with Enhedslisten's intention to make an early retirement pension a right that is easier to achieve, because I am so sorry when I meet people who have received early retirement but who later recover and then feel parked. I only think that early retirement should be given as the last option.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124409	Thank you. Then it was a good thing that I asked, because it should therefore be understood that the rapporteur is actually in the same place as Mrs Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance, namely that it should not be easier to get early retirement than is stated in the law today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124430	I would like people who are going on early retirement to receive early retirement, but I do not think it is a right that we should be quick to grant people. That is where we owe it to people to help them as far as possible to get back into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124447	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and warm welcome to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405124456	It is slow to evaluate the law too slowly. And I am actually also surprised at the progress made, because the Minister has previously stated that he expected this to be clear this spring, well to note that it is ready to be adopted. It also came out in connection with the adjustment of the law that we had in May last year, that it was a partial evaluation, and then the great evaluation was put in place, which would then run over the autumn. And as it was put out, the expectation was that it would be adopted here at the beginning of this year. It is quite clear that it will not be possible to have it adopted before an election. I have read in Jyllands-Posten that I should have rolled myself on the floor and set my own clothes on fire in the Ministry in frustration over the slowness, and when it says in the paper, it must be true. At any rate, I find it disappointing about the slowness, not because it has something to do with the Folketing, but because it has something to do with a whole lot of people out there who rightly expect us to have the law adjusted. Fortunately, we changed the law last May and it was necessary because many municipalities could not find the right line in how to treat their sick, vulnerable and vulnerable citizens, and the adjustment we made forced them to do so in a more humane and respectful way in several places. I guess that wasn't too much of a demand either. I am glad that I can see that the Ankestyrelsen has changed two decisions of principle, and we can among other things. hear the City of Copenhagen explicitly say that because of a change they have in fact also changed practice. It was a small change we made in May, but it actually got concrete meaning. This is also necessary, because we are constantly being presented with an almost endless series of cases in which citizens are treated with disrespect and inhumane treatment. I guess that's not the way to meet sick citizens. Instead of tripping threads, the municipalities must lend a helping hand to the citizens. SF works for a radical change in the law, and the heading for SF is to strengthen the citizen against the system. The sick must have more firm rights, they must be stronger in the face of the system. During the autumn I organized a number of listening meetings throughout the country, and they were actually incredibly well-visited. Many people came to the listening meetings to tell about their own concrete experiences in the meeting with the municipality, and how they felt badly treated, but there were also citizens who told how they were actually well treated in some municipalities and how they were helped further. It was a nuanced picture. However, the conclusion is that it is necessary for the Folketing to take action against the national lottery that is taking place, because that was the main impression that I was left with, namely that today it is the postal number which is absolutely crucial for the treatment of the citizen. Some municipalities actually treat their citizens with respect, other municipalities leave the citizen to themselves. I think that we should deal seriously with the six proposals that we have received from the initiative called "WorthReform'. Moreover, it is also in full and fine extension of the title of the SF in order to revise the law, namely to grant more rights to citizens. The sick, the vulnerable and the vulnerable need a clear law with a number of concrete rights, as the municipalities need to stop the social policy approach and instead equip citizens with a number of legal requirements. People have to face the municipality strongly. We must remove the trip wires and, instead, give weakly placed people a stronger foundation to stand on. SF proposes concrete changes, e.g. when the ability to work is less than 7 hours a week, the citizen must be able to choose between resources, flex jobs and early retirement. And if the citizen is not clear within the five years set aside, citizens must be able to choose between rehabilitation, flexible jobs, resource development and early retirement. We think it is the citizen himself who should be able to apply for resources and, moreover, be able to complain about the process. We believe that the conditions of employment in flexible jobs must always be agreed with the trade unions. We believe that it should be possible again to create a flexible job in the company where you work and we envisage a number of time guarantees. After all, in health care, we are working on the concept of a treatment guarantee. I also believe that in this context we can work in a way that gives citizens guarantees that things will happen within certain time limits. We need to put citizens who are weak on the strongest possible basis. Then I would also like to say in this speech, as I did when we discussed it in the autumn, that it was encouraging to hear Mette Frederiksen's remarks at the Social Democratic Congress that we really should tackle the root of this law. Then today, as I did in the autumn, I must say to the Socialists that words, magical strokes and soothing ointments are not enough. In particular, I call on the Socialists to make clear statements and to stand firm on the rights of the sick. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125018	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125022	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge too very clear, concrete announcements: Both in relation to the overhang for the changes that need to be more rights for citizens and also for the support for the concrete proposals from VærgReform. And I know that the SF also has excellent concrete proposals for improving that legislation. I would like to thank you for that and also say that it is very good style, because of course, as a conciliation party, we can allow ourselves to do so. It should be done so that not only the conciliation parties, but also all of us, and especially all of the electorate, have an opportunity to find out what the positions of the parties are. Sir. Karsten Hønge is aware of this slowness in the process where Mr. Karsten Hønge so far has been patient, but I think he's had the matches out to light his clothes on fire. I believe in it. Then my question is: does Mr. Karsten Høng a limit to that patience? Can it be imagined that if it looks as if a solution cannot be made before the elections, because some parties are blocking such proposals as the SF would like to make, then SF could terminate that settlement and say yes to the offer from the Danish People's Party and the alternative that we sit down and start negotiating, so we have a much better basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125147	I've offered before, among other things. to Enhedslisten, that if you would be so sweet and point to a single sick person in the country, a single person who is vulnerable and exposed, who would feel better if the SF's stepped out of the conciliation circle, then I would seriously consider it. The only thing is that the concept of terminating conciliation does not really exist, because if Mr. Finn Sørensen imagines that the settlement has been terminated because SF is stepping out, then it could make sense. That's just not what's happening. The conciliation circle we continue completely unchanged, just with the SF outside the room instead of inside the room, so it doesn't make sense for us to step out. Who would benefit from that? At least not the sick and the vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125227	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125230	Of course, it will completely change the political situation if one of the conciliation parties resigns from the conciliation before the parliamentary elections and goes to elections with other parties on a platform that is much better suited to the requirements of the SF itself. For as SF formulates here, I think it will be possible to make a good agreement between the Socialist People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten. I wonder if that would make a certain impression on some other conciliation parties, for example. The Social Democrats, who have an ambition to fill the PM post after the next parliamentary elections, because it will also be an offer to the Social Democrats that they should be able to meet their demands. The alternative is, of course, that the Liberal Alliance and any other parties' right of veto on improvements in this area will continue after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125326	To that extent, I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Finn Sørensen in that it will make life easier for SF and perhaps for me, if we stepped out of the conciliation circle, and then we could run a campaign on it, and now it is soon 1 May, and it will fit very well with the speakers. But SF does not conduct politics primarily from beer boxes, where we make the right speeches. SF are red voices working, and this work is going on in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125349	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125351	Thank you. That, sir. Karsten Hønge says is fair enough, because it is absolutely true that it doesn't change much about it if the SF goes out of a settlement. If we then have to talk something in place after an election, it still requires that there are others who cancel the settlement, and then it can only enter into force after the next elections again. And it's a long process. But it's something else I'm interested in. Sir. Karsten Hønge mentioned a little different actions that SF wants. I just want to ask: is there sensitivity to SF's wishes in these negotiations? You may not have the impression that so much is being listened to. But we are excited to see if there are any SF footprints in the evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs when there is a new result. But Mr. Karsten Hønge the impression that what was said has been listened to, or was it just listened, and then nothing happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125455	Sir. Bent Bøgsted is certainly right that this will be clarified during the spring. I do not think it is an easy task to convince the others, but it is going on in the conciliation circle. And we listen to each other, everyone listens to each other. What is the alternative to that? That's why you do it, of course. But it's a mountain that needs to be climbed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125518	The questioner? No, there are no more brief remarks. Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge, and warmly welcome to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125533	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the questioners, Finn Sørensen, for the opportunity to discuss the entire early retirement reform again. It has been a debate similar to the one we had in November. Now it has taken characters of a question of whether there is a slowness and that meetings are not being held. I will keep myself too good to tell you what meetings are invited to and who has participated. I can't go down at all on that level because that would be weird. I can just say that this is too serious a matter for me to discuss whether we are not prioritising it. We are giving priority to this and we are also working seriously through it. This is about people. It's about a lot of troublesome stuff. That is why it also deserves serious action. Then I also note that there are many people who say that they lack action. I would just like to remind you that this government has delivered action, has clarified the law. That was one of the first things I did when I became Minister for Employment. I know that there have been predecessors before me who have talked about it and have made great speeches without clarifying anything. Some have also made the political agreement that was not precise enough. The Left was part of the political agreement, but it was not we who had the employment minister's post. It was the current Socialist President. However, we have at least assumed the responsibility of clarifying the legislation, and we were willing to do so. I expect that we can make a political agreement. Bent Bøgsted quite rightly asked if one could be sure that this was the final meeting. You can never be sure of that, I must say to Bent Bøgsted. We also have many meetings that should be concluded, which continue continuously. I mean, you cannot be sure of that, but I can say that my ambition is that we must reach a conclusion. I kind of agree with the parties that this evaluation deserves to be done. That is why it is still possible to do so before the parliamentary elections are held, and it must be held by 17 June at the latest. But thank you for the debate, thank you for the comments, thank you for the proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125738	Thank you, Minister. And Finn Sørensen has the floor. And if anyone else wishes to speak, I would like to know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405125745	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate, as I have done on the other occasions when we have discussed it here. I really think it's been very good. In my head, a little bit more clarification has been made about the different positions that are taking place in the conciliation parties, and that is, in any case, useful, and I think everyone needs to know that in the further work on this serious issue. When we called for the debate, I had some very different hopes about what we should have discussed. I had a hope that we would discuss an agreement. I thought it might fit in with the time it takes to have a question debate placed and with the Minister's optimistic predictions that it would be ready at the beginning of February with the result of the evaluation process in the form of some agreement. Then it could fit very well, and then we had time to discuss the content of such an agreement. Unfortunately, this has not happened. That is why, in many ways, it has been a resurrection of the debate on 9 November and yet not. I'll get back to that. But first I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and the alternative for the cooperation and for the fact that we could make a joint proposal for adoption. Thank you to DF for some good, sharp questions along the way, and thank you to the Alternative for after all it gave so criticism from the President that depicting how the legislation works out in reality, on people. I think we should keep reminding ourselves of this so that it doesn't just concern ourselves with christiansborg chips. And also thanks to the SF for presenting its concrete proposals, which are, of course, in complete continuation of what the SF also said on 9 November, even a little sharper, so one can only be happy about that. And I would like to say again that the other conciliation parties could learn something from that style. I do not see the problem at all in the fact that you are involved in a conciliation and that, when you have an evaluation process, you report clearly, also to the public, the electorate and the colleagues in the Folketing, what your ambitions really are. And then I would like to thank you for the clear reports that have come, even though some of them are a little depressing. These are clear statements by the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance that they see no reason to make early retirement easier. On the other hand, I should like to point out that this is actually the ambition of the Social Democrats, which is also in line with Mette Frederiksen's statements. I may say it too hard, I do not know, but then the Social Democrats must reject it later and that the Left is not entirely opposed to discussing it. So there are some nuances that you can only, even if you are outside the compromise, wish a good deal comes out of. So that's what you're gonna want. Apart from that, I do not think there are so many points for the conciliation parties, except SF. For what would be reasonable in such a debate was, of course, that it was quite specific to say what was our response to the solutions we see in concrete answers. But that is the way it is, and these are the conditions. Finally, I would just like to say that I think there are a lot of people outside the Folketing who are really disappointed, and there will be in here as well. There may be some who suspect the Enhedslisten that it would be nice if they could not agree on a goddamn apology, President, that is said and cannot be changed and then we can stand and point fingers at them. No, all the debates initiated by Enhedslisten have been about bringing forward this discussion so that we can get some concrete improvements for the people involved. And that is why we also voted in favour of it when, at last, there was a slight improvement in June last year. But I think many people will think that this is incredible: this reform has worked for six years now, and the conciliation parties and the Folketing have all contributed to it and spent more than a year and a half evaluating it. If, then, there is no concrete result before the parliamentary elections, a great many people will be disappointed. That is why I would also like to reiterate my call to the Social Democratic Party and the SF, which I see as being those closest to the Enhedslisten and, for that matter, the views of the Alternative and the Danish People's Party. If it goes too slow with those other conciliation parties and if they do not want to go into the excellent points that both the SF and the Social Democrats have sketched out, then there is a nearby solution, and that is to start negotiations with three other parties that can deliver the majority that is needed, and then we can make a good agreement before the elections and make it come into force after the election of the Parliament. So good work on this to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405130303	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I would like to stress that it is not the President's intention to correct anyone, but I would just like to mention it because the very thing about quotes has been discussed in the Bureau. So I think I would at least inform you about it. The vote on the proposal for adoption tabled here will take place only on 9 April 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190405130336	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 9 April 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
