ParlaMint-DK_20191101100005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Liselot Blixt (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 21 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of referral requirements for physiotherapy). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100046	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug of Social Democracy. Are there any other rapporteurs from the Social Democratic Party who will present the party's position on the bill? Yes, there is a rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. I give the floor to Mr Jeppe to Bruus on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100127	Thank you. I regret the confusion, but of course I am pleased to be able to say that the Social Democratic Party is of course in favour of this bill, which is of course about giving both the police better investigative possibilities in relation to interrogation and the courts up-to-date means of conducting the trials that are there. In this way it also reflects that supporting the judiciary in Greenland is a priority for us as social democrats and for this government, and that is why this is one of several legislative initiatives, I think we will see during this reign. And I look forward to the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100215	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left Party, I suppose, because I saw the rapporteur in the hallway. Well, that was another rapporteur. I move on to the order of the party, since the rapporteur of the Left is not present in the Chamber, and so I move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted. And this is the first reading of Bill No. L 11. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100314	Thank you for that, President. It all of a sudden went fast; I thought there were a few in front of me. This concerns L 11 on the law on the administration of justice for Greenland, and I have to say that since the Danish People's Party's Greenland rapporteur, Mr. Søren Espersen, who cannot be present in the Chamber today, has asked me to explain the position of the Danish People's Party on the bill. After all, this is actually a legislative proposal which we discussed in April and which was examined in the Greenland Committee before the elections, which is why it should actually be a purely expedition matter. There are several good reasons to support L 11. We make it easier in the administration of justice to operate with sound recordings of statements and explanations, and in line with what is happening in Danish courts, we introduce modern rules where a highly specialized DNA science makes it possible to improve police investigation. The bill also contains improvements for the court in Greenland, which would very much like to lead to shorter processing times. So all in all, it is a clear upgrade of how the legal system works in Greenland. And I understand that our friends from Greenland are satisfied with the changes here after what has happened in the Greenland Committee earlier, and that is why the Danish People's Party can of course also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100438	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the line is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100447	Thank you. I haven't tried to speak as a second party before, so it's a great honor. Thanks to the Left and the Social Democrats for just getting a few minutes late in the Chamber; you are growing in importance here. But joke aside. We can also support this bill. It is, of course, a re-submission of a bill from before the parliamentary elections, in which we could also support it. It is an improvement in the law on justice in Greenland, which Greenland itself also supports and which we therefore also intend to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100515	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100533	Thank you. I am here on behalf of our Greenland rapporteur, Karsten Hønge. And I am equipped with an ultra-short speech, but since others have been kind enough to repeat what the proposal is about, I shall confine myself to saying that we are of course also in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100538	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100604	Thank you. I shall support previous rapporteurs, who have so well explained what the draft law contains, and just announce on behalf of the Enhedslisten's Greenland rapporteur, Mr. Christian Juhl, who unfortunately could not be here today, that Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100611	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I see no rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, I move on to the rapporteur's list and thus to the rapporteur from the alternative. And this is sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100627	Thank you for the floor. It says in my notes that the Socialist rapporteur should welcome the alternative, but since the Socialist rapporteur is also absent, I think that, on behalf of the alternative, I would say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100643	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Socialist rapporteur is right now present in the Chamber, and it is true that the Social Democrats have also said that they support the bill. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and I am pleased to note that there is a rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Welcome to Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100700	Thank you. The Law amending the Code of Civil Procedure for Greenland contains four amendments, taken together, which improve the Law on Civil Procedure in Greenland. New citizens, of course, fully support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100715	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Welcome to sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100736	In the Liberal Alliance, too, we support this sensible bill, which helps to ensure that the law on justice in Greenland does not lag nearly as far behind the law on justice in Denmark. And that's common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100739	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101100747	Thank you. Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the improvements that are being initiated with this bill because it helps to strengthen the justice area in Greenland. It is no secret that the justice area in Greenland needs an ongoing and systematic upgrade, and it is a joint work that we are doing in these years, but we are certainly not in the end. Parts of this bill have entered into force 8 and 13 years ago in Denmark, but only now can it come into force in Greenland. And that is why we also have to ask ourselves why the rights in Greenland do not come into force until so many years later. And if we in the Folketing can help to change that, we also believe that this is something that is important to do because, alternatively, we are helping to hold back the social development in Greenland. That is why we also support the recommendation of the Institute for Human Rights to implement national legislation as soon as possible, and we believe from Inuit Ataqatigiits that there is a need for a systematic review of the area of justice, for example. in a Justice Commission which deals with obsolete legislation in Greenland and which also looks at procedures for effective political treatment of legislative proposals, so that they do not take many, many years until they also enter into force in Greenland. Otherwise we will always lag behind here in the Folketing when it comes to matters relating to Greenland. Basically, we support the bill, but we have a few comments to make. We support all the improvements that are being made to sexual abuse of children, and we welcome the fact that the bill strengthens Killiliisa, the Naalaksuisut strategy for combating sexual abuse. We also find that the actions in relation to sound recording, DNA tests and the appointment of an extra judge at the court in Greenland are all helping to ensure a more effective court proceedings, which we have called for. However, we do not believe that we are in line with this bill, but that further steps should be taken to strengthen the sense of justice in Greenland. When the bill was tabled for the first time, among other things, it was: the technical equipment for sound recording is not in place, and we call for funds and equipment to be in place when the law comes into force. We also support the appointment of a representative from the public authorities to the Greenland Crime Prevention Council, and we believe that this should also be done in relation to the Greenland Judicial Council. Finally, we support the recommendation for a permanent place for the national defender in both the Greenland Crime Prevention Council and the Greenland Judicial Council, as we believe that knowledge from this new office helps to strengthen the work. Finally, we would like to point out that both time and money should be set aside to prevent dangerous personal crime in Greenland. We have 34 times as many rapes and assaults on children in Greenland as you have in Denmark, so this is really an area where we believe that there should be a special focus on strengthening justice and, in particular, prevention. Finally, Greenland's very scattered habitation also makes it sometimes difficult to implement a bill because we live as widely as we do. That is why it can be said that improvements in this new bill must benefit both cities and settlements in our view. And so we will also repeat our call for the police to be present everywhere so that we can be protected against this crime. This is particularly true in the settlements, and we would point out that all settlements should have at least one municipal bailiff. With these words, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101133	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam from Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101144	Thank you for the floor. After all, the draft law, L 11, amending the law on the administration of justice for Greenland, aims to strengthen the quality of justice in Greenland. The main point of the draft law is, among other things, the following: to provide more flexible access to sound recordings of explanations given during hearings. This is so that you can give access to reproductions of the explanations in criminal cases, and this can ultimately make the process faster and easier. We from Siumut think that's good. It is also important for Siumut in the Folketing to point out that, as the one who gives the explanations, as is the case now, one should still have the opportunity to give a further explanation of what was thought if there was something that could be misunderstood. In addition, the draft law has also revised the rules on body testing. This means, in this case, that during an investigation, DNA samples can be taken from defendants for later identification. This helps to ensure help for victims of sexual abuse, and this should therefore be seen in the context of inter alia. Naalaksususut's strategy for assault cases, called "Killiliisa - Let's set limits." Standards for the Court in Greenland also ensure that an additional judge is appointed at the Court in Greenland, right now there is only one, and an extra judge ensures even more that it is possible to focus on a shorter length of proceedings. In addition, the proposal concerns the composition of councils and boards, which are now being revised, so that the assignment is also strengthened, since Kanukoka, the National Association of Greenlanders, was closed last year. This bill helps to strengthen the law on justice in Greenland, which is very much needed; the proposal helps to help victims of sexual abuse; with the proposal, the processing time can also be reduced; and the task performance is strengthened by the revision of councils and boards. If this is done correctly, we in the Folketing can ensure that the justice area in Greenland, which is a Danish responsibility, gives Greenland a law on the administration of justice, the standard of which is more like the Danish one. It is good for democracy, it is good for the division of power, and therefore Siumut in the Folketing supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101434	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101448	Thank you, President, and also thank you to the President for understanding that I was late and that I could just come on here now. There is no excuse for that. I had expected the Social Democrat rapporteur to make a very, very long speech in which he praised the fact that this bill came from the previous government. But, of course, that is no excuse for being late. I'm really happy about this bill, too. The main reason why I think this is a good bill is precisely that it highlights both the ability to develop jurisdictional jurisdictions, but also the possibility of an extra judge at the Court of First Instance in Greenland, not least in view of the problems that have been encountered with far too long procedural times at the Court of First Instance in Greenland. And that is not acceptable. We must ensure that there are equal conditions, regardless of what part of the Kingdom community you are in. Of course, there are some other geographical differences in Greenland that must be taken into account when it comes to interrogations etc. But we must ensure that the processing times are the same with those in the rest of the community. Then I also hope that the government will listen to the good suggestions that came from IA, from Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, even though it is not directly related to this bill on more settlements and increased presence in some of the smaller settlements around Greenland. Because this is one of the areas that I know is important for Greenland. So in those words, I would like to thank you for a good bill, not least because it comes from us. And we support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101631	Thank you to the rapporteur. That is the way the rapporteur has been implemented and the Minister for Justice is now allowed to talk about the bill. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101648	Thank you. I sat there and was so pleased with the very great love of the rapporteur of the Left for the government. It then turned out that it was love for the previous government, and it is also quite all right. Thank you for your very positive contributions. And it is true that it is a proposal which it has been dealt with in Greenland, and the autonomy has dealt with it, been positive about it, and now it is being negotiated under this government. It is being put forward again, and we are, as everyone can see, taking a positive view of it. One question has been raised and I think that is relevant: why is this proposal only coming now when it was implemented in Denmark in 2015 and 2010? And the answer to that is that, as a government, we want a positive and equal partnership in the Kingdom community based on trust and mutual respect. And the development of the justice area in Greenland is a priority for me. However, it is also true, as has been said, that there is a backlog in the legislative work that we must overcome. It is quite natural to work on a standard which corresponds to the standard that we have in Denmark. And that is why the Ministry of Justice has also strengthened the focus on Greenland back in 2018 by adding what is called the North Atlantic Unit, additional staff forces, just as the unit has become its own office with a Head of Unit. After all, we are constantly discussing with Naalakkersuisut which cases relating to Greenland should be given priority in the area of the Ministry of Justice, and we also have an ongoing dialogue. So I should just like to thank you for the good speeches and hand over the proposal for the further positive treatment of the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101846	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101850	Thank you very much to the Minister and also to the draft law, which was tabled in fact on the day when the elections were held. So we actually had our rapporteur's speech in the drawer, but we have so updated. In Greenland we have a discussion about the rape of children, because it is the law in Greenland that says that not all attacks on children are considered rape. It is important in relation to the extent of the penalty. So I would like to know whether a tightening is something that the government is willing to look at in relation to the fact that in principle any abuse of children should be regarded as a rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101101936	I myself have had a meeting with the Greenland Minister for Justice and I also have an agreement with her to have the opportunity to come up and look at the Greenlandic justice area this spring. Do you need to tighten up? There are also other requests for tightening up sanctions. Whether to tighten up, I will not depend on what the Greenlandic attitude is. If the Greenlandic position is that this should be done, I will also support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102006	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102008	Thank you very much. In Denmark, you look at the possibilities of tightening up if a convicted sex offender, for example. stays near a child, that is, that there must be a certain length, according to whether they can approach the child. Is this something you could also look at in relation to Greenland, because it is at least as relevant for Greenlandic children, although there may be some geographical challenges about it? At least this helps to strengthen the child's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102036	I fully agree with that, and it is one of them. one of the legislative proposals that we will be dealing with later in the Chamber today, precisely the question of how to ensure that convicted sex offenders are shielded from being able to commit further abuse. If there is a corresponding desire on the part of Greenland, we will also take a very positive view of it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102102	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102117	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102132	Thank you. In 2007, a pedagogic assistant is convicted of numerous sexual assaults against 13 children in a kindergarten in Beder. He gets three years in jail. On the way, while he's serving, he changes his name, and then moves to another part of the country. Here he comes into contact with two sisters in connection with joint activities in the housing association where both he and the girls live. He sits on the bench, which is a meeting place in the residential area, making jewelry. The girls are 3 and 8 years old. For three years he assaults them, and in 2018 he is found guilty of gross sexual abuse by the two sisters, among others. in several attempts and executed anal rape against the oldest of the girls. It is, of course, terrible to stand and say from this fine platform, but it is nothing compared to the abuse that all the children in this case have been subjected to, and the life that both the children involved and their relatives must live. Unfortunately, this is not a unique case. That shouldn't happen at all. I don't want that to happen. This bill is meant to help prevent this from happening. The draft law is part of a comprehensive effort, which is, of course, among other things. is about giving better treatment to convicted persons during serving, by working together between the authorities to avoid further abuse. Finally, what is at the heart of the bill here, that is to say, a ban on sentenced persons being sentenced after serving sentences being able to stay with or be near children, also in addition to the crime scene where the crime was committed. Firstly, the scope of residence bans will be extended not only to areas near the crime scene, but also to other areas, playgrounds, housing associations where there are children, institutions, etc. This ban must be possible even when it is assumed that there is a danger that the sentenced person will be able to commit new similar crimes after serving. And as something new, in future it must also be given unlimited time. Secondly, the supervision of convicted sex offenders will be strengthened and the police will be able to carry out unannounced supervision of the enforcement of bans by convicted persons. Among other things, the police must: as part of the supervision without a court order could examine the place of residence of the convicted person, including letters and other papers. Thirdly, the police must be able to pass on information to the holders or managers of companies and institutions etc., i.e. where the persons who have been prohibited from staying in the company or institution concerned are. Finally, fourthly, we want to increase the penalties for violation of the ban from 4 months to 2 years in prison. As I said, this is part of a holistic effort in which you, among other things, are involved. will strengthen the treatment of convicted paedophiles, etc., the qualification of prison staff working with these people, and also, in particular, strengthen cooperation between relevant authorities. It must therefore be seen as part of a holistic effort, and not surprisingly, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102438	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102505	One assault on one child, that's one too much. Society must stand ready to help a child if it is subjected to sexual abuse, and at the same time also ensure that the perpetrator is punished and does not attack children again. As the previous rapporteur has just said, there have been a number of cases of convicted sex offenders who have committed new abuses after serving their sentences. This has shown that there is a need to strengthen efforts in this area. That is why we are very pleased that the government has chosen to resubmit this bill tabled by the former government of V, K and LA. We've got one of them. seen cases where a convicted sex offender has traveled to another part of the country to commit new abuses against new children in another municipality, and that simply must not happen. So the draft law expands geography as to where a ban can apply. Just because the crime has been committed somewhere doesn't mean it's the same place next time. With the bill we can therefore prohibit a convicted person from staying in swimming pools and in parks and on beaches in a particular municipality or in several municipalities. Hopefully, then, you can prevent the sexual offenders from committing new attacks in another swimming pool, in another playground or something like that. The draft law also makes it easier for the courts to issue a ban and that, as a starting point, they are subject to time limits. At the same time, the sentence will be lifted if the convicted sex offender violates the ban. It sends a sharp signal to the convicted sex offender that, for example, if he does. will not go into treatment, then the consequences and supervision will be harder. The monstrous cases that we have seen, where municipalities have not managed convicted sex offenders in their municipalities, show that there is a need for the bans to be enforced in a much more effective but also much more systematic way. That is why the police must monitor more closely that the convicted person complies with the ban imposed on him. This means that the municipality must make unannounced visits to the sentenced person and that the police must be able to investigate, for example. the convicted person's computer, telephone and the like without a court order, precisely so that the convicted person cannot continue the terrible activities that lie behind it, just as the police are given the opportunity to continue with information on a ban on a sex offender to the holders and boards that may be, by companies and institutions, it could be swimming halls or sports halls, as is the case here, precisely so that we can help prevent new abuses from taking place. In other words, this bill sends out a clear signal that child abuse is not something that society accepts and that society takes a responsibility to stop these abuses. So, of course, the initiatives here can be fully supported by the Left, and we can do so, among other things. It is clear, too, that it is a re-submission of a legislative proposal that we ourselves tabled at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102835	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no desire for short remarks. In this way, we proceed in the rapporteur's line to the Danish People's Party and to Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101102850	Thanks to the government for resubmitting this proposal. It is, after all, a proposal that aims to tighten up more sharply against sex offenders. As far as criminals are concerned, who commit a really serious criminal act against other people in the way we see it, not least against children, but there we have an obligation from society to be much more strict in terms of monitoring those concerned and ensuring that they do not escape from the demands we make on them, even after they have endured their punishment. It has to be said that, as Mrs Inger Støjberg also mentioned, there have unfortunately been some real, ugly cases where paedophiles have proved to be continuing their crime, even after they have been punished and are out, but where municipalities have had very little surveillance of them. It has done so that new attacks have taken place. We cannot benefit from this, and therefore it is good that the government continues the line of the previous government, which was also inspired by the Danish People's Party, namely that there was a harder consequence when it is that we have these cases. What you have to look at, of course, is whether this is enough, i.e. whether we are in the finish line when we introduce these measures. It is clear that when we look over the proposal, we may not have a belief that it is possible to intercept all the cases in which some take advantage of the freedom to commit new abuses after they have been given freedom. That is why we are also looking in the Danish People's Party for some tightening up in relation to this proposal, and we will not rule out that we will come up with proposals in committee to tighten up some of these areas. It is, after all, about the length of time that exists for the demands made on those concerned. We therefore have no need for time limits. The proposal mentions the 1 5 years which can be used in some cases. We do not see any need to have a time limit, but rather we see that when one finds that one believes that the person concerned is able to take care of himself without committing any further abuse, then one can give time off in relation to the demands we make here. We also have the view in the Danish People's Party that we should introduce medical castration of paedophiles. When it's the case, for example, that you... Not as a paedophile will accept treatment when you are in prison, yes, there is a great risk that at some point on the other side of a sentence you can commit new crime. And there are very good results so-called medical castration. For then you are unable to be driven by the morbid desire you have to be with children. So there are some areas here that we would like to be clearer about the proposal, not so to understand that we are going to say no to the proposal, because it is a step on the way. We would just like to go further, because we do not believe that this proposal in itself will save our society from all the cases where some who are driven by this morbid desire will continue their efforts on the other side of their punishment. But all in all there are positive vibrations on the part of the Danish People's Party, and we support it, but we would like to go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101103237	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no requests for short remarks, and so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101103248	Thank you. Allow me to begin by making a few remarks about being here on the platform for the first time, so I may go perhaps 1 or 2 minutes over time. For the last time I was allowed to speak in the Assembly Hall, I did it down from the back row, and now it has become possible to come up here and how good you look from up here. I was a little excited if the elevator worked when I first came up here, because it's always a little exciting the very first time. Coming up here is a small roll for me, but I hope that it is a big roll for even more people to have the opportunities I have been given, that even more people can achieve their dreams and create hope, no matter what the conditions are, that we make Denmark the land of opportunity. Because we will only be stronger as a society if we are all allowed to contribute what we can, each one of us. Because no one can do anything, but everyone can do something, and together we can do even more. And I will contribute everything I can from up here and in daily work. In the 9th grade, I was hospitalized 30 days after surgery, and it was really boring. I saw debates on the Parliamentary Channel on DR2 all day long... some would say that it was even more boring... and they had never seen anyone in the children's ward do that at that time, but that made the slow days go a little faster. And I said then that I was hoping it would be me one day, but I don't really know if I believed it. And that's why it's a special moment for me to be up here. But at the same time I also feel like Elna Elna, who in 1918 was the first woman here on the Parliament's platform. Because, as she said, she was probably the first female politician on the platform, but first of all she was radical. So I shall now move on to the legislative proposal. The draft law consists of six elements: scope of residence bans, conditions of residence bans, supervision under residence bans, duration of residence bans, further notification of residence bans and penalty restrictions. I would particularly like to talk about the three or four first elements, because we will have ample opportunity to discuss the details of the committee's proceedings. So I would like to start by stating, like the previous rapporteurs, that there is no one who has a single gram of sympathy for sex offenders, so that is not our position on what is in any way under discussion today. The first part of the draft law deals with the scope of residence bans, and on the part of the Radical Left, we think it makes good sense that, as today, it cannot be confined solely to a crime scene, but that it is a defined area. For it must be based on a concrete and individual assessment and not just on where a crime has taken place. But it also raises a question of what a defined area may consist of. Could it be all of Copenhagen? And what if you call the Rigshospitalet? Can it cover an area where you have real estate in which you cannot stay? And can it be an area in which your family lives, where you have not committed any abuse, and where you suffer from association with your family, which is a violation of family life? This is also what is in the legislative notes that could potentially constitute an intervention in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. Then there is the question of conditions. Today it is the case that if you get a residence ban, a residence ban, a visitor ban or a contact ban, it can be given if there is a obvious risk of repeat crime. Now it is being changed to merely endangering it, and the Radical Left will be asking questions about exactly what it means to go to the slightly vague wording, that is, from immediate danger to just danger. It seems a little vague, and we would like that legal certainty to be clarified. What we are also concerned about then is the fact that the residence ban is, as a starting point, made open-ended. It is enough to go a little too far and to restrict freedom of movement a little over what is necessary. And I wonder if the same purpose can be achieved in any other way. Then there is the question of the new supervision, and this is probably where it is most difficult for me. For the new supervision is that during this period of time, without a warrant at all times, the police can search a former convicted person's residence, and that is therefore very intrusive and probably also for Should you, when you have endured your sentence, live with a constant fear of being a suspect and of the police storming your home, reading all your text messages and emails about private matters without a warrant? It is enough to go a little far, and that is precisely what we consider to be a preventive measure, so that criminal justice can be avoided. This is probably a small challenge of the European Convention on Human Rights, and that is something that we are going to question. Because the determining factor for whether it is illegal or not is whether the intervention can be described as necessary, i.e. whether the same purpose can be achieved by other means. That argument is not raised in the legislative notes, we think, at least, so we need to hear the Minister's assessment of that at some point. We think this is a rather lenient approach to the European Convention on Human Rights. I am also concerned about the many resources involved. We're tying the police to do this new bureaucratic supervision work, and the police are plentifully under pressure. So overall, it's the thumb down from the radical left. However, we can certainly support the amendment proposed by the Minister so that we do not penalise retroactively. We look forward to the committee's proceedings. There's a lot to be done to make things right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101103927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, so the rapporteur must remain on the floor for a short while. Sir. Jep Bruus of Social Democracy, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101103937	Thank you. I just think there's an opportunity to mark this historic event. Congratulations to the rapporteur, both for being elected to the Folketing, but also for actually being able to move all the way up to the platform. I think that is a very good thing, and it is also, I think, very good of the previous President of the Danish Parliament to actually take the initiative that it was, of course, possible to organise the Chamber in this way. After all, the rapporteur refers a little boldly back to other Radicals who have been standing on the platform for the first time, but I also hope that others in wheelchairs other than Radicals will have the opportunity in the future. To the substance of the draft law, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to comment on this with a time limit, since it is an interference in freedom of movement. In other words, imposing a ban on residence in different places and supervising it is certainly a matter of interfering with freedom of movement. Is that something that Radicals object to?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104043	Thank you for the very kind opening remarks made by Mr. Jep Bruus. The Radical Left has reservations about changing this time limit of 1 to 5 years, which has previously been and is currently in place, to have a starting point that is time-limiting. That is the change from one to five years to the fact that it must now be open-ended, which we see very serious concerns about. If such action is to be taken, it must be justified as necessary by the European Convention on Human Rights. That is the necessity that we do not think is being lifted in the legislative notes, and that is what makes us very doubtful about the change that has been proposed here. We have nothing against a residence ban, it makes sense in several cases, but a time limit may be going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104135	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104137	However, I am sure that the rapporteur is also aware that it can be verified, in other words that the sentenced person can ask the prosecution to check this after five years and then on a regular basis. So the starting point here is that there is the possibility of imposing this long-term residence ban, but that there is also the possibility of having it verified.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104158	I have read the entire legislative proposal, and I can confirm it to the rapporteur. But the only thing is that we go from a starting point of 1-5 years to an unlimited period of time, and that is the change that is not being raised sufficiently in the legal notes, that is to say why it should be necessary. So it's about the change. I know it can be tested after a while, but what if you don't get through with it? Then it's really, really many years you suddenly get this residence ban in, and it's very offensive once you've served and been punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104237	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104242	Thank you. I would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the fact that it was possible to get up on the platform and give the speech. Moreover, we must also take care in this House to ensure that the challenges that are still going around our house are resolved so that everyone can move around the Folketing without any problems. We must work together on this, as did the former Bureau and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, who chaired it. Having said that, I just have a question for the bill itself, L 9, because we in the Danish People's Party are a little uncertain about what it means when the Radicals question a lot of basics in this bill. Sir. Jep Bruus referred to one of them: where is it that the Radicals want to go with it? What I'd like to ask, sir. Kristian Hegaard on, is: Does all of these objections mean that the Radicals will vote against the bill to put tougher and better on those who commit attacks against other people after they have served their sentences?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104401	Thank you for that, and thank you for the initial very positive comments made by Mr. Peter Skaarup, and not least thank you to Mr. Skaarup. Peter Skaarup's party colleague, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, who has initiated the process that made it possible to have this platform. I thank you very much for that. In relation to Mr. Peter Skaarup's question I must make it clear unequivocally that the Radical Left does not have a great deal of sympathy for sex offenders, and they must be vigorously attacked. But wise action must also be taken so that there is no repeat crime. We must also observe that legal certainty applies to all people, even when they have been punished. The reservations of the Radical Left are in relation to the fact that, after serving your sentence, one must live in constant fear that without a warrant one can suddenly search one's home, that others can read one's e-mails and text messages and all sorts of things. Those are the things that make it stick a little. But the changes linked to extending where this residence ban can apply, so that it does not only apply at the crime scene but applies to a defined geographical area, are, in my view, positive tactics for which the Radical Left would like to sign.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104520	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peter Skaarup for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104523	Thank you. It was actually more to find out completely the conclusions of the Radicals, because apparently there are some things that have not grown in the Radical Left and that are not really satisfied with. Does this mean that the Radicals will say no to the proposal we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104542	As has been pointed out now, the Radical Left thumb turns down to the entire bill, but we think that there are some positive tactics in a few elements of the bill, for example the fact that the residence ban can no longer be linked only to a former crime scene and the geographical area in connection with it, but that it can change to be a concrete and individual assessment of when it might be relevant in relation to a defined geographical area. These are basic things at stake here. This is to carry out criminal proceedings, at least in the same way as in criminal proceedings, that you can do so without a court order. That is what stands for the Radical Left. And that's why we mainly turn our thumbs down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104629	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his willingness to speak and for a successful debut on the platform. Now there are no more brief comments on this occasion, and so we proceed in the order of speeches. The next rapporteur on the platform is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101104702	Thank you. It was a lovely sight to see, sir. Kristian Hegaard up here. I hope that will become many more times, but I will not say much more about it. I think a lot has been said about this already and also many appreciative remarks, and that is very nice. I would like to start by saying that I have absolutely no sympathy for people who commit abuse against children. The sacrifices they make are marked for life, and I therefore simply support the idea that they should have nothing to do with children and that they should stay away from the places where children go. We therefore fully support the extension of the ban on the presence of children, and we also believe that it is fair enough that the hammer should fall harder, that more severe punishment should be imposed if that ban is violated. But having said that, I would say that it is a violent procedure to say that because you have been convicted once, the authorities must be allowed to search your home for the rest of your life and examine your belongings without a warrant, understood. We cannot support this and we will work to reclaim a warrant, and we will also continue to work on time-limiting. We believe that a basis of suspicion should be the starting point for such far-reaching intervention. If you look at the answers to the hearings, it is also exactly one of them. The Institute of Human Rights and Justitia contest. Then it may well be that I put too much into it, but I also think that the police between the lines do not quite express an enthusiasm that they are entrusted with the task of doing this supervision. They say in the hearing answer that the police are being charged with another task that deviates from the police's usual duties. I think that this is their nicest way of being loyal and saying that they are not quite enthusiastic about it. Why not? I shall then not be able to make myself wise, but we may be able to dig that out during the committee procedure. As I said, we share the intention that fewer sex offenders should commit new crime, but there are also several things in the bill that are out of proportion, and that is why we will be working on this and we cannot support it in the current form. Finally, I would like to say that I also hope that the proposal will be followed by more help for the victims of abuse. The things that have been set in motion are primarily about the perpetrator. I think we've all got a letter this week from exactly a victim of assault. She tells us very clearly about the consequences of living with late followers after an assault. It is self-paying for a lifelong need for psychological assistance. It is teeth that are damaged by the medication that is absolutely necessary for her to have a reasonably tolerable life. She can't afford to go to the dentist because she ended up on an early retirement. It is the whole fight to try to maintain a job, to try to be on the labour market, which will then end up with an early retirement pension and the fight for it. I think there is much more we can do for the victims, and I think we owe it to the victims to address this, so I hope we can have a discussion on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105033	Thank you. There can be no doubt that any abuse committed against a child is one too many. In fact, I fully agree with that, and it is rare that I agree with Mrs Inger Støjberg, as she also started her speech by saying. I would also just like to emphasise that it is extremely serious when we talk about sex crimes, and that is why I would also like this bill to actually make an effort to stop it, in other words to make sure that fewer sex crimes were committed. On 15 March of this year, when Parliament examined Bill No. L 173, which was broadly the same as the proposal we are debating today, said some very sensible things to Mrs Trine Bramsen, the then rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party. She said, among other things, and I quote: 'We must be careful to give people a stamp, a brand. So the Danish legal system does not work that way. "And then Mrs Trine Bramsen added that she had doubts as to whether the bill was within the framework of how we normally practice legislation. Because, as she said, and I quote: 'It must not be the case that, when you come out and get your sentence, you can be followed for the rest of your life. There is legal certainty, including for sexual offenders. And I think those were wise words from Mrs Trine Bramsen back in March; she expressed some quite serious concerns about the bill which the then Conservative Minister of Justice, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, had submitted. That is why it is now surprising that the government of which Mrs Trine Bramsen is a member is putting forward a legislative proposal which is extremely similar to what she herself stood up to and spoke against. From the point of view of Enhedslisten, we have not changed our mind since March and there are many problems in the bill that the Socialist Government has taken over from the bourgeois government and now made its own. According to the proposal, there no longer has to be a nearby danger of an offence before a stay ban can be notified. The main rule must be that a stay ban is granted without a time limit, and the police, under the bill, must carry out unannounced supervision without a warrant. Honestly, I find it difficult to see how this proposal envisages maintaining any legal certainty whatsoever for those people who have been convicted at some point of a sex crime and who, of course, we should like to get back on track and back on track. There should not be a judge's eyes on the police's desire to search the person's home, and the convicted person can look forward to being subject to these conditions without a time limit, i.e. in principle for the rest of your life. And we are talking here about citizens of Danish society, for whom section 72 of the Constitution on the inviolability of the dwelling has been completely nullified, without a time limit and without a warrant. The Enhedslisten is in line with a wide range of warning consultation responses from among others. Institute of Human Rights, Council of Lawyers, National Association of Defence Attorneys and Justitia. The current rules on bans on convicted sex offenders should not be tightened further. And then I would like to repeat our current Minister for Defence and former Legal Rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Trine Bramsen's wise words: "There is legal certainty, also for sex offenders. In other words, Enhedslisten cannot support this bill, just as we could not in March either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105422	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105435	The bill is a re-submission of L 173, which we tabled when we were in government. This is a very sensible bill. It is our job as adults and politicians to help ensure that children in Denmark have a safe and good childhood, which is why we must also do what we can to prevent sexual abuse against children. That is a statement that I know all the parties in the Danish Parliament support. In the Conservative People's Party, we always believe that consideration for the child should be the most important, that consideration for the victim should be the most important. We owe it to the children that all means are used to prevent future abuse. We must provide the police with the tools they need to prevent child abuse. For us, therefore, it makes very good sense to extend the scope of the residence ban to convicted sex offenders, so that it also covers areas where there is a great risk that the convicted person may commit new similar crimes. If the ban is violated, it must have a clear and significant consequence. That is a fair legal policy in our view. For children who have been subjected to sexual abuse and their parents, following a sentence, must be able to sit back with a certainty that society has done everything possible to prevent these terrible attacks from happening again. We also believe that the police should monitor that the convicted person complies with the ban. By tightening up in this area, we are also helping the paedophiles who themselves have said that they are only happy that the police are there to keep an eye on them. As I mentioned earlier, all means must be used to combat child abuse. We owe it to the children, we owe it to their parents, we owe it to society. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105640	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the line is from the Alternative, and that is Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105657	In the alternative, we take up the consultation answers that have come to the bill from among others. The Institute of Human Rights, Legal Policy Association, Help Victims of Violence and the National Association of Defence Attorneys, and therefore cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105714	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund, and that is new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105729	Sexual crimes committed against children just the thought. I think that is how most people in this Chamber feel, regardless of what they intend to vote for this bill. Today, we are dealing first with a proposal for a law amending the criminal code to strengthen efforts in this area. This is needed after a number of specific cases have shown that convicted sex offenders have committed new abuses after punishment. There is a need for the supervision of sex offenders to be strengthened and for preventive action to be taken. If you have been convicted of a sex crime, it is good in my view if you are given a special and extended ban on staying with children and making contact with children. It is good that this proposal calls for the criminal framework for violation of the ban to be increased from prison for up to 4 months to prison for up to 2 years, and for the police to monitor unannounced compliance by convicted sex offenders with the ban. We have to protect the children throughout the Kingdom community. New Citizens note that this bill does not apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We encourage the Danish Parliament to implement similar laws both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. There must be a keen eye on the doing and barn of sexual offenders, so that more children do not become victims of the vile abuse of sexual offenders. That is why New Citizens support the proposed bill and I look forward to the forthcoming committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105926	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101105938	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, too, we support this bill, which is a re-submission from our own reign, but nevertheless this bill also shows that there are sometimes some fundamental dilemmas. As a liberal person, it would be thought that I have spent plenty of time discussing it lately, but nevertheless I will spend a little time on it now too. On the one hand, of course, we have regard for the individual, in other words the protection of fundamental freedoms, including legal certainty, and, on the other hand, we must protect citizens from abuse, and we have, like a community and a society in which it makes sense to restrict personal freedom if it is to prevent a major violation of the freedom of others. And here we are a little in a dilemma, where I think that we should not close our eyes to that. Because there are some things here that go quite far, for example, forever to prohibit certain people from staying in certain places, or that the police should have access to citizens' private property and homes without any court order. That is why it is important that we remember to have a balance and some proportionality. I can see from the hearings that Justitia has highlighted three things in particular. The first is a proposal that consideration should be given to limiting the duration of the residence ban. The second is in relation to this system of supervision, where the police can enter the homes of the convicted, namely that a clear legal framework is being set up for supervision, including that we in the Folketing can monitor the extent and intensity of police supervision. The third is that the transfer of information to private individuals should be considered to restrict or delete. And I really think it is three such reasonable objections and input from Justitia that we should discuss in the further work of the committee. But overall, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110132	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110150	Thank you. And thank you for your comments, both those who raise questions and those who absolutely support them. I would like to make a few comments. Mrs Rosa Lund of the Enhedslisten put it that way could at least be heard as if the former legal rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, the current Minister for Defence, Mrs Trine Bramsen, had not supported the proposal. I would just like to point out in all peace that when the proposal was first tabled, the Social Democratic Party also supported the proposal. I agree with the comments that have been made that, if we are to fight this kind of crime, which everyone has an interest in, there is no party in the Folketing that has not said that sexual abuse of children must be avoided, we are not doing it alone with this proposal. Sir. Peter Skaarup raised the question whether this bill would solve the problem. Others also asked if this proposal had been taken care of. I don't think it is, under any circumstances. I believe that some of the things that must also be borne in mind and which, among other things, must be borne in mind. Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt mentioned that it is also a question of how to prevent such crimes from happening, and of what was also raised, that we also need to focus on the victims. That's just not the point of this proposal. The question of prevention lies elsewhere. The issue of the treatment of victims also lies elsewhere, but these are the agendas that we will come back to and deal with, including in this Chamber. What is the aim of this proposal is to protect any new victims. One of the points raised in the debate here was the question: is it a legal problem that we go from the imminent danger to the danger of another abuse? Well, for me, that's one of the reasons for supporting this proposal. Who would move away from an area where it is said that we should intervene here if there is a danger of child abuse and then say: we must tighten that up, it is not enough that there is a danger of abuse, we must qualify for nearby danger? I think it is quite sensible to go the other way and say: No, if there is a danger of child abuse, society should mark and do what we can to minimise that danger. Then there is another question which has been raised: that is also one of the things we are given the opportunity to return to in the subsequent proceedings which is the question of court order or not. Well, there are a number of areas in addition to this, where you can say that we are taking action here, but where we do not require a court order. The court order is basically used in investigations, that is, in solving a crime. I know that when you have the legislation studied, you will find other examples around you, but we say basically and fundamentally that: court order is something we use when we suspect a crime to be investigated. That is to say, when you ask to be allowed to take these measures, for example, the courts are testing whether the action being taken is proportionate, whether there is sufficient suspicion, whether there are the criminal framework requirements that must be met and so on. It's kind of hard to imagine what the courts were supposed to do here, because this is just a check. It is simply a check that the conditions that are given are met. What kind of trial are the courts supposed to carry out? It is probably possible to construct it, but it is just to say that this is a different regulatory situation from where we apply court orders here it is a control regime. Without comparison at all, we have plenty of such control regimes in which we say that society has the right to check that conditions that we have imposed have been complied with without having to obtain a court order. Then there is one of the discussions that has been raised and it illustrates the debate very well: the one about supervision, which is about the fact that, as the clear starting point for the future, it is open-ended, where we come from a situation where it has been 1-5 years. In relation to this, the Danish People's Party says on the one hand: it does not go far enough. And on the other hand says, among other things: Radical Left and Enhedslisten: It is far too far-reaching to make it open-ended. This is a real and important discussion. I would just like to clarify a little by saying that in this case, as the one subject to the ban, after five years, we must be able to ask the question to be brought before the courts. Then it was mentioned: Yes, yes, but what if your ban is maintained after the five years? In fact, after two years you will be able to ask for this ban to be tried by the courts again. In fact, I think, in relation to the problem we are dealing with, that this draft law tackles in a sensible and relevant way an issue that we share in dealing with. It does not solve it, but it addresses an incredibly important corner of preventing more children, than is already the case, from being subjected to sexual crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110727	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110738	Thank you. As I announced earlier, I would like to ask a few questions about the need to take this view of necessity, which is reflected in the legislative notes. Because, as is quite rightly shown, this is a legitimate purpose. We all want to punish sex offenders, so we don't disagree on that. But what I would like to hear is whether it is the Minister's opinion that it is necessary in a democratic society, as is necessary if, under the European Convention on Human Rights, an intervention of this nature is to be carried out, that, when you have been punished, you must live with this supervision, that the police can search the citizen's home in good time, access e-mails and private messages, and include electronic means of communication, etc. Is it necessary in a democratic society to be able to do so without a court order, as described here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110832	When you answer that question or when we have that discussion, you should really put the European Convention on Human Rights aside for a moment, not because we do not have to comply with it, because of course we do. The assessment is also that this proposal complies with it. What one should ask oneself is really something else, because it is: do I think, and does my party think, that this is relevant and right to do? That is the question, after all, that is our political question. I think that we are a little too often in this Parliament too fresh to hide behind the European Convention on Human Rights or hide behind other international commitments we have undertaken. We have to peel them off, and then we have to ask ourselves what we mean. And just so no one gets it interpreted as if he is now telling us to get out of international cooperation. That's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying that we shouldn't hide behind them. This proposal remains within the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights. What we need to ask ourselves is whether it is reasonable and whether it is right to do this to ensure that there is no abuse going on in the future. And it's my opinion that that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110931	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101110935	Of course we must use the European Convention on Human Rights. That's why we're in it, so there's no reason to peel it away or put it aside. These are quite basic and elementary principles in our legal society that we attach ourselves to. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he believes that the same preventive objective, which is the purpose of this draft law, can be achieved in other ways, where we do not bypass elementary criminal procedural rules. Here it is called a preventive aim, and it is thus possible to avoid a court order under the criminal procedural rules. Could the preventive objective not be achieved in any other way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111017	Just to make this clear, my point was not that the European Convention on Human Rights should not be taken into account. My point was that sometimes we hide behind it. I am quite sure that this proposal is within the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights and the scope for action that we have, and that is why I think it is really necessary to ask whether it is a relevant and proper intervention, and I think it is. Then, of course, it is about how it will be designed and how supervision will be carried out, etc. And there you can organise it in a way that makes it as gentle as possible, as the draft law also shows.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111052	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111116	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111125	Thank you. Like the previous draft law, this is a re-submission with some adjustments to a proposal from the last period which was not completed due to the announcement of the election. After all, we know that far too many of those who end up in prison and serve their sentence in prison fall back into new crime when they return to the community. That's a problem. People sentenced to community service are less likely to fall back into new crime. That's a good thing. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Government, the last time we had power back in 2014 and 2015, we expanded the use of community service as a sanction. However, the penalty or penalty for a given crime must be proportional to the crime committed, and the victim who has been subjected to crime must also be taken into account, and in our democracy with the division of power it is up to us as legislators, the legislature, to define those considerations. After all, when we extended the use of community service back in 2015, it was intended to be used in cases of simple violence against people who had not been punished in the past. It was a good piece of legislation. But as it is with so much other legislation, sometimes it happens that it hits the world outside the Castle, and for some wonderful reason it is not always that the world outside the Castle takes the legislation down exactly the way we had thought it when we made the legislation. And that's kind of what's going on here. Since the legislation came into force in 2015, there have been examples of people who have been punished on several occasions, yes, we have an example of a person who has been punished five times in the past for perilous crime. There are also examples that persons who have committed crime against a defenceless victim may be a child who has been sentenced to community service. And there are examples of people who have left a victim with a large but perhaps both of a physical and of a psychological nature who have been sentenced to community service. That's not fair. In fact, that was not the intention when we made the legislative amendment back in 2015, and therefore there is a need to adjust the legislation so that the three aforementioned examples lead to unconditional prison sentences. For the sake of the victims in these cases, and for the sake of what we think is reasonable, for the sake of repeatedly committing the same crime, then the penalty is not community service, but unconditional prison sentences. Then there have also been a few things about gross violence, where the starting point today is that unconditional prison sentences should be imposed, and that is where we propose that the use of community services should be further restricted, so that it is only used if there are exceptional circumstances in favour of it. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111435	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111442	Thank you. In committee questions 464 from 2018-19, second session, it is reported after contributions from the Crime Service: • Despite the capacity expansions, criminal services expect an average annual capacity utilisation of just over 100 per cent in both 2019 and 2020. So the prisons are more than full. Then I would like to ask: what are the consequences of this draft law, which is even more unconditional in prison, on the already crowded prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111521	Yeah, well, if you're wondering if we shouldn't lock up gang members or people who have committed child abuse because we've filled prisons, then I think it's turning completely wrong. I think it is a scandal for our democracy if it is the case that we cannot impose an unconditional prison sentence on anyone for lack of places in prison. Then we will have to expand the places in the prisons, and that is one of them. What we have done with the agreement that has been made for the Department of Justice, where capacity is being expanded. But it seems quite wrong if we think that some people should have an unconditional prison sentence, they will not get it because there is no room.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111553	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111557	Gang members, we all agree to be locked up, so there's definitely no disagreement about it. Could it not be feared with what has been proposed here for §244-violence, that is to say, simple violence under section 244 of the penal code, where there are some minor repetitions, which may be subject to a small limit, and where the courts have today said that it was community service that was more relevant to the fact that then they went to prison, that some of those who were going to serve for a much more serious offence did not go to prison? Isn't it just gang members we risk not going to prison by just stuffing rubs and stumps in unconditional prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111640	No, and I also think it's a little irresponsible to sit down and say "rub" and "stump." There is, of course, an example here of a person who has been convicted five times in the past and then, during the probation period, commits new personal-dangerous crime, and then he gets a sanction with community service. I think that is quite unreasonable! It may also be an assault on a child. It's not rub and stump. As I began by saying, we extended the possibility of community service back in 2015, but there is a need to adjust, and I think it is a completely sick principle if it is the case that we cannot impose an unconditional prison sentence on people because there is no room. Then we'll have to make sure there's more room.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111715	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative... in case I say it correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111723	No, it wasn't exactly pronounced. Does that impress the rapporteur? And what is the rapporteur's position with regard to the Crime Prevention Council, which has told the Ritzau Bureau that if Bill L 10 is implemented, it will create more perpetrators and thus more victims of violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111751	Yeah, that makes an impression. That is also why I started by saying that we have a problem in our criminal services. Surely it is a huge problem that an excessive proportion of those we put away in prison fall back into new crime. We have to do something about that. It just does not change the fact that we are talking here about what the sanction should be for some types of crime. There is our position just in line with what was also the position of the then government, namely that these examples seem to us to go too far and that this is contrary to what was intended when we extended the use of community service as a sanction back in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111828	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique apostates. Then I have no more brief comments on the list, and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Inger Støjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101111842	If you are the victim of a violent crime, you should not risk running into your perpetrator on the street shortly after that. The concern for the victim, which is often left behind with both physical and psychic but, for us in the Left, weighs more heavily than letting a convicted of violence get away with community service because he has not previously been punished or has good personal relationships, for example. is at work. In addition, of course, the very sense of justice also weighs very heavily. We have seen examples of a person being sentenced to community service after he has committed violence five times and the fifth case of violence was even committed during the probationary period. We have seen examples of a perpetrator being sentenced to community service, despite the fact that the victim had been treated after serious injuries. We have even seen examples that a perpetrator has been sentenced to community service, even though the victim was a child. The sense of justice is being violated for a great many Danes, including myself, I can say when cases like these come out. That is why we are also very pleased that, as has already been said, the government is now resubmitting this draft law from the previous government, which is, of course, a legislative proposal which we unfortunately have not been able to deal with because of the elections. We recognise that community service can be a sensible form of sanction in some forms of crime, but there should be no doubt that society does not accept violent criminals and that in cases of violence, as a clear starting point, there must be unconditional imprisonment. This applies, firstly, to cases where the accused has been convicted in the past of violence or other perilous crime, and which must therefore be sentenced to prison. Secondly, in cases where violence has been committed against a particularly defenceless victim, for example. an elderly person or a child. Thirdly, in cases where the injured party has suffered no insignificant damage. So if we see this bill as a whole, I can sum it up in that way, with the bill here, we are getting the practice that has come over recent years, and which the Left already warned back in 2015 would happen if the use of community service, as happened under the former S-led government, was extended. That is why I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101112159	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Gundelach. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101112218	Thank you. In relation to this proposal, there is no doubt in the Danish People's Party that it is a proposal that is taking a step in the right direction. And, by the way, it is also a proposal that was on the wall before the parliamentary elections, where we meant the same thing. Again, in relation to this proposal, the question is whether we're gonna do the whole thing with it. And I would just point out that this proposal restricts the use of community service by violence in relation to section 244, but does not abolish the use of community service. And in relation to section 245, the government's proposal will only limit the provision of community services to exceptional circumstances. In the Danish People's Party we have the clear view that this is a step in the right direction, yes, but it is also the case that it is wrong that, if you have committed personal crime at all, you should be subjected to community service. I know that some people then say: yes, but in the case of community service there is less so-called relapse, that is, less relapse into crime than is the case when you are in prison. One can then just say that it is rather like comparing pears with apples or apples with pears, because those who are now being subjected to community service are a little difficult to compare with those who are currently in prison because those who are being subjected to community service have, after all, committed less serious crimes than those who are in prison. Therefore, the direct comparison can be a little difficult to make, even when it is running in the public debate. And I think that some of those who are traditionally very little interested in punishing for violence or at least running with relatively short prison sentences for violence are wrong. In relation to the Danish People's Party's view of community service at all, I can say that we believe it is important that we are much more sharp than is the case today. And those who receive someone who is to serve a judgment in the form of community service it may be a public authority, it may be a library or whatever it is also to be told what the person has committed by crime. This is not the case now; it will only be reported here if the place directly asks for the reason that it has entered community service, with the Department of Criminal Welfare. It is therefore important for us to be absolutely sure that the place where the person is in the community service should finally be maintained, and that the government should be able to do so, even in certain cases of violence, to be given clear information as to what is the reason for him or her entering the community service and what he or she has committed of crime. Basically, as I said, this is something that needs to be taken very carefully, that is to say, community service. I want to be more comfortable with the fact that it is a prison officer or someone with a background in the Department of Justice who has to do with a person who has done crime than, for example, a prisoner. a librarian. For it is hard for a librarian to understand what challenges it is, including security challenges that can be involved when it is someone who has beaten another human being into an act of violence. So in any case, as I said, the Danish People's Party is in favour of this proposal. This is going in the right direction, but there is still a long way to go until we can tell the Danes that we are not going to be in community service after committing violence and that now there is complete control of those who are going to be in community service. So with that I would just like to say that we will check and ask about some of these things during the committee's proceedings too, with the intention that there may be some amendments on the part of the Danish People's Party, not least if we think that we can get a majority for it together with some others. But we have the hope that this proposal will, after all, be adopted, because it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101112705	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101112712	And you guys still look good from up here! The bill here is about excluding community service in cases of repetition of simple violence under section 244 of the Penal Code, by violence against the defenceless victim, or where it has caused no negligible psychological or physical damage, and that, as a rule, no community service is provided by gross violence under section 245 of the Penal Code. The thought behind the bill seems to be prison, prison, prison. The Radical Left disagrees with the draft law for two reasons in particular. First of all, community service is the most effective method of sanctioning the reduction of relapse, especially for young people and for first-time offences. We must punish hard by repeating violence, but we must also punish wisely. It is quite inexcusable if, by punishing wrongly, we contribute to the re-crime of perpetrators. Recently, I met Ricki. To put it mildly, Ricki has been a worse one who has done a lot of what you shouldn't do. For the last six years, he's been clean and clean. In a P1 programme in the autumn he said that prison does the worst to people, and we should not insist on doing the worst to people, no matter what they have done. Secondly, we should not minimize the choice of sanctions by the judge, but should be confident that the judges will give the right punishment on the basis of what is presented in court. We should not be playing judges as politicians. In addition, in the hearing answer, the Court of Justice says that unconditional imprisonment is already the starting point for the cases mentioned. So it's purely symbolic politics and superfluous with this bill and I was about to say: as DF states, but I'd better say there: the judge's association takes charge of over 5,000 of these cases a year, and only a few give community service when special circumstances are presented in court. It may be that for the first time in 10 years he is in a job or the like. In the case of unconditional imprisonment following serious violence, the Supreme Court has already drawn up a fine practice as to when there should be unconditional punishment. There is talk here of cases of shorter sentences of liberty in the case of a young and unpunished person, or in the case of special cases in this and this context of good personal relations, or in the case of a completely spontaneous reaction, where violence has caused only limited damage. So let us have confidence that they will continue the good work in the courts. As the Institute of Human Rights also points out, it might also be a good idea to include a kind of de minimis limit in order to prevent inappropriate use of unconditional prisons, even if they are repeat cases, but at the mild end of section 244-violence. One might also ask whether this is really a legislative proposal, since it is rather a legislative proposal, because it is really only a question of language changes. The wording of Article 56 and Article 57 does not allow for the existence of a conditional judgment in accordance with the rules laid down in Articles 56 and 57. So the word has been exchanged only if the word exists, and it is also stated in the legislative notes that there are only linguistic changes to the text of the law, which are intended to enable the comments to specify detailed guidelines for the use of community services, and that is also why the consultation answers question whether it is not better for us to legislate on the basis of the legislative text, and not just on the basis of the legislative notes which are at issue here. In general, the Radical Left is concerned that the trend of exclusion of forms of sanctions and, in other cases, minimum penalties restricts the discretion of judges. We politicians must set a course, but not dictate the outcome to the courts. We have to leave that to the judges.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113214	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113219	Thank you. This follows on from the last point made by the rapporteur. The rapporteur also says at some point that we, as politicians, should not play judges and that we should rely on the judges to give the right judgments. In other words, I assume that the rapporteur and the Radical Left agree that we can set a penalty and also define the framework for the task of the judges. That is also what is meant by being a legislator, unless we have to give it all freely, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113257	Criminal sanctions can easily be imposed and, as has been said here, the choice of forms of sanctions can also be restricted. What the Radical Left is concerned with is that we trust that the courts can judge when it is relevant to have community service and when it is relevant to have unconditional imprisonment. There we are just worried that if you narrow this down, then suddenly it also narrows down in other cases, because there is just one matter, and then you have to act on it a little, and then you come up with a proposal of this nature. So we are so a little worried that we are constantly restricting the choice of sanctions by the courts, and that other places, if you work with minimum penalties, you do not do just that in this bill... you keep cutting off the salami and restricting the judge's ability to impose a sanction on the basis of what happens in court. I think that's up to the process that's going on in court.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113347	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113350	In principle, however, it is surely a political task to deal with what kind of sanction is involved in a crime that is committed. So it is also a political task to take a position on what kind of consideration we have to show to the victim, what kind of consideration we have to show for the victim's sense of justice, and on our common position on what sort of rules of play should be in this society. Then, of course, there will always be room for manoeuvre, and now we are narrowing it down very significantly here. But there is surely nothing in principle about the fact that, as a legislator, we are deciding what sanctions we want to be applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113431	It is certainly a political task to set a direction. But when the direction is to reduce the penalty that judges have and increasingly say that now, as politicians, you want to dictate what the outcome of a given decision should be, it is just that we are concerned that it will continue and it will continue to eat in, so that politicians believe that they should play judges, rather than that matters have their natural course in the courts, in those who are trained to do so, in those who understand it, and you let them set both the tough but also the wise punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113504	Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Balder Dark Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113540	Thank you. Today, I am going to make the comments of the SF rapporteur on the draft law, as Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is not in a position to be in the Chamber. I would like to start by saying that we do not support the bill. The purpose of the draft law is to limit the use of conditional sentence with conditions of community service in cases where the accused have previously been convicted of violence or other similar personal crime, in cases where the violence has been committed against a particularly defenceless victim, and in cases where the injured person has suffered no negligible damage. The clear basis of the draft law is that it must be decided with unconditional imprisonment and not community service. The lucky thing is that according to the Association of Judges and also the Association of Magistrates, it is the most important rule already. We agree with that too. However, in legal policy it is difficult to take account of the variety of cases. There will always be one very special case in which everyone can see that community service could be a good idea. That is why we believe that there should be an opportunity for an estimate for the judges in these cases. The Association of Judges and the Association of Judges also say that very detailed instructions for the choice between unconditional and conditional punishment will lead to unintended results in practice. The Minister may also say that there is still the possibility of an estimate, but what about the bill if it is not about limiting that estimate? Moreover, community service is often confused with softness or no punishment. That is not the case. We like the idea that in our leisure time we pay off to society to atone for what has been done, and victim studies show that the victims are very much in favour of reconstructing legal measures. In other words, they want us to do something with the perpetrator who works and who ensures that we avoid the next victim. That is where community service has its strength, because there is clearly less relapse than when we use prison. We therefore agree with the concerns of the Crime Prevention Council that we should not further restrict the scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113750	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101113801	Thank you. Denmark has a new government, and in many ways it is wonderful. It seems that we have not had a new legal policy, and I can only stand here and be a little sad about that. At least this is the case when you see the new government making the previous government's proposal to restrict the use of community services, which is the bill we are debating today. In the Enhedslisten we have also not got a new legal policy, so our arguments against this bill are the same as those of my party colleague Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm presented when the Danish Parliament dealt with the bill which the then Conservative Minister of Justice, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, had submitted. First of all, the starting point today is unconditional imprisonment by gross violence, and the courts are already emphasising, in the elections between prison and community service, whether there is repeated violence, whether the victim is particularly defenceless, and whether the victim has suffered considerable damage, that is to say, precisely the same conditions which already point to unconditional imprisonment. Secondly, this draft law is another example of the fact that the black majority in the law, which is apparently here in the Danish Parliament, will bind the courts on their hands and feet and detailed case law, as is also noted in the critical hearings which previous rapporteurs have mentioned here on the platform, among other things. from the Court of Justice Association. In the Enhedslisten, we want the Folketing to set the overall framework, but leave considerable scope for individual consideration and concrete balance to our quite excellent legal system and courts. Thirdly, we do not believe that the so-called consideration given by legislators to the general sense of law referred to in the comments to the draft law should stand in the way of sensible, individual and concrete decisions by the courts that decide the cases. The sense of justice, of course, means something when we make legislation. Of course, the sense of justice also means something when the courts give a penalty and make a penalty. But what also matters, and what should matter, is the reason for the law, in other words how we punish wisely. How do we punish to prevent further crime? In addition to the fact that the purpose of punishment is to do something for the sense of justice, the purpose of punishment is also to prevent crime. That is why we need to look at whether the penalties that we then impose are helping to prevent new crime. Are they helping to prevent the convicted one from committing crime again? Well, then, let's take a shot at the court of law here. Fourthly, unconditional prison is much more expensive than community service, so much more expensive. Sir. Kristian Hegaard has already explained earlier in this debate the current state of affairs and the overcrowding that unfortunately exists in our prisons. Fifthly, the situation remains, as has been pointed out in the Council's hearing reply, that the latest legislative amendment from 2015 has not yet been evaluated and that the new government does not seem to have intended to ask for an opinion from the Criminal Law Council on these changes. Instead, the Conservative Minister for Justice's bill has been retabled, and we obviously find that in the Enhedslisten is really, really a pity. Just as we could not support this bill in March, neither can we support it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114153	Thank you for that and there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114158	Thank you. Now that you listen to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, you hear words like the black majority, etc. Can we not agree that in 2015 we expanded the use of community service so that more people were sanctioned by community service and that we are now adjusting that legislation? That means that the whole basis of this exercise was, in fact, that we would use community service as a sanction in several cases. Then there have been a few cases which have proved to be inappropriate and which were opposed to what was intended in 2015. I have to say that I am a little surprised by the short-circuit that goes from the fact that we actually have a starting point where we use more community service, to the fact that it is now a black majority. In my world it is actually such an adjustment of something that was • I also think of Enhedslisten • backed up back in 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114302	It is absolutely true that in the Enhedslisten we supported the extension of the use of community service in 2015, and that is precisely why, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus, that we are really sorry that it is now being curtailed. I think it is really, really a pity that you haven't even intended to evaluate the scheme and the extension that was made in 2015, but that you are now dealing with this bill to reduce it without having had the Criminal Law Council to look at it without having made an evaluation of the scheme that was from 2015. We in Enhedslisten think that is really, really a shame. As far as the black majority in law is concerned, unfortunately, we have just seen in the Enhedslisten that there in Mr. Jeppe Bruus's party over the last four years has happened what I would call a right-wing move on justice policy, and I hope that we will see a left-wing slip in the next four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114348	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114351	The latter can then be taken in other contexts. If we are dealing with the bill here, then I am glad that Enhedslisten recognises that what was the whole basis of this exercise was a common ambition that we should use the sanction of community service in several cases of simple violence. Then we may disagree that at the top of it there were some cases that we see as unfair and where we therefore want to restrict that use, but the whole foundation was in fact common. I just want to say that when you hear the speech from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114425	But the basis was also, sir. Jeppe Bruus, that there should be a greater discretion with the judges. That is what we are restricting now, and that is what we are opposed to in the Enhedslisten. In this way, it can be said that in 2015 we in the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party agreed on the question of the use of community service, and I wish we were today too. And I wish that Mr. Jeppe Bruus' party at least supported the fact that the current scheme had to be evaluated before any changes were made to it. I think that would only make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114456	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114501	Thank you to the rapporteur, Mrs Lund, for her speech. There may not be so much agreement on the views between the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten. But one question is: how does the Enhedslisten intend to behave in relation to this kind of proposal, which comes from the government, but is a resubmission of the previous government's proposal, which costs money? Well, it's more expensive to have people in prison than it is to start them off with community service. I am asking because there are currently financial law negotiations, and Enhedslisten is probably a candidate to vote for the Finance Act, so I just have to understand: will Enhedslisten support this proposal? No, you don't. Will the Finance Act be supported? Yes, some concessions of different kinds may be needed. But since this costs more money, how do you plan on going there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114600	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup for the question. Now, in some way, it would be a rather poor negotiating strategy on the part of the Enhedslisten, I think, if I were standing here and spreading what we are bringing to the financial law negotiations. But I'd like to say to Mr. Peter Skaarup, that we strongly expect that we are candidates to make a financial law with the government, but that of course we are not going to finance things that we have not made agreements on ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114622	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114625	Then I do not really understand it, because according to this proposal it will cost 9.2 million. kr. in 2020, in the field of criminal justice and EUR 11 million; kr. Annually from 2021 onwards. When such a thing costs money, how can Enhedslisten say "and there's a majority for it in the Danish Parliament that you won't vote on it if you support the Finance Act?" Can Mrs Rosa Lund see that there is something there? I mean, when you support the Finance Act, you add votes to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114701	I'll be able to clear it up for you, sir. Peter Skaarup, that fortunately we haven't finished negotiating finance laws yet. But it is clear that the Enhedslisten, with its 13 mandates, cannot do anything about the fact that the government has a different majority with that side of the House, at least today, for example. for this bill. But at least that's where I'm assuming that mr. Peter Skaarup and his party will help find money when they support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114721	Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114736	Thank you. I feel a little provoked by the expression the black majority in the law, I feel a little affected. Can we have the definition of what a black majority in legal policy is? Are they the ones who side with the victims, the blacks?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114757	No, that's not what I'm putting in the black majority of law policy, but maybe that's it, sir. Naser Khader puts in it. What I am referring to is that the majority that is here today, at least, but also in previous legislative proposals we have dealt with, stands for a very tough legal policy, a so-called tough on crime justice policy. I believe that those who do not support this legal policy are also on the side of the victims. For example: Mr. Naser Khader that we in my party have spent a lot of time on legislation in support of rape victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114823	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114827	I think the rapporteur is very, very much focused on the welfare of criminals and too little on the welfare of victims. I know that they have helped to support rape victims, but in general I think that much more attention is paid to the welfare of criminals than to the welfare of victims. What does the rapporteur have to say to the victims?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114852	Thank you for the question. Then I simply do not make myself clear enough. Sir. Naser Khader, what we are concerned with in the Enhedslisten, is the welfare and well-being of the legal system and of legal certainty, and hence of the victims as well. Just with the legislative proposal we have before us today, it is the case that increased use of community services actually helps prevent the perpetrators from committing crime again, so it is precisely on the side of the victims. If you use prison sentences, there is a greater risk that the perpetrator will commit the same crime again, and I think that is precisely on the side of the victims, that is to say, that you will do all you can to prevent crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114928	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101114943	Thank you. In relation to cases of personal crime, we in the Conservative People's Party do not believe that community service is an appropriate punishment, especially for people who have been convicted of violence in the past. It is, in principle, important for us that the perpetrator should receive a tangible penalty for his actions. A victim of violence must not be able to run into the perpetrator on the street shortly after he has been attacked and the perpetrator has been convicted. It's disrespectful of the victim. And here I speak of my own personal painful experience. My daughter was attacked by a girl's gang, and it wasn't long after the attack before she met them not far from the crime scene. It hurt the sense of justice. Even though a few of them were in an institution, they still walked around freely and met their victims. We politicians abandon citizens when consideration for the criminal weighs more heavily than consideration for the victim and for the rest of society. In the Conservative People's Party, we are always on the side of the victims. In cases where the accused has previously been punished for violence or other perilous crime, a conditional sentence with terms of community service is simply not enough. This is again about the sense of justice, it's about the victims. I understand that many Danes feel that the sense of justice is being violated in cases such as these, because mine too. I repeat it, because this message is very important for our sense of justice, and it cannot be said often enough: consideration for the victim must always be given more weight than consideration for the perpetrator, and that is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115142	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115158	Thank you for the floor. The alternative is to ensure a good balance between the general sense of justice, the victims and the level of crime. In other words, it is a matter of legal reasoning, not of a sense of justice. The best justice and justice policy is the one that prevents criminal acts from arising. Prison sentences are not a way to reduce crime or better opportunities for the criminal or the injured. Or, as our Prime Minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said as Minister of Justice, the best protection against crime is prevention and rehabilitation. So, on the other hand, we must create a system of penalties based on the restoration of justice, and we must move away from the belief that punishment can be meaningfully preventing crime. Alternatives to prison sentences, such as community service and anklet service, are the most effective means of preventing new crime. In addition, we must ensure that people are not penalised further by the barriers they face when they get out of prison. The alternative does not share the view that community service, as a sanction in these cases, violates the public's sense of justice, firstly because there has been no empirical study of the public's sense of justice. However, one study by the Lawyer Society on the sense of justice of the people shows that the courts impose stricter penalties than the individual citizen would. Against this background, the government should exercise great caution in justifying a bill with a reference to the public's sense of justice. Secondly, in our view, the victim is best taken into account by reducing relapses into crime. Social service counteracts positive relapses to crime. Therefore, community service should be used as a starting point, as there is a significantly lower relapse in alternative forms of punishment. On this basis, the alternative cannot support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115407	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115415	We are dealing with a proposal that will limit the use of conditional sentences and community services in cases of violence. We support this in the New Citizens' Party. It cannot be right that victims of violence should meet their perpetrator on the street a few months after the crime. A perpetrator must feel the consequences of the pain he or she has caused the victim. Violence must not, of course, only be punished by a conditional sentence and community service; it is an insult to the victim. Unfortunately, however, violence in our society is inextricably linked to a failed immigration policy. Of the victim acts related to violence against individuals that resulted in a conviction in 2017, more than one in three were committed by a perpetrator of foreign origin or nationality. And since the change of system in 2001, it's as much as 53 percent. of non-Danish nationals who have been fined, suspended or unconditionally punished for criminal offences have subsequently been sentenced again at least once for an infringement of either criminal law, traffic law or special laws. New citizens, of course, support the bill on tougher penalties for violence, and we strongly urge the remaining parties of the Folketing to use common sense and ensure that criminal foreigners are not allowed to commit crime in our societies over and over again. The punishment for violence must be tightened up and foreigners convicted of violence must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. We owe each other and we owe it to the Danes to take care of our safe and free society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115614	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115624	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that community service can be a very good and sensible sanction in many cases, for example if the severity of the crime committed is limited or if, as they say, the perpetrator is in control of his life and has not committed crime in the past. But there are also other cases where there have been crimes and violence involving people, and there I believe there are other considerations which must also weigh heavily and perhaps also heavier than those of the perpetrator, and that is the concern for the sense of justice. It is about showing consideration for and protecting the victim of every act of violence. So you should not risk bumping into your attacker down in the ice bar shortly after you have been hit on the street. That's why the Minister of Justice, with the re-submission of this bill, has found a fine balance between the concern for the perpetrator's situation, the seriousness of the crime and the sense of justice of the victim. If you are previously unpunished, as I said, community service can be a fine sanction, but if you have committed similar crimes in the past, and the penalty has obviously not worked when you commit the offence again, then you should not get away with that cheaply, and that is what the bill takes into account. And a little cheerful remark on such a high Friday: this is actually also a speech that Christina Egelund made in the spring of this year, and we can be a little happy about that today, because it was a good speech she gave.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115756	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115806	Thank you for your comments and thank you for your support for the bill. In fact, it's such a bill, where you sign out in those outposts, either you're for punishment, severe punishment, and that's for the sake of the victim, the cohesion of society, or you're for rehabilitation, and then you're for community service, and the truth is that this proposal is really in the middle. There has been an extension of the use of community services, but one can only note that developments have been such that in some of the cases where we believe that community service should not be used here, community service has been used. That's why we're saying that this position in the middle we're shooting a little bit, so that it's better in line with what Parliament's intentions are about how to punish. And it comes back to some of the things that have been raised a few times, namely the issue of regulation: can we regulate? Yeah, we can do that. In other words, if we are asked whether we are at odds with the Constitution, the answer is: we are not at all. There is no doubt that with section 3 of the Constitution, which of course puts the judicial power in the courts, the legislative power with us, the government and the parliament in association, is on safe ground. Then you might ask: should we regulate? Yes, we must do so if we think it is necessary, if we think that in the situation we are in, there have been injustices, and that is what is happening here. And that's why we have to implement this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101115951	We thank the Minister. There are no brief comments. I'm sorry! It is there, but no one had felt it. I don't know what happened. We ask the Minister to come back up here and then we will take the brief comments. I can also see that there are more who have pushed in. The first is sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120027	It's just a follow-up question about the future of this proposal, which the Danish People's Party supports. We would like to go further in some areas, as mentioned in the House, but we support the proposal. However, there are other parties that do not, including parties that might be able to vote in favour of the Finance Act and make a financial agreement. And I would just like to ask the Minister: how does the government intend to tackle the fact that a proposal like this costs approx. 10 million kr. Every year, with full effect over the years, but that there are parties in here that were a little difficult to understand, at least in relation to what it would mean for a proposal like this, that it was passed by those parties? Can the Minister tell the Danish Parliament a little more about this? How does the government intend to deal with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120126	Fortunately, I can reassure the rapporteur there, Mr President. Peter Skaarup, with the fact that the Finance Act for last year, i.e. the one that was made last year, the one that we are in now, was already allocated 7 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on this proposal and to say that in the coming years 11 million have been allocated. kr. So with the financial law that we have, the basis on which we stand, money has been set aside. So it has been taken into account. We are also going through other legislative proposals in the field of justice, and I really think it is important that, when we have these proposals, which mean that everything else is equal to being in prison, we also remember, when we put forward the proposals, that with the pressure we can see there is in our prisons at the moment, it costs some money and that we have to drop the money so that criminal services can keep up with and carry out their work. But the money's in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120218	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120220	It is true that the foresighting government also took care of the economy, at least on this point and also forward-looking. But what remains is that if you say yes to the budget law, then you also say yes to allocating these funds by 2020 to more people going to prison instead of going to community service. I would just like to hear from the Minister whether it really is a viable situation if there are parties that believe that this is not going at all, but that are still voting for the Finance Act. If so, will they not also vote in favour of everything that the Finance Act contains, including more people going to prison and fewer in community service?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120308	I believe that we must be careful not to go where we can expect that we as a party can get through with everything we want. And that is why I believe that the parties that will be included in the Finance Act will compromise to ensure that the ends can be reached together, and I am confident that they will succeed in the negotiations currently under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120331	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120332	Thank you for the floor. Now we are in a new situation in the Folketing. New citizens are in the Folketing, and I would like to come to the help of the Minister on the issue of funding, which I can understand both DF and the left-wing parties, and that is reasonable enough. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we spend a great deal of resources on criminal foreigners who commit crime over and over again. So if, in parallel with this, the Minister would introduce a consistent expulsion of criminal foreigners after the first sentence, there is a great deal of money to be saved. We spend more than 30 billion. kr. a year on non-western immigrants and descendants in Denmark, and on criminal services we spend just over 1 billion. kr. alone on foreigners. So there is money to be collected, and I am happy to come to the rescue of the Social Democracy when the money is to be found if it is about foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120432	First of all, welcome, because I have not had the opportunity to say this to New Citizens before, and thank you for what is going to happen, I think that will be a good and sensible cooperation. I have taken note of the advice given to me by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120449	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120451	As a new member of the Danish Parliament, I have to ask what the term'marked me' means. Does this mean that you have written it behind your ear and you take it with you at the next debate? Or does that mean you've written it behind your ear, and then you're gonna wash it off tonight and forget about it tomorrow?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120509	I guess it's almost somewhere in between.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120515	Thank you for that, and the next one is sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120517	Thank you, Minister. I have the impression that the Minister is very concerned about combating crime, organised crime, and I would like to thank the Minister for that. However, I would also like to hear the Minister's reaction to the fact that the Crime Prevention Council says that if you implement the proposal L 10, it will create more perpetrators and thus more victims of violence. How does this relate to the aim of the Minister to combat crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120554	But that is at the heart of the discussion we have had, namely that there is one consideration in which one can say that if we stand over here and say that the only thing involved is rehabilitation, only consideration for the perpetrator, then one must recognise that there may be problems. But there are also some other considerations that need to be weighed in: e.g. the concern for the victim and the concern for the cohesion of society. One of the things that gives our society cohesion is that we have a state authority which intervenes when there are problems and ensures that those who do not comply with the rules we have chosen to have in our society are punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120631	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120633	The government has previously announced a surveillance package. Now we see the proposal No. L 10 on small-scale community service. How does L 10 harmonize with the approach of our Prime Minister, Mette Frederiksen, as Minister of Justice, where the Prime Minister said on several occasions clearly and clearly that the best protection against crime, the best way to combat crime, is prevention and rehabilitation? How does this relate to the approach that the government now has in the area of legal policy, most recently here with L 10?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120717	It is the same question that has just been formulated in a new way, and therefore the answer is the same: there are some considerations to use when talking about community service, which has some advantages, but there are also some other considerations that need to be weighed in, including the consideration of the victim and the cohesion of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120733	Thank you. Then no one else has signed up on the list. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120759	The debate is open. The first one on the platform will be the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120810	Thank you. After all, the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament is a very important institution in our democracy. It is the entire Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament and works in this way also as a representative of our Parliament as a whole. Each year the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament then presents a report which we have the opportunity to discuss in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, and we also usually hold a hearing in which we discuss the various elements. And then we have this discussion in the Parliamentary Chamber, and there I would like to state on behalf of all the parties of the Danish Parliament that we take note of the Ombudsman's report, and then we have a more substantive discussion of it in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in open hearings which I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120859	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I ask, for the sake of good order, if anyone else wishes to speak. There isn't. Is there a request for referral to committee? As this is not the case, the proposal goes directly to the second (last) reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101120940	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go. It's case L 37. Then we move on to the next rapporteur for the time being, and then we can see whether the Socialists will have a rapporteur on the floor afterwards. So the next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121028	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are discussing today gives the Faroe Islands greater autonomy over foreign policy. We in the Left think this is right and proper, especially because it is done at the request of the Faroe Islands. In fact, we tried earlier in the government to make the same change of law, but there was a parliamentary election that put an end to that process. So we are pleased that we can now move on down the path we ourselves have supported in the past. Implementation of the bill and the amendment of the law create the prerequisite for the Faroe Islands in future to have both the competence and the authority to take decisions on cases of aliens' stay in the Faroe Islands in particular at first instance. At the same time, the Minister is authorised to lay down detailed rules on the requirements of persons who may in future apply for permanent residence in the Faroe Islands. We support that in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121134	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We can go further in the rapporteur's line and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Carsten Kudsk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121155	When the Danish People's Party spokesperson, Mr. Søren Espersen, who cannot be present in the Chamber today, is responsible for explaining the position of the Danish People's Party on the bill. It will no longer be a contribution by me, since the proposal without amendment is identical to L 231, which we had worked on shortly before the parliamentary elections, but it just dropped. As the proposal is about foreigners' access to the kingdom, we have per. We are all aware that we are very sensitive when it comes to ensuring a very strict foreign policy. However, when it comes to the Faroese authorities, we have full confidence in the transfer, as we are convinced that the Faroese authorities generally share Dansk Folkeparti's concern in such cases. The Faroese authorities have wanted to take over the competence to settle certain cases of long-term residence of foreigners in the Faroe Islands. If the law is passed, it will mean that a possible refusal to stay in the Faroe Islands must be brought before the Foreigners' Board and not, as is the case today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. However, it will continue to be the Ministry which decides on the detailed rules for temporary residence permits in the Faroe Islands. This is subject, inter alia, to: of the fact that foreigners are associated with the Faroe Islands. The law has already been adopted in the Faroe Islands. It happened in the spring. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121322	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line and it says that it is the Radical Left, but I cannot see anyone from the Radical Left. Then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Balder Dark Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121357	Thank you. The SF can support the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121403	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121408	Thank you. I was not just prepared for the brief rapporteur's speech. I will also try to keep someone equally short. When Mr. Christian Juhl, who is Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this area, unfortunately could not be here today, I have promised to say further that we in the Enhedslisten support this bill, as, in our best opinion, it gives more codecision to the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121431	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line and it says that it is the Conservative People's Party, but it does not look as if they have arrived. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Alternative's rapporteur, and it has changed into Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121452	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. Like many other rapporteurs before me, I am not prepared to give this speech either. So I would like to inform you that the alternative supports the proposal without any further justification.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121516	Thank you for that and that did not give rise to any comments. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121530	New citizens believe that decisions in our society must be taken as close as possible to the citizens to whom the decisions relate, and therefore New Citizens support the Faroese wish that Faroese authorities can take over the competence to decide certain cases of aliens' stay in the Faroe Islands and thus take over the administrative authority of these cases. We also support the possibility of appealing against a refusal to stay in the Faroe Islands to the Foreigners' Board and, finally, we support the proposal that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration may lay down detailed rules whereby permanent residence permits in the Faroe Islands are subject to the condition that the foreigner concerned has an integrational link with the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121622	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121633	Thank you for the floor. After all, the legislative proposal is a re-submission of a legislative proposal from April of this year, and we have already stated our position there, namely that we support the legislative proposal, and we are, of course, still doing so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121653	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments. I don't see anyone from the Samband Party, and then we move on to JF, and that's Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101121704	Thank you. I would say a little more than the other rapporteurs, perhaps for good reasons. It's actually a pretty important matter. At the beginning of my time here in the Danish Parliament, many approached me directly and aired their frustration at the treatment of residence permits in the Faroe Islands. You have an office in the Faroe Islands that is advisory, and they had been in that office and been told something, and then the case was dealt with elsewhere, and they didn't know where it was, and then they asked me what was going on and who has their case and how it is being dealt with. They didn't know that. No one could answer their questions. So sometimes I did it, that I went into things myself. When they were very frustrated, I took the case myself and contacted the relevant authorities in Denmark and asked: How's that case with the number and the specific name? I should not have thought it necessary to do so, nor should I have done so. It is wrong for a politician to interfere in a procedure. This may have an effect, and it may result in the same thing as the politician's question going through the system more easily than other cases. Corruption is, of course, a very strong word and, in this context, of course, it also gives wrong associations, I would say, but political interference in the handling of personal matters by the office tends to have a tiny amount of corruption in it. That's why I stopped doing it a few years ago. I didn't go into these cases at all unless it was quite clear that something was wrong, and if mistakes had been made, I went into them, and otherwise I stayed far away. But although I did something wrong by going into matters, I understood that people came to me because they were very frustrated and they did not know where their case was and who was responsible for it. Therefore, I am very pleased that with this amendment of the law it will be possible to move both the treatment and the decision of these cases to the Faroe Islands, not all decisions, but I would say that most of them apply. This is not a full formal transfer of responsibility, because, as has been said, the prosecution will remain in Denmark. It is therefore the administration that is moved to the Faroe Islands, while the final formal responsibility when complaints are made remains overall for the whole realm. Practice will then be developed gradually, because ministers have the power to lay down rules on how things should be done forward. I understand that we are going to feel a little bit ahead, because, as has been said, residence permits are a very difficult political waters, and if we then even have two systems and two countries within the European Union, the other outside the European Union, then two sets of rules, it is probably very sensible to tread cautiously and gradually develop practices and competences. But it is also important that this is done and that we move in that direction. The fact that Danish case managers have to deal with these cases on the basis of rules other than the Danish rules and, in many cases, following a recommendation from the Faroese side, creates unnecessary uncertainty and unnecessary long processing, and this gives citizens a sense of lack of legal certainty. This is what tempted me to go into these matters in the first place and thus perhaps put pressure on the office and do something that at least tangles corrupt behavior. It will also be good to have that temptation removed, so I am very pleased that this is going to be adopted, and I thank you for the support of the Danish Parliament in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122059	Thank you. That did not give rise to brief comments, so thank the rapporteur. Then we give the opportunity for the Social Democrat rapporteur, Lars Aslan Rasmussen, to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122125	On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I should like to say that, after lengthy discussions, we agree with the government, and I must also say that this is the case for Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left, and that they also subscribe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122132	Thank you. That did not give rise to any comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and then we give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122142	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their speeches. I am pleased to note that there seems to be a broad majority behind the draft law, which is, after all, a re-submission of a bill from April, but which therefore lapsed as a result of the parliamentary elections. For several years the Faroese and Danish authorities have been working on a Faroese acquisition of the foreign territory and border controls within the framework of the takeover law. However, there are a number of fundamental issues, particularly in relation to Denmark's Schengen obligations, which need to be clarified before any takeover of the matter can be implemented. We have been continuously in dialogue with the Commission to find a solution to the Schengen challenges, but this is a time-consuming process, as the matter is difficult and complex. The Faroese side has therefore expressed the wish that the competence to take decisions in certain cases concerning aliens' stay in the Faroe Islands be delegated to the Faroese authorities. The draft law has also been adopted at the third reading in the Latting on 1 May this year. The Government would like to support the Faroese wish, which is why we are now resubmitting this bill. In this connection, I can also say that it is in agreement with the new local government in the Faroe Islands, which was formed after the elections on 31 August, that we are moving forward with the bill. Firstly, the proposal proposes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, after negotiation with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands, may delegate the power to take decisions at first instance in certain cases concerning the stay of foreigners in the Faroe Islands • from the Foreign Affairs Agency and the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration and then to a Faroese authority. The delegation home will include: include cases of family reunification and residence and work permits in the field of employment. The draft law does not alter the substantive rules on entry and residence in the Faroe Islands. This also means that the Faroese authorities will have to deal with matters as the Danish authorities have done so far. Secondly, it is proposed to amend the rules on the right of appeal in relation to a delegation of decision-making powers. Today, decisions on residence in the Faroe Islands, taken at first instance by the Danish authorities, can be appealed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. With the bill, any complaint about the decision of the Faroese authorities at first instance will have to be brought before the Foreigners' Board. This will ensure that review of decisions of the Faroese authorities at first instance in cases of residence is carried out by an independent and judicial and expert body. This also corresponds to the scheme which, moreover, applies under the Danish law on foreigners. Thirdly, we propose that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration may, after negotiation with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands, lay down detailed rules on integration-relevant conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits in the Faroe Islands. The proposal should be seen in the light of the Faroese wish that the integration of newly arrived foreigners in the Faroe Islands should be supported in the legislation on foreigners applicable to the Faroe Islands. This ensures that access to permanent residence in the Faroe Islands can be conditional upon the existence of a strong link between foreigners and the Faroese community. It can, for example, be done. be in the form of requirements for Faroese language skills. All in all, therefore, the draft law must pave the way for the power of decision to be delegated to the Faroese authorities in certain specific cases in the field of aliens in the foreseeable future. I would, of course, like to thank you for the debate here today, and I look forward to the further consideration of the bill in the Folketing and, as usual, will be available for questions if there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122517	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122540	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122604	I have to say that the Social Democrats support the proposal and look forward to welcoming these citizens as part of Danish society. And I must say that this also applies to the Radical Left, which could not be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122619	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122639	Thank you. To a people they all hear, as it were, to the mother tongue ear, and to the fatherland fire. That is how the first chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Birth wrote. It was Grundtvig in 1848 in the eventually known poems. And who better to find guidance with when Danish citizenship is to be granted than with Grundtvig. For he says it, exactly as it is: If you are to belong to a people, first of all you must feel like a part of the community; you must count and regard yourself as Danish. Grundtvig also mentions that one must of course be able to master the Danish language, and it is for us in the Left self-evident that Grundtvig was right. It must, of course, be a prerequisite for obtaining Danish citizenship that one can speak Danish. Then Grundtvig mentions that you must have a fire for the fatherland. This means that you have to look at Denmark and about the Danes, that you have to fight and work for the best for Denmark, and also that you have to prove that you care about our society and know something about it. Here, too, the Left is in complete agreement with Grundtvig. But although the first part of Grundtvig's poem is by far the most famous, his thoughts on citizenship and the country of origin do not actually stop here. For in the poem he goes on to say: "The rest even as dragon puppets/Say from the people rule out,/Light himself out of the seed,/deny himself the right of birth! And that's at least as important a part as the first one. For it means that people who just see Denmark as a place to exploit, where you can grope, where you don't have to contribute, or where you don't have to accept the usual Danish values, cannot become Danish citizens. And here Grundtvig again has an important point to make. Because with citizenship there are some very special rights which are few people in the world enjoy, it is simply something very special to be a citizen of Denmark. So from the point of view of the Left, it is completely in Grundtvig's spirit that we make tough demands on Danish citizenship: demand for language, demand for knowledge of Danish society, the Danish values, demands for self-reliance and also for future claims to participate in a constitutional ceremony. For us, it is important that Danish citizenship goes hand in hand with an eagerness and a desire to live by Danish standards and values. Denmark is for those who can and will. With these words, I would like to round off. I would like to congratulate the thousands of people who can look forward to becoming Danish citizens. You get a great gift from Danish society, and the gift commits, but we believe in you. We believe that you want Denmark. We believe that you can live up to our trust, so much congratulations to you. Happy birthday to us. And thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122946	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101122950	I am very pleased that the Left has again started reading and quoting Grundtvig. It's like it's been out in the last 50 years. Perhaps we should read a little further in the public service. I believe that one of the last verses reads: "Preacher and Adel, Citizen, Bonde,/Konstner, Skipper, Schoolman/Call all Udansk den Evil,/Become Danes Fædreland." There I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether all these people who have now, with the approval of the Left, become Danish citizens, priests, nobility, citizen, peasant, schoolteacher, skipper, etc. Dahlin, the undersigned and the intention contained in the excellent verse, as Mr. Dahlin mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123044	I'm not supposed to be able to explain to you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, how those who have previously acquired citizenship feel, but I can at least say that the rules that have previously been for the granting of citizenship have been too relaxed. That is why we in the Left have been involved in tightening up the requirements to become a Danish citizen in 2018 because we feel that it is a gift to be given by the Danish people. But it is therefore a gift to be earned, and that is why we are completely at the goal of the tightening of the rules we have made over a number of years, no later than 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123121	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123123	And that is an agreement that is certainly better than what was before. But now that Mr. Dahlin took the trouble to talk about dragon puppets, that is, those who do not say anything about whether he can see that among the people who have previously been born there should be such dragon puppets, and if he can, should we not do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123156	Thank you for the question to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Well, it is quite clear that some have previously been granted Danish citizenship, which does not live up to what we expect of people who are citizens of Denmark. That is why the Left also voted for the bill not very many days ago, which should make it easier to deprive some of those who have dual citizenship of their Danish citizenship if they do not live up to any of what we expect of each other, including not to go to war and fight for the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123226	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123233	Thank you, President. As the previous rapporteur mentioned, it is not many days since we discussed citizenship. Admittedly, the opposite approach was somewhat different, namely the withdrawal of citizenship, simply because there are some people who, by a majority here in the Folketing, have been granted citizenship, who should never have had that which did not live up to Grundtvig's spirit, who felt a greater urge to become part of the Islamic State than to be loyal to the new homeland, which had actually accepted them. This is, of course, a very good point of reference to the laxity shown by the Danish Parliament for many decades, when it has had to deal with these laws of citizenship, which have brought the country of origin on a disastrous path. This summer we could read new statements from the American analysis agency Pew Research, which announces that in 2050 the Danish population is expected to consist of 16 per cent. Muslims. It goes without saying that such a society is not the same as what we have today, and that is not at all what most people still remember, however, where one could walk in peace on the street, where there was cohesion, where we should not discuss whether minarets should be built and take into account for an infinity a foreign group of people who have come into the country and suddenly insist that society should adjust to their premises, should not have to pay just over 35 billion. kr. a year to these people, should not accept that they dominate completely in prisons etc. etc. Nevertheless, it is the reality today, and it is the reality that Denmark is heading directly against, if not a majority in this Parliament is manning up, and it is both about tightening the immigration laws, and there we may still have reached a point where we are beginning to see a light at the end, but also about talking about how we get some effective immigration laws. We still lack that so that all those who do not have a fire for the homeland do not receive the mother tongue, do not feel like part of the family that the Danes have accepted them and welcomed them to one of the best societies in the world, nor do they have a future here. That is why, of course, citizenship should not be granted as frivolously as the agreement reached in 2018 lays down. Firstly, of course, we should only be granted citizenship subject to condition, so that all the pre-allocation requirements also apply subsequently, and if we cannot comply with the rule of good repute, we cannot comply with all the conditions we impose, then we can be deprived of it again. We saw a few days ago when we were discussing the law on Syrians. The special law is called it, but it does not have to be a special law, and of course we see the big problem in the fact that the government is not willing to take the logical consequence and deprive all those who turn their backs on Denmark of citizenship, but only those who happen to have received dual citizenship. That's not good enough. We in the Danish People's Party want a division of the law of citizenship, so that you clearly have the Western immigrants or those from the Western cultural community who want to become Danish, and those from the non-Western, so that you can relate to the obvious difference that is in relation to taking a Coptic Christian from Egypt or a Muslim Somali into our Danish community. It is quite obvious that the differences are so great that we should not just deal with the two things in the same law. Unfortunately, the Islamisation of Denmark is an obvious fact, and it requires that we in the Folketing fight hard against it if we want to maintain the homeland that I believe we all love, but which is clearly not all able to identify the enemies of, and therefore the Danish People's Party does not vote for this bill of citizenship. It may be a shame, because there are certainly a lot of people on the bill who actually love Denmark, who actually love Denmark, and who just feel it to become Danish as being included in the family that you just always dreamed of becoming a part of. I myself took part in the right citizenship day here at Christiansborg a few months ago and was able to meet and also welcome a great many from America, from Canada, from India, from China, from Taiwan, etc., who have really taken Danish to heart, and it is of course a pity that all those who may also be on this bill of citizenship, who are of the same mind, will be greeted by a "no" from the Danish People's Party. However, the situation is too serious, the country is standing wet and, unfortunately, Grundtvig is neither in the political sense nor in the literature very high on the agenda any longer. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123734	Thank you. There is a brief comment. It's from sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123739	Thank you for the struggle of the Danish People's Party to prevent too many people becoming citizens of Denmark who should not be. I have a few comments to make, and then I have a question at the end. First of all, maybe I'm a little puzzled by the fact that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt makes it sound like it would be unproblematic to receive a lot of Coptic Christians from Egypt. I think that we may be focusing too much on religion when one completely forgets that there are also some cultural differences that can make it difficult to work in Denmark. Secondly, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has, after all, helped to create the citizenship agreement that we made just over a year ago, and the law we are voting through now is a direct consequence of that agreement. For the demands to be made on this bill, the Danish People's Party itself has been involved in adopting it. That is why I find it rather difficult to actually understand that we are then voting against the agreement here. I am in favour of having it even tighter, and I would actually like to have it, but I still think that when you are part of an agreement where you have adopted these demands, you should also accept that there will be a legislative proposal on which these people stand. So maybe I'd like to hear that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt's comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101123855	In relation to cultural differences, of course, I share the rapporteur's concerns and what is culture, and what is religion? I sometimes have the impression that those who want the Danish society to adapt to their conditions shop a little between them. On one occasion, the scarf is a matter of religion for religious minority protection. On other occasions, where one would rather not have it become a stumbling block to criticize Islam, it is cultural and so on. But my point was to look at the background that people come with, because there are obvious differences as to whether you come from the western cultural community or from the non-western cultural community. So in relation to the agreement on citizenship: Well it was a very well-known prerequisite for the other parties to the agreement that the Danish People's Party clearly said that we would like to be involved in tightening the conditions, and we laid it out quite clearly from the beginning what our intention was. However, if we could not achieve all our wishes, we could not guarantee that we voted in favour. So there's nothing unknown or new in this. However, in relation to the previous agreement on citizenship, which was in force under Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government, and with significant radical fingerprints, of course, and then on what we have now, there have been very great improvements. Well, in the citizenship laws we had at the time, there were 70%. from Muslim countries. Now we're down to 20%. We'd like to go further down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124007	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124017	Well, I largely agree with the last comment, so we would also like to tighten up even more. We may look a little differently at the matter of making a deal. We take the consequence that we have been involved in concluding this agreement, and then we vote in favour because we see this as a coinage of an agreement that we have been behind, even though we would have liked to have had it tighter. Well, I'd like to ask sir. Morten Messerschmidt about something. The Conservative People's Party proposes that we introduce screening interviews for citizenship applicants, because it is not just a question of meeting formal demands on how many years you have been in Denmark, on being self-supporting, etc. It is also a question of whether, for example, we should do something about it. is Islamist and wants to abolish democracy. Could the Danish People's Party support screening conversations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124050-2	First of all, in relation to the agreement on citizenship: I fully recognise what the Conservative rapporteur says. I just want to mention that it is not quite uncommon. Well, there is, for example. The energy conciliation, which is also a very broad agreement, and it is also common that when there are partial votes, there are some parties who choose to abstain or perhaps directly vote against. So it's not a methodology that's completely unknown. It may just not have been achieved by the Conservatives and all honour and respect for it. So, in relation to screening conversations, that sounds really reasonable. This is a little like when a young man or a young woman wants to be admitted to a family because he has fallen in love with a child of the family, then of course you come home and meet the future in-laws and stand there with a little wet palms and think that God, how are things going now? It is quite the same picture that one should have in the area of citizenship, that is to say that it is about becoming a member of a family. So, yes, it would be a good idea to have some conversations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124142	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Balder Dark Andersen. No, I'm just being corrected. Okay, then we go back to the ordinary rapporteur's line. Sir. Andreas Steenberg from the Radical Left would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124207	I think the agreements were a little messed up. I think it was on the previous point that the Social Democrat rapporteur should welcome the radical rapporteur. Indeed, we would like to have the floor in connection with this bill and congratulate the well and well 3,600 people on becoming Danish citizens. Congratulations on the fact that you can now all become an accomplished part of Denmark and also participate in democracy. Thank you, too, for all of you having chosen to be so well integrated that you can meet the requirements of becoming Danish citizens: to be in employment, stay away from crime, pass a citizenship test and learn Danish. This shows that you have become Danish, and now you have also chosen to take the final step and become Danish citizens and become an accomplished part of Denmark. Thank you for that, and congratulations. I would also like to take this opportunity to mention a few points which we would like to change in relation to this matter of acquiring citizenship. The first is that we think it is wrong that a speeding ticket or another fine of more than DKK 3 000. As a result, you cannot automatically become a national. Then you can apply for an exemption, and then it comes up here in the Danish Parliament on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, where we can see that since the election more people have refused their application to become a national because of, for example, speeding tickets. We support the postponement of the possibility of becoming a national if you have committed crimes that give prison sentences, but the fact that you cannot become a citizen because you have, for example, received a speeding ticket, we do not think it is fair and we should get rid of that. Then we also think it is wrong that especially young people who have been born and raised in Denmark have lived here all their lives, have taken primary school, have passed primary school and maybe have also taken an upper secondary education, cannot automatically become Danish citizens when they are 18 years old, but must spend 3 years first seeking permanent residence and then apply for citizenship and must also try to know enough about Denmark, even if you have attended primary school in Denmark all the time. We have to believe that the primary school teaches people enough about Denmark otherwise it is quite wrong. We therefore think that these people could be given citizenship if they were born and raised here and, by the way, have stayed away from serious crime. With those words, we can support the bill and once again congratulate these many people on having citizenship and having the right to vote. Thank you for choosing to become part of Denmark and meet all these requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124459	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Balder Dark Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124508	Thank you for the floor. Dear Yasser, Julia, Tomasz, Aishah and 3.562 other new Danes. Congratulations. Congratulations on having chosen to join the community on which being Danish is now you get paper on it. It's a big day for you and for Denmark. How nice it is that you have chosen to confess yourself and your love for the stain on the world map that we call Denmark. It is a small spot, but what a spot we place in a place where we put our institutions, democracy, associations, rights and the very core of our community very much. Denmark is a country where we take care of each other, a place where the community stands ready to help those who cannot always help themselves. I hope that you will actively participate in the continuation of the development of the community and will actively contribute to Denmark becoming an even more beautiful country to live in. It is told that Dannebrog fell from the sky. On the other hand, your citizenship does not make it the result of your own diligence and effort, which has led to a majority in the Folketing having granted you citizenship by law, as required by Paragraph 44 of the Constitution. On behalf of the SF, I would like to wish you every success in the future and to announce that we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124627	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101124645	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by congratulating the over 3,500 applicants who have now, typically after years of trial, finally come as far as being included in a bill on the birth certificate. They have already come a long way in the process. But it is certainly not over and much can go wrong if, before the third reading next month, they are so unfortunate to lose their jobs or get a road ticket, what may mean that their name will be deleted from the bill. Or, as happened in the spring, elections could be held so that the entire bill lapses. And even when the bill is finally adopted, a large group of applicants will have to wait a few months for their home municipalities to organise a handshake ceremony and to comply with the absurd handshake requirement of the then rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Astrid Krag, a year ago, but which the new Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration has now expressly chosen to maintain. The road to a Danish citizenship by naturalisation is long and stony. And in recent years the political majority has set up more and more stumbling threads in an opaque bureaucracy in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Child are examining with great zeal applications to find out whether the applicant should have been fined or, for a shorter period, forced to obtain rehabilitation benefit or unemployment benefit in a stubborn struggle to maintain or regain a foothold in the labour market. In countries with which we normally compare ourselves to, the acquisition of citizenship is an administrative act in which the applicant can apply on the basis of clearly formulated, transparent criteria, where refusal must be justified and where there is a right of appeal and therefore procedures worthy of the rule of law. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Denmark, and we know from the media coverage that the majority of the Committee on the Rights of Citizens reject the vast majority of the derogations submitted to the committee. Politiken was last able to say on 16 October that the majority of the committee refused to grant exemptions in all road traffic cases that have been submitted since the parliamentary elections. The figures indicate that the majority of the committee has put an even harder line than at the time Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. In fact, in the second half of 2018 and in the first half of 2019, most road traffic cases were exempted in the committee, but now the course has been tightened up considerably, an interesting situation after the Social Democratic Party, together with its parliamentary basis, has obtained a majority in the committee. We already know from press coverage and from the Ministry's reply that virtually all cases of exemption are refused on grounds of long-term disability, i.e. cases of seriously ill people or people with disabilities who, according to detailed medical statements, have no chance of passing a citizenship test or the required Danish test. We have the words of the former Minister, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, that it is contrary to the UN Convention on Disability to refuse this group of people if the medical declarations submitted are taken into account. I see nothing more than that the Committee on the Rights of the Child behind closed doors every year hundreds of times violates the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The composition of the participants at the annual citizenship day here at Christiansborg has changed. More and more people with a European background flock here on this feast day, while the proportion of people with an African or Middle Eastern background is falling. We have no preference in the Enhedslisten as to which groups of countries we would like to have new citizens from. Both Europeans and non-Europeans, who live in Denmark and who want to be Danes, of course we welcome. However, we note that the increasing demands for permanent residence permits and citizenship mean that the number of refugees we have undertaken to protect and who have not gone anywhere else to have permanent residence and citizenship has fallen. We are heading towards a society in which a growing group of people must live here with the rest of us without full civil rights. This is a worrying development which Enhedslisten would like to help reverse by making it easier to have permanent residence and citizenship. However, as I started by saying: congratulations to those who have now come as far as being included in the bill, for which the Enhedslisten naturally votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125111	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125132	Thank you for the floor. We will vote in favour of the L 41, which makes a number of citizens Danish citizens, and we do so with mixed feelings. We are happy to do so both for the citizens who have earned it, and also with a little anxiety about whether we have a tough enough control over who will become citizens of Denmark. We made a birthright agreement a year and a half ago, when it was tightened up sharply. We were pleased about this, because it has been too easy to obtain Danish citizenship in the past, and that is why we were pleased that the bourgeois government and the Danish People's Party made an agreement where the demands were strongly tightened, which also means that there are now fewer people getting citizenship compared to the previous one. Once we have reached that agreement, we also feel that we must vote in favour of the implementation of the agreement, which is the legislative proposal that we have now. Because in the agreement on citizenship we decided on the criteria to be applied in order to be included in the legislative proposal that we are now considering. When we have been involved in determining the criteria, we must also stand by the fact that the criteria mean that the people who are now on L 41 must also have Danish citizenship. We would like the criteria to be tightened even more. For example, I think it is too much that people who can run around with a prison sentence back in the past of up to 1 year can still become Danish citizens. I think that is far too high. I also think we should introduce screening interviews for citizens' applicants, and we will come up with a proposal on this very soon, which I hope will be supported by the Danish Parliament. It has been a conservative wish for many years that we not only have formalistic demands on how many years you should have stayed in Denmark and that you should be self-supporting and not have too much on your criminal record, but that we actually also have a conversation with people to assess, for example, whether they are Islamists, whether they are supporters of an organisation such as the Islamic State, which is Denmark's declared enemy, or whether they otherwise want to abolish our democracy. It is not to control people's political beliefs, but to get rid of the worst of Denmark's enemies. When we have seen examples in the past that there have been people who have met formal requirements and then end up going down to fight for the Islamic State in Syria, then we have a problem. This shows that the formal requirements are not enough, but that we also have to assess the individuals before they acquire Danish citizenship. I know that it will run counter to the wishes of some people that we have a legal process in which only the formal requirements are crucial, because one will be concerned about whether there is any subjectivity in the decisions on who gets Danish citizenship. For us, obtaining citizenship in Denmark is not a right, but it is something that you can give to people if you want to. It is also quite clear in the Constitution that citizenship is given by law. It is therefore the Danish Parliament's opinion whether people should have Danish citizenship. That is why, as I have said, we are coming up with this proposal very soon. For the time being, we will be voting in favour of L 41 because we are part of the citizenship agreement which has decided who will be included in that bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125502	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125507	Thank you. As the rapporteur has just said, the rapporteur's party in this session is tabling a motion for a resolution to the effect that all applicants of Danish citizenship must have a personal interview before deciding whether to grant the right of citizenship, and this is, of course, an interesting proposal as a starting point. I assume that the Conservatives are making that proposal because there is doubt as to whether the current procedure ensures that only the people we want to grant citizenship will get it, and I could hear from the rapporteur that he is actually expressing this concern. That is why I also have to ask the rapporteur a question. Because I think it seems very strange that you choose to vote for a bill when you have such a great deal of doubt as to whether many of these people who are on this bill will contribute to Denmark or whether they will actually put Denmark at risk in one way or another. When we know that a great many of those who have been granted citizenship and even more of their children are included in the crime statistics, how can the rapporteur defend the fact that the doubts do not benefit the Danes and our children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125634	The names on the bill that we are debating now, L 41, which will make them Danish citizens if it is adopted, are, of course, on the bill because they meet the criteria agreed by the former bourgeois government and the Danish People's Party in the citizenship agreement just over a year ago in June 2018. There we have it that when we have been involved in determining the criteria in which we were able to tighten up strongly what it takes to become a Danish citizen, we must also stand by it and vote in favour of it, when the implementation of the agreement is now before us, with the people who are now included in a legislative proposal, because they meet the criteria that we have helped to agree on in the agreement on citizenship. We would still like to see stricter requirements removed, and we would have done so when we negotiated the agreement on citizenship, and we would also have liked to have had the screening conversation that we are now proposing again and hope for the support of the Folketing. But we stand by the agreements we have made, because that is how we get influence, and in this specific case, the influence has meant that there are fewer people who become Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125743	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125745	Yes, I can hear the rapporteur say that. That is why I still think it seems incredibly strange when you have the doubts that you do not let it benefit the Danes and our children. It is a little strange that you think that an agreement has now been reached and that, although you are still worried, you still choose to vote in favour of it. I'm very surprised. It is as if all the fine words are not really followed by action by the Conservative People's Party. However, I would also like to ask the rapporteur to explain the ideas behind this proposal for a mandatory conversation when it comes to the number of citizenship granted. It follows quite logically from the proposal that a mandatory discussion with the committee will set an upper limit on how many people can obtain citizenship per year, i.e. some kind of quota. So how high does the rapporteur think this quota can be if the committee is to be able to carry out these talks in a reassuring manner?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125839	We have not proposed a quota in the motion for a resolution that we shall be voting on. But it is clear that we want fewer people to have Danish citizenship. I would just like to say that I understand the criticism from New Citizens that we are now voting in favour of citizenship for some people, although we think that the requirements should be stricter. But the alternative was, of course, that we had not concluded the agreement on citizenship a year and a half ago, and then there had been much more who had become Danish citizens. In our view, it is not possible to reach an agreement first and then not stand by it afterwards, even if we wanted the agreement to be tighter. Then one should have been outside the agreement, but if we had been outside, the result would have been that there had been more Danish citizens and it would have been bad for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125924	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101125926	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. So it can be said that in these debates the imagination is great when it comes to making new demands. We already have a number of demands, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and there are also some that are more imaginative than others, for example. that you have to be able to see whether people are Danish in the heart and such things • however you do it. But now the rapporteur refers to the idea of introducing such a form of screening or mental control, and I would just like to hear from the rapporteur that we will be discussing it when a resolution comes later, but now my curiosity has been aroused a little bit when in the process we are going to have to carry out that screening process. So, is it when the citizen has been admitted to the bill, and if so, is it everyone, that is to say, the 3,600, who is on the bill here that you have to go through, or is there such a pre-screening, where you can see from the name who is most interesting to pull into a conversation? And that leads to the last question, which is about what the rapporteur is now saying, that it may well cause some problems in relation to this with objectivity, and I can only agree with the rapporteur on that. I would therefore like to know what considerations lie behind the fact that, on the one hand, a screening interview or some kind of mental control is to be held and, on the other hand, that it is not a purely subjective decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130053	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130055	I am generally shocked by Enhedslisten's relationship with giving Danish citizenship. My experience with Enhedslisten is that Enhedslisten simply cannot get enough of it; everyone must have Danish citizenship. I have not yet come across a case in which Enhedslisten did not believe that a person should have Danish citizenship. We take it more seriously with us. In fact, we believe that it is a rather great privilege to have Danish citizenship and that it is not a right that foreigners have. This is something you can get if the Danish population, through their elected representatives, thinks that it is beneficial for Denmark not for the applicant, but for Denmark that they get the Danish citizenship. So we have a completely different approach to this than Enhedslisten has. Yes, we would like everyone to come in for a screening interview before they were admitted to the bill. It would, of course, be a great deal of work, but it is also very far-reaching to give people Danish citizenship, so we think it would be very natural to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130200	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130201	Well then, I can inform the rapporteur that we do not have the approach of saying that everyone should be able to acquire citizenship. We are basically of the opinion that if you are permanently and legally resident in this country and have a desire to acquire citizenship, you must also have the option, provided that certain criteria are met. You can, for example. I would like to make it quite clear to the House that this is not a matter for the Commission. It is also possible to introduce a number of rules in relation to crime. The problem is that when we sit on the Committee on the Rights of the Child today, we can see that these citizens have gone through lengthy processes with a series of absurd demands that they have had to meet, so that is why we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130239	Yeah, but I'm also thinking that sir. Peder Hvelplund can confirm that people who do not speak Danish also think Enhedslisten should have a Danish citizenship, and there can be different reasons for that. People who have all kinds of mental disorders think Enhedslisten should also have Danish citizenship; even if they do not speak Danish, and even if they do not know a piece about the society they are in, Enhedslisten would like to equip them with Danish voting rights. There we just do not agree with that approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130307	Thank you. And we thank the rapporteur of the Conservatives and go further in the line of rapporteurs to Mr Conservatives. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130324	I'm always so excited about how my name is pronounced from here. During the same meeting it is pronounced in so many different ways. From the point of view of the alternative, I would like to say great, great congratulations to all our fellow citizens. It's a good day, it's a celebration day, and from the Alternative's side, we all wish you so much welcome into our community. For now you, all the applicants, all those who are granted citizenship today, have the opportunity to participate fully on an equal footing in society as well as all of us. Now you can vote, you can help shape the direction of Denmark, you can run for the Folketing, and you can stand here on the platform and present resolutions and legislative proposals. So much for congratulations from here. We know that it has been a very, very difficult road, a very unfair road, to get there, and that is why we are of the opinion in the alternative that the unreasonable demands that exist today in relation to the acquisition of citizenship should be abolished. We believe that if you are born in Denmark, you are Danish and therefore you must automatically have Danish citizenship if your parents are permanently resident in Denmark. Similarly, we believe that today's requirements for permanent residence are so many and are so unfair that, once you have obtained permanent residence in Denmark, you must be able to obtain citizenship by simple signature. It should not be the political atmosphere in the Folketing that decides whether to have citizenship or not. So much for congratulations from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130525	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130528	I would like to understand how the alternative is to give citizenship to foreigners. Is it something you give to foreigners because you think it is a pity for them, or is it something you give to them because it is for the benefit of Denmark that they get citizenship? And the reason I ask that is that I seem to have noticed that the alternative is that people who cannot speak Danish cannot pass a citizenship test because they may have some psychic diagnoses or something must have Danish citizenship. And if you think so, it is because you give citizenship because you think it is a sin for the person, rather than because that person is fit to have a Danish citizenship. Because you are not fit to have the right to vote if you do not know anything about the society in which you are living, and you, for example, have no idea about it. cannot read or understand Danish and therefore cannot have any idea of what is going on in Denmark. So is it because it is a pity for people, or should we only give citizenship to people who benefit Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130636	Today we have the principle of earning our citizenship. We think we should turn it upside down and say that from society it is a declaration of confidence that you want to. We believe in people, we believe that people who come here, people who have permanent residence, want society, and that is why we believe that the principle of granting citizenship should be reversed so that it becomes a declaration of confidence. And then we do it to create equality. We're doing it for Denmark. The best way to combat parallel societies is to ensure that people enter our community. So we would like to allocate citizenship to the first of these young people who have been born and raised here because we believe that you are Danish when you are born here, and then we would like to allocate citizenship to those who want to join the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130739	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130740	Is it enough to want Denmark? Should you not also be qualified to be able to function in Denmark before you have to have co-ownership over our country and among other things. have the right to vote in the Folketing? Let us be specific: should a person who has a mental illness and is thus unable to learn Danish and who is unable to pass a citizenship test and is unable to understand what is going on in Denmark, i.e. a person who cannot provide information about what discussions we have in Denmark, have the right to vote according to the alternative, if he wants Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130817	That is why we are also proposing quite specifically that, if you meet the conditions for permanent residence, you have shown, both during that period, that you want to be able to do so and that you have also done something to obtain citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130836	There is one more brief comment, and it is for Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130840	Thank you. I'm gonna ask sir. Sikandar Siddique a question I actually think I'm telling you right, I saved myself. It is not a polemical question, but I would just like to ask: does the alternative mean that if more people in the ghettos or in parallel communities get Danish citizenship, they simply do away with it? Is that how I was supposed to understand it? Is it just a question of people living in Vollsmose just getting Danish citizenship and then getting rid of the problems that exist in some areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130904	In the alternative, we are of the opinion that citizenship offers the opportunity to participate in society; citizenship allows the direction of society to be determined; citizenship allows one to stand for election, one can be a member of a party, one can of course also be a member without, but with citizenship one can actively participate in society. That is why we believe that every step into society is a battle with parallel societies. That is why we believe that this is a step towards a fight with parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130941	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130943	Does the rapporteur agree that over time there have been people who have acquired Danish citizenship, who are not particularly integrated, or what can one say who are living their own lives, even though they have Danish citizenship, and that it is not only that that has solved it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101130955	No. That is certainly not what alone does it. But by far the vast majority of society will, by far the majority, be an active part of society. This shows the new citizenship survey, which has just been published, and we believe that this is what we need to focus on, and not the small, small part that stands alongside and does not want society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131020	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131029	Thank you. I am running down my back when I hear the alternative put forward what is almost nationalist policy. In 1983 a large majority in the Folketing adopted the harmful alien law, which opened the doors of Denmark and allowed the alien masses to flow in. In 1988 there were 95,025 non-western immigrants and descendants in Denmark. Last year there was 493.468. So it is a five-fold increase in 30 years. This is completely insane! In 2008, Denmark's Statistics produced a projection showing that we in Denmark could expect 340.518 non-western immigrants in the year 2050. But we have already surpassed that figure by the year 2019. It's shocking! The harmful alien law was adopted by the Social Democracy, the Conservative People's Party, the Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Centrum-Democrats, the Radical Left, the Left Socialists and the Christian People's Party. Three of the parties have since gone out of parliament, but five of the parties still sit here: the Social Democracy, the Conservative People's Party, the Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left. I have to ask: Are you happy with your decision? Are you proud of the way you've changed Denmark? I'd be ashamed of myself. It is your responsibility that our children and grandchildren risk losing the free and secure Denmark that we have inherited. And that will happen if we do not grasp the root of the nettle and solve foreign policy from scratch. Look around: Mosques are shooting up in several cities; the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions, schools and public workplaces; halal meat and gender-separated swimming are easily accepted; immigrant gangs are shooting on open street; terrorist protection has become today's architecture; the number of reported rapes has exploded; police, rescue and home helpers meet with violence and vandalism in foreign-heavy residential areas; crimes committed by people with Middle Eastern, foreign or Arabic looks are daily reading material in the local media; 10 out of 12 rapes are committed by immigrants or descendants; every other rapist is an immigrant or descendant; descendants of non-western immigrants commit almost two and a half times as much crime as the rest of the population of Denmark. You politicians don't seem to care. Fourth Vice-President I just have to interrupt. We do not have a direct indictment in the Chamber, and I would just like to remind the rapporteur of that. ) Thank you. Politicians don't care, you continue to be in your safe space with a soupterrin on your head, as you've seen Jonathan Spang and Lars Mikkelsen do in the Swedish way in close to the truth on DR. Today we are going to deal with the cases of thousands of new foreigners................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In New Citizens we use common sense and we vote no. All members of parliament should do so, because we are elected to protect the Danes, not to let them down. Since the harmful alien law of 1983, 241.555 Danish citizenships have been awarded to foreigners, and in addition, citizenships come to the children of foreigners who are not included in the statistics of Denmark. It is a large part of the bad and unwanted foreigners who have acquired Danish citizenship, and it is foreigners from Turkey, Iraq, Somalia, Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Morocco, Lebanon, Syria. In New Citizens, we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, where, by immigrants and their descendants, we commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here, and that is why, of course, we are voting against this bill. I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party is not voting for this bill either, but it is certainly not a matter of course. Since 2001, when the Danish People's Party has had huge influence for 14 of the 18 years, there have been 34 votes to give thousands of foreigners Danish citizenship, and out of the 34 the DF has voted for 14, most recently in the 2016-17 parliament, and this is an expression of a huge failure of the Danes of today and not least of the Danes of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131554	The time has passed and there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131557	What is it that justifies Mrs Mette Thiesen to use an expression like you politicians when she herself is a politician and elected to the Folketing and has been on the town council in Hillerød for a number of years? How is it that the rest of us are more politicians than Mrs Mette Thiesen? I'm having a little trouble understanding that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131618	Thank you. Well, this is really about the politicians who have sat in the Folketing and helped to adopt all these things that have voted for over and over again that foreigners should have Danish citizenship. This makes us unfortunately in a situation now that too many people have been given Danish citizenship too many who should never have had it. When both the Social Democrats and the Left and the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance also vote in favour of this bill, it is of course worrying because it is some parties that tend to have strict foreign policy. So it's worrying, and it doesn't add up at all. The fact that the rapporteur is talking about looking after Denmark is unfortunately not followed by action.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131709	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131710	Mrs Mette Thiesen, in her speech as far back as the 1983 Aliens Act, said that we should be ashamed of it. But Mrs Mette Thiesen herself has been a member of the Conservative People's Party and has of course signed up for a long time since the Aliens Act was passed in 1983, and so have I myself. I joined in 1997. We have both been members of the same party. Why is it that I should be more ashamed of what was adopted by some other people in 1983 than Mrs Mette Thiesen should?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131747	In general, shame should be placed upon the adoption of legislation which does not benefit Denmark. And there is no way to say that the Aliens Act in 1983 is. Fortunately, I am in a party that takes Denmark very seriously, and so we will not throw ourselves around with Danish citizenship, as it has unfortunately been customary for too many years. Unfortunately, we can also see that a great many of the parties that otherwise pride themselves on having a tough immigration policy and being tighter in the field of foreigners continue to do so. That, of course, is really, really too bad. I wish those parties also followed up their fine words with action.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131829	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131833	I am also very interested in history, which is why I cannot help asking the rapporteur about what has happened. Now the rapporteur mentions the year 2011 - i.e. I joined my party in 1997 when I was 16 years old. So I actually spent more than half my life fighting for a tight immigration policy, ensuring that there is no growth in the number of Muslims in Denmark etc. etc. I actually thought that was what we agreed on, but now I understand that I should be ashamed of myself. And that's why I just want to hear what Mrs Mette Thiesen did there from 2011 to 2015, when these shameful laws were passed. Just for the sake of history books and, of course, the parliamentary record, it would be nice to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101131923	When I say that one should be ashamed of oneself as a politician, it is the politicians who sit in the parties that helped to adopt this very, very harmful alien law. This is not the case with the Danish People's Party, and as my chairman has said before, and as we also regularly say, we in New Citizens are very happy that we have had a Danish People's Party and a Pia Kjærsgaard who has fought for this area. The problem is that when you have seen, as I also mention in my speech, that the Danish People's Party has unfortunately also voted in favour of quite a few of these laws of citizenship 14 out of 34 I think it is well then, of course it is something that needs to be mentioned. And therefore it was also important for me to mention that it is really gratifying that the Danish People's Party votes against this law. And I hope, of course, that line will be something that will also apply to the Danish People's Party in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132024	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132026	Then I won't be ashamed. That's good. At least we've come this far. So, the laws mentioned by Mrs Mette Thiesen are laws that have been implemented with the rigours we got through in the Danish People's Party, which made the laws of birthrights in a few years went from having 70%. Muslims to have 20%. Muslims. I think that's really good. I also assume that Mrs Mette Thiesen feels that this is the right development. That is why I would just like to hear again for the sake of the history books and the parliamentary Minutes what Mrs Mette Thiesen did in those years, i.e. for example. in the 2015 parliamentary elections. How did she get involved at the time in order to tighten up these rules of foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132107	This isn't really about me. It is about Denmark's security and security, about our children and grandchildren, the future generations. And I would just like to point out that this is something that previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, among other things. The rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party states that it is de facto believed that just because an agreement has been reached which is a step on the way, death and pain must also be put to the vote for the subsequent bill on the communication on citizenship, I do not think that it is at all valid. If you think and you are so worried that there is a bill on which some people will not contribute to Denmark, you must, of course, vote against it, even if you have reached an agreement and tightened some rules that should be much tighter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132153	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur of the new civil society and welcome the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132207	Thank you for the floor. I have no doubt that if one theoretically imagined that a group of historians would rank bad decisions taken here in the Folketing, the Aliens Act of 1983 would be quite high on this list of bad decisions. Of course, how high can it be hard to answer. It also depends on whether we want to include foreign policy decisions or whether we want to stick to internal policy. I also have an education as a sociologist, and there is something called the ecological failure in sociology, and that is to conclude from statistically correct statements to individuals. Smoking is dangerous, but you can't be sure that the smoke you're facing is doomed. It has something to do with the individual, even though the statistics are in fact correct enough. So if you assume that the smoker has signed his own death sentence, you make the ecological mistake, and that warns method literature against it. Now I have not been taking notes, but the review of statistics, which we have heard from the Parliament's platform, can be good enough to that extent. It just doesn't say anything about the individual. But it's actually the individual people we're talking about with this bill. It applies to a great many of the people on the bill that I have dealt with their own cases because the bill was delayed by the election. It has been dealt with very, very thoroughly and it has been dealt with separately. There are some people who have simply come through a very, very small needle's eye. That is why there is both a discussion about some imbalances and some curves that need to be broken in society, and I think that is an important discussion, and then there is a discussion about the quality of the procedure, which among other things. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has carried out this task. In the Liberal Alliance, we have faith that the Committee on Bodily Rights and the officials who have prepared the cases we are dealing with with L 41, have done a good and responsible job within the framework of the circular adopted in 2018, which is why we are voting in favour of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132455	There is a brief comment on Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132459	Thank you. In New Citizens we believe that if there are doubts, it should benefit the Danes. Does the rapporteur not think that in such a case one is in doubt, also based on some of the statistics that I have just mentioned here from the parliamentary platform, the doubt must benefit the Danes and not those who apply for citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132529	Although I have been in the Folketing for many years now, I have not forgotten my sociological childhood lesson, and I simply do not believe that it is reasonable and reasonable to make the ecological mistake mentioned earlier. The statistics are undoubtedly good and of high quality, but I also consider the handling of the individual applicants, who have been through a very, very careful process, to be in order. And when this procedure is in order and follows these rules, which include... Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's party has helped to improve strongly and thank you for that. I trust that the people on the list are some people for whom the rules in force are absolutely acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132620	Thank you. Mrs Mette Thiesen for her second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132624	Okay. I hear what the rapporteur is saying, but that means that the rapporteur is absolutely, absolutely sure that none of them are on this bill - 3.566 adults and over 800 children - who should not in any way acquire Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132658	You can't be sure of anything but death and taxes, and since this isn't about death or taxes, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132710	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to the Minister of Integration... No, we're skipping the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191101132818	The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 November 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website].
