ParlaMint-DK_20191025100004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 15 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an end to imports of meat and soya produced from deforestation in Brazil). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Question No. F 14 (How will the Minister ensure that citizens who have been subject to an accident at work do not have to wait for years for the final decision in their case of occupational injury?), Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Doc. F 15 (Will the Minister explain whether the municipalities comply with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and what the Minister will do to municipalities that do not comply with the reform? ) and Query No. F 16 (What steps will the government take before the turn of the year to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100050	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100108	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100135	Thank you for the floor. The bill that we are discussing here today is, after all, a re-submission of the previously tabled L 187 from 27 February 2019. It lapsed as a result of the parliamentary elections held on 5 June. The bill is presented as part of the implementation of the health pool agreement for 2019-2022 between the then government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. In 2018, the report was published •Inspecting the possibilities of shortening the treatment guarantee for persons with a drug use, and the study showed that there is a great difference between the municipalities' interpretation of the existing rules on the treatment guarantee, including in particular from the time a citizen requests assistance and for treatment. That is the problem which this bill raises, among other things. Trying to make things right. The first part of the bill ensures clear rules for the social treatment of drug abuse. It simply becomes much clearer what is to happen from a citizen's request for treatment to treatment must be initiated within 14 days. According to this draft law, the municipal council must, inter alia: take a decision on social treatment on the basis of a holistic identification of the person's problems and needs. The municipalities must therefore assess whether the citizen needs other assistance and support under the Services Act, for example. how the citizen's consumption of drugs and alcohol is, what social conditions are, including networks and families, what physical and mental health is, whether there is work, study or other things that we need to take into account. These are all factors necessary for identifying and putting together the best treatment plan, because this draft law also establishes the obligation for the municipal council to ensure that the treatment offer draws up a treatment plan at the start of the treatment. A treatment plan is crucial, and a treatment plan based on and in terms of the real circumstances will only contribute to the citizen's motivation for treatment. A treatment plan could work if it is constantly evaluated and adjusted, and I see that the place of treatment and the citizen have an ongoing contact about adjusting their efforts. In addition to the abuse, many people receiving treatment under § 101 often have other complex social issues, and this obviously requires close follow-up in the treatment. Then there's the second part of the bill. Here we allow municipalities to use what is called a gift certificate in order to maintain the person in treatment. It may sound controversial, but it is a good arrangement. The proposal with gift cards stems from the many good experiences of a methodology programme in the area of drug abuse under the drug abuse package in 2012, and together with other treatments it produces very good results. 50% of the participating children and adolescents are drug-free after 9 months, and after the treatment is over, there is a very good result. In other cases and in other treatment methods it is only 37 per cent. So from my chair it is an exceptionally good idea to invest in a young person by offering it a gift certificate, but as I said, it is up to the municipalities if they want to. Of course, in order for the gift card method to have a beneficial effect, it is also necessary to ensure that the value of the gift card is not deducted in dependent or other income-dependent public benefits, as well as that the amount of the gift card should be exempt from tax. And with this bill, we also secure those elements. Finally, we also ensure with the bill that in special cases the Minister can lay down rules for the treatment of children and young people under the age of 18, and that as further experience with the gift card becomes available, the Minister can lay down detailed rules on the use of the gift card. In the Social Democratic Party we are very pleased that this bill also finally contains an editorial change, as drug addicts are changed to people with drug abuse. This can be seen as an editorial change, but at the same time it sends out to me a very important signal that we do not want to stigmatise people with drug abuse. In the Social Democratic Party we see the overall bill as strengthening the work of offering treatment to people with drug abuse, not least young drug addicts. Together, the bill will strengthen the municipalities' ability to work with the treatment of people with drug abuse, and the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100628	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100632	Thank you. I'd like to ask a very brief question about part of this. The story of this bill is, among other things, the story. the fact that there have been problems with the treatment guarantee for people with drug abuse and that some municipalities interpreted it as meaning that the treatment guarantee of 14 days was fulfilled if there had been a conversation about it, and some thought that it was fulfilled if it had been decided but not initiated, and others thought that the treatment should be initiated within 14 days. I just noticed that the rapporteur used the words put into effect at the latest after 14 days on the treatment guarantee. Can the rapporteur confirm that this proposal for a directive is precisely not
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100732	Thank you. I believe that there must be a plan after 14 days and that the treatment will take effect immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100750	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100757	So I understand the rapporteur correctly, in view of the fact that a decision has to be taken on the possible treatment to be given within 14 days. But it is not a guarantee that people with drug abuse will actually be treated within 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100801	Thank you. So, now treatment can mean many things, and the fact that the plan is after 14 days means that, depending on the treatment that takes effect, you can start the next day. But it can be different forms of treatment, so it can be difficult to say whether it is the day after or two days after.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100817	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025100832	Thank you for that, President. We are now discussing a bill which we in the Left are very pleased to see adopted here in the Danish Parliament. It is a legislative proposal which was actually tabled under the previous government but which was unfortunately not adopted because of the fact that there were parliamentary elections. But now's our chance. Earlier this week you could read in some of the Danish newspapers how thousands of drug addicts are actually let down by the system. The Danish Health Authority assumes that about 84,000 Danes have a high-risk drug use. However, the inventory shows that there are only about 17 000 citizens who are in treatment for drug abuse, and I am very concerned about this. The many drug addicts simply do not receive the treatment they need. They need help, and I hope that we will now do better around the municipalities with this bill. Because the draft law means that we want and also carry out a more rapid and effective and more holistic approach. There has been a need for things to be more transparent too, and it is in this way today that many municipalities actually interpret these rules, i.e. the existing rules, very differently. I am therefore delighted that with today's legislative proposal we are proposing a clean-up, we can call it, and make the rules much clearer, so that the requirements for the municipal treatment effort are clarified. Against this background, it is also the case that it is proposed to strengthen the treatment guarantee, so that the municipal authorities must ensure that the treatment offer is prepared and that a treatment plan is drawn up to ensure a systematic and more targeted and coherent organisation of the course of treatment itself, while at the same time deciding on treatment in the light of the extent of the individual's needs. And this within 14 days. In addition, it is intended to disseminate the good examples and the effective methods of treatment, and in this way hopefully we will have a great many more citizens to achieve a higher quality in the way they are treated. It is therefore a legislative proposal that takes the initiative on a great many good things and, as I have said, it helps to strengthen the guarantee of treatment for drug addicts. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left, of course, supports the bill. I have also promised to greet the new citizens and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and we can therefore go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101153	Thank you. It might be a bit of a repeat, but you're gonna have to bear that. This bill is, after all, part of the rate pool, where it is proposed to strengthen the current treatment guarantee for the social treatment of drug abuse by ensuring clear rules for the social treatment of drug abuse under Section 101 on social services. This includes identifying the citizens' problems, challenges and needs in order to ensure the proper treatment of abuse and any other assistance and support that the citizen may need, as well as drawing up a treatment plan. It is also proposed to ensure that municipalities are given the power to use gift cards in the treatment of people with drug abuse or addiction, including children and young people under the age of 18, in order to reduce apostasy and increase the treatment effect. The report, which has also been mentioned earlier, which is called "Investigation of the possibilities of shortening the treatment guarantee for people with a drug abuse from October 2018, shows that, particularly in relation to the social treatment of drug abuse, there is a difference between the municipalities' interpretation of the existing rules for the treatment guarantee • This is something I know about as a disability rapporteur, in relation to how the municipalities sometimes interpret the rules • including, in particular, in relation to the course, from a citizen's request for treatment, until the treatment is initiated within 14 days after. I also think that this was a very relevant issue raised by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this context. It is estimated that this could lead to an uneven practice of referral to treatment, which could have an impact on the aid and support received by citizens with drug abuse, which is inappropriate for the legal status of citizens and for the organisation of local treatment efforts. And we believe in the Danish People's Party that there have been too many examples that people who are addicted have not received the right help, for example. We know, if it is citizens who are dependent and at the same time live in a relationship that may be turbulent, that it is the target group that will be rejected at a crisis centre because of dependence. There is a need for stronger action in this area. Of course, this is a small step in the right direction. But I also have a question for the Minister. In one of the consultation responses I think it is in the Gadejuristen hearing answer it is mentioned that the comments contain social pedagogical or therapeutic interventions and that treatment under section 101 of the Service Act requires a social pedagogic or psychologically based effort. So perhaps the Minister will discuss why it stands as it does in the comments. The Danish People's Party looks forward to the committee reading, and we will also ask some clarification questions if needed. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101500	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There is no desire for questions to the rapporteur at this stage. In this way we can welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101513	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left also supports the proposal. The bill is, of course, part of a wage-pool agreement of which Radicals are a part, so we are, of course, already committed to this in advance. What is important in the proposal is an obligation on the part of the municipality to draw up a treatment plan for a citizen who has a drug abuse when entering and to decide on treatment within 14 days. There is another part of the bill which is a legal basis for using gift cards as part of the treatment. There is good experience with that tool, so, like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101551	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here too there is no desire for further clarification. This welcomes the SF rapporteur, Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101559	Thank you. It has been the case that the practice of the municipalities, when it comes to helping people with drug abuse, has been quite different. This bill calls for a greater alignment of practice so that when the processing guarantee enters into force, a holistic effort is made. Unfortunately, it is a well-known problem that the look for the whole disappears when you try to solve one problem somewhere and another somewhere else. But people's lives are connected. That is why I also believe that when a treatment plan is to be drawn up for the treatment of abuse, there must be coherence and coordination with possible other action plans in the life of the citizen. In isolation, the bill does not necessarily solve the problems of citizens not receiving the treatment they need. A pressured local economy means that in many places it has been difficult to get round-the-clock treatment, and this guarantee is not provided with this bill. Then the proposal also envisages increasing the use of these gift cards, and it is important for SF to say that gift cards remain a motivating means of making use of a treatment offer. But it should of course be the content and quality of the treatment, as if it were motivating and sustaining, rather than punishment and reward. A gift certificate cannot replace a good treatment offer, and therefore our primary focus should also be on strengthening the treatment offers that exist in the future. Moreover, we are also leaning on consultation responses that want to clarify the rules so as to ensure that all municipalities use the offer in the same way. In the SF we believe that as a community we have an obligation to help people out of abuse and to ensure that there is rapid help to do so, especially when they themselves are prepared to get out of their drug abuse. An important purpose is that citizens feel motivation and ownership in relation to the treatment. We are happy to participate and will even in the future make suggestions on how to strengthen these treatments, but this is a good step on the way, and therefore SF backs it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101808	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line and the next speaker is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025101818	Thank you for that, President. As we have already mentioned, although the debate has been brief, there is a prehistory, at least for parts of this bill in which Enhedslisten has participated very intensively. A few years ago, we discovered in here at Christiansborg that there was a very unequal treatment of these people with drug abuse when they approached the municipality and were motivated to participate in treatment. Then the municipality could look up the law and say that there was a treatment guarantee of 14 days. Some municipalities interpreted the 14-day treatment guarantee in such a way that you should have just called the citizen to a meeting within 14 days. Some municipalities understood that as long as some sort of decision had been taken within 14 days on what the treatment should be, the treatment guarantee was fulfilled. And then there were some who felt that the treatment guarantee was only fulfilled once the treatment had actually started, that is to say some help had been given, for example. a place in a 24-hour institution if that was what you needed, or a place in an outpatient counselling service or other. Then there have been investigations at KL, there has been a breakdown, and there have been all sorts of things. Finally, it appears that it is good enough: it is really a mess. Now we need clarification, and this bill must follow up on that. What the government wants to do with the bill is to ensure that within 14 days, when you approach and have a drug abuse, you can have a decision on what kind of treatment you should have. This means, of course, and it is positive that all the municipalities which thought that they could only hold a conversation within 14 days will be put in place. However, this does not mean that the treatment will be initiated within 14 days. When I spend so much time on this, it is of course because it is extremely important for a treatment for drug abuse to work that it is initiated right at the time when the motivation is there. If you have a drug abuse, there are small pockets and windows of motivation. This is the kind of thing you can hardly walk alone and hold on to for 14 days, and certainly not for several months. After all, this bill means that all the municipalities that say that they just have to make a decision within 14 days and that it doesn't matter that there is first place in the 24-hour institution a month later can continue as if nothing had happened. And we don't think that's good enough in the Enhedslisten. That is why we would like to invite those parties that should agree with us to have an amendment tabled so that the treatment guarantee clearly means that the treatment must be initiated within 14 days. This means that you have to have a place in an outpatient counselling service or that you have to have the mentor you have to be assigned or that you have to have a place in the day care centre or whatever else it takes within 14 days. So it is not good enough that a decision has just been taken within 14 days. So we will start working on that. The other parts of the bill, which others have also spoken about, we think are positive. The fact that it has not been in the law in the past that a treatment plan should actually be drawn up may seem completely stupid, but it will hopefully have a positive effect. We also find it wonderful that the municipalities have the opportunity to work with these motivating gift cards because they have proved to work too many. So, that is, it is a positive legislative proposal, but we think that we can do better in the process and we hope that more parties will be involved in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102212	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102218	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It may be a little bit about different views of words, because I read in the bill that it says: '... , and for treatment should be started within 14 days. For me, this means that a treatment has been initiated within 14 days. Isn't it true that it's in the bill itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102249	We do not think that has changed. The problem has been that it has been interpreted differently and, as we read the comments, it is a decision. I hope that Mrs Anni Matthiesen is right and that I am wrong and that we will clarify this in committee. Then it will be a very good bill, and then it will go from being a good one to being a very good bill. But that's not how we read it. At least I think it needs clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102315	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102317	I fully agree that, if there is doubt and there is still a risk of reading it differently around the municipalities, we obviously have a task here during the committee procedure in order to clarify it even better. But I have to say that when I read the text of the law, I was comforted, but we can try to read it together, so maybe we can find out if that is correctly understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102340	I fully agree with Mrs Anni Matthiesen, because when I read the text of the law, I was also comforted, but then I read the comments, and then I was worried again. That is also why I put the question to the Socialist rapporteur earlier, who, after all, confirmed my understanding of the text from here on in the Chair, and that only made me a little more concerned again. But let's finally read it all together, because it might help.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102402	The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102405	Thank you. And I'm worried that Mrs. Pernille Skipper is worried. I actually understand what Mrs Pernille Skipper is saying, but before we embark on an amendment to clarify this here, if there are any inappropriate points, I would just like to hear: has Mrs Pernille Skipper been with the Minister? Because I fully understand that there is a difference between whether you are just called up for an interview and whether there is a year or two, I almost said before you can get into treatment. Unfortunately, I have seen too many people and also young people who have not received the help they needed and who have died. And I certainly believe that if we in the Danish Parliament can clarify something that we can be absolutely sure of as a result of putting in quickly and helping those who need it, we in the Danish People's Party would like to take a look at it. However, before we proceed with amendments and other amendments, I think it is appropriate to hear what the Minister thinks about it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102509	I fully agree with that. That is also why I put questions to the Socialist rapporteur, I will also put questions to the Minister, and I certainly hope that I am mistaken in reading the comments. So far, the Socialist rapporteur has confirmed that I am not wrong. Nevertheless, there is still a lack of clarity, and that is why I say: let us at least work towards clarification or clarification if it is not to be an amendment. The amendment is not sacred as such, it is the result.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102540	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102542	Yes, the result is certainly important, and it is also important to address this challenge. We know that when we make legislation in here from Christiansborg, we have some good intentions, and we also know that when that legislation has come out and should like to work, it is not always working as intended. So it's important that we get clear guidelines from Christiansborg about how this should be interpreted. We would like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102608	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102609	The next question is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102619	It is actually a little the same, because I am surprised by Mrs Pernille Skipper's question to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party about the implementation of this procedure. For it says precisely: 'The purpose of the draft law is to ensure clearer rules for the social treatment of drug abuse, including what is required, from a citizen's request for treatment, and for the treatment to be initiated within 14 days. In any case, I read this as saying that the treatment must be initiated within 14 days. That's why I'm a little puzzled. And now perhaps that is more of a comment, because I heard what the rapporteur said to Anni Matthiesen, who also asked about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102704	My answer is the same: well, I hope I am wrong, but when we read the comments, it is not so clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102717	Is there a desire for another question? Yeah, here you go, Mrs. Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102719	It is just a comment on it, and it is fine that we will then have it unveiled in committee, but at least it is the way I read it, and that is also what I think was the idea behind this, namely that it was important to have a deadline for its implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102732	I am very glad we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102739	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur in this instance. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102752	This bill helps to ensure that people with drug abuse can get into treatment within 14 days after they have requested treatment. It is particularly important for this group that the treatment should be initiated when motivated, and it must of course be assumed that, as an addict, it is when one asks to be treated. And then it is important to seize them and that it does not take too long for it to be implemented. The draft law also incorporates the fact that, at the start of the procedure, it should be an option today, but not a duty, but it will be now. After all, treatment plans help to support citizens' motivation and ownership of the treatment, which is also quite important for this target group. I could almost be tempted to say that the intention justifies the means, because the draft law also incorporates the possibility of giving a tax-free gift card. Indeed, it has proved to be an effective tool for maintaining citizens in treatment and reducing apostasy. However, it is important for me to say that, for us, it is important to follow up on whether they stay in the treatment and not just come once, because it should have an effect on the long run. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102930	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments. I would like to welcome Mrs Issa Bloch from the Alternative for the first time, I presume. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025102941	Thank you for the floor. We have all seen how drug abuse can sustain people in an undignified and degrading life. This is happening in many walks of life, but not least at the bottom of society, where drug abuse is a huge problem, among other things. Among homeless people. The physical and psychological dependence on hard drugs is so strong that it is incredibly difficult to become drug-free once you become addicted. Therefore, the individual's own motivation is crucial to getting out of drug abuse. There may be various reasons why a drug addict chooses to seek treatment in order to get out of his abuse. It may be that he or she has a boyfriend, that he or she is losing contact with his or her children, or that it may be the health consequences of your abuse, which is becoming so fatal that now it has to be. However, whatever has motivated a person with abuse to make this vital decision, it is vital that there is help to get while the motivation is there. There is no point in the treatment seeker having to wait for months, because then the motivation may disappear, and you come back to your old friends and networks. That is why, in the alternative, we have been advocating for a long time an increased guarantee of treatment, and we are very pleased with this bill, which states not only that a drug addict should be entitled to treatment after 14 days, but also that the initiation of treatment should be speeded up. And if, as Mrs Pernille Skipper says, this is not clear enough, we would very much like to take a look at it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103145	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103156	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill. We think this is a good and positive legislative proposal. Instead of repeating what others have said, I would like to address this with the motivating gift cards that the municipalities are now being given the opportunity to use in the treatment of drug addicts. If people have not noticed, it is a paradigm shift, you might say, especially in the left view of being a drug addict. It is recognised that it is motivation that is needed to get out of drug abuse, that is to say that drug abuse is not a disease that affects people, but is something that people get into, among other things. because they do not have the right motivation in life. Therefore, you can help them get motivation, and you can make cognitive conversations that lead to motivation, and you can give gift cards to create motivation for a different life. So the fact that you are a victim of society and have therefore ended up at the bottom of society as an abuser is now cancelled by a new paradigm, which is about ensuring that these people have a motivation for another life. I would just like to take my hat off to the left because it is now no longer considered that all the weakest in society are victims of circumstances in life that they cannot do anything about, but that we now recognise that what is needed for people to have a better life is that there is a motivation in people to have a different life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103333	Thank you to the rapporteur. This has triggered a request for a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103340	That was quite an interpretation of the left-wing policy, I must say. I'd like to hear Mr. Ole Birk Olesen document where it was that we, at least in the SF, have said that drug abuse should be a disease and that it should be something one was victim of. On the contrary, I believe that it is a long tradition in the left to advocate empowerment in the treatment of socially vulnerable people, in other words that it is precisely the driving force that we must support. But it is also true that we believe that there are conditions in our society that maintain people in a life that they do not want. That's right, too. But I would like to know where Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103429	Unfortunately, I have not included my Hanne Reintoft quotes today, but Hanne Reintoft and people who have the same policy as her, and who identify with her, the social worker environment in the 1970s and 1980s, were, after all, dominated by the thinking that people should not be told to make an effort themselves, but should make them understand that their lives were a product of circumstances which were not their fault but were the fault of society and that instead they should go in and try to change society to change their own situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103502	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103503	Now, this is quite interesting, and I'd like to see those quotes too. But this is what the relationship between individual and society is like. This is a long ideological discussion. But is it not also true that there may be conditions in people's lives, social conditions that maintain people in a position where they cannot make choices to break out of what is problematic for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103533	Mrs Trine Torp is absolutely right that some have been exposed to things in their upbringing, that is to say, have grown up in circumstances which have made it much harder for them to make sound and sensible choices later in life; and in some cases it is almost impossible, and therefore they cannot be made to make better choices in their lives, other than if we others help them. That is absolutely correct, and I would never deny it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103602	The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103605	I'd like to hear Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, what year we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103617	In other words, we are not going far back in years, and I think we can also find quotes as recently as today, which describe having a drug abuse as a disease more than a product of some choices you make and a product of the motivations you have in your life. But what is now the case is that even Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten, who is the extreme left here in the Danish Parliament, says that it is important that they have the right motivation and that they can be helped with a gift certificate. After all, you can't cure appendicitis or whooping cough with a gift card. These are real diseases, but drug abuse is a question of having a will for something other than drug abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103655	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103656	I just think it's extremely funny when sir... Ole Birk Olesen stands up and reproduces a caricature and wrong attitude and attaches it to the whole left, and when asked where it comes from, he goes back to the 1970s. And to answer my question: It's 2019 today. When we work on social policy, which we do very much in the Enhedslisten and SF and also those parties that do not define themselves quite as much as the left, we do so on the basis of the idea that people actually can do something, and sometimes they are faced with some hard circumstances, and we have to help them get by. But they have an inner motivation. We have just stood on the platform and talked about, everyone, how important motivation is, and then I think it is so good that the Liberal Alliance (First Vice-President Thank you to the questioner! ) again caricatures the discussion and leaves it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103748	Thank you! Speaking time has long since been exhausted. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103752	But in my speech I also welcomed the fact that the paradigm shift on the left has taken place, that it is now recognised that motivation fills something. And where it was said earlier that all the ills in society are due to the structures of society, one has gone into the path that Hanne Reintoft warned against at the time that it was a bourgeois view of social problems to tell people that they themselves had to make an effort to get out of their problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103815	The next question is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103819	Now I have been listening to the rapporteur's speech and I have to admit that some of what is being said is a little over my chest, so I have to comment on some of it. One of the points raised by the rapporteur is that it is the will of drug addicts to want something and things like that. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware that some of the young people who get into abuse of hashish abuse, etc. And actually it's using a little self-medication. So, in fact, they have some difficulties. It sounds a little as if the rapporteur is not aware that it is actually also part of those we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025103913	I am fully aware of that. As I also said in my reply to Mrs Trine Torp or Pernille Skipper I do not remember who it was then there are many children and young people who have grown up with unequally worse conditions in terms of getting a good life later than other children and young people. And one of the bad conditions you can have is that you have some psychological or mental challenges that you suffer from. However, this does not change the fact that even if you have the challenges that Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel also talks about, you cannot get out of an abuse unless you make an effort to do so yourself. That is why we are now talking about using motivating gift cards in the treatment of drug abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104005	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104007	Well, now it's the case that many of these kids who have these diagnoses, adhd, autism, ocd, eating disorders, etc. The rapporteur says that they have grown up under unequal conditions. Well we are talking about ordinary well-functioning families who have had some children who have some difficulties that may have arisen at birth or are hereditary or something. Doesn't that make an impression at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104044-2	Well, I never said anything else. I never said that it is only children from poor families who have problems with adhd or have similar diagnoses that I have never said so. I do not know where it comes from; it is something that has arisen in Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel's brain.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. This brings the rapporteur to a conclusion and we welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104120	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by signing for the receipt of the bill here. It is a matter of the heart for the government to extend its hand further to the most vulnerable citizens we have. This is particularly true of young people who are getting off the wrong track because of abuse. That is why I am pleased that the parties behind the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement agreed to strengthen the processing guarantee, and that is the agreement we are implementing with the bill here. I would like to start by saying, overall, that we do not in any way solve all the problems of vulnerable people and people in drug abuse here. I would very much like to sign that so many of the parties in the Folketing are concerned here about how we can do better, and the interest is even wider than what this bill is about. This makes me very optimistic about the work that lies ahead of us, and I also always welcome a broader fundamental discussion on drug abuse treatment, damage reduction and so on. Welcome. It is exciting to listen to, but I will not go into it because it falls a little outside the scope of the draft law here. This bill is very specific. There was a report on the treatment guarantee in October 2018 which showed that there is a difference among municipalities in the interpretation of the existing treatment guarantee. This is absolutely crucial, as several rapporteurs have said, because the effect of treatment is that people with drug abuse receive help and that they get it quickly when they are motivated. The purpose of the investigation was to examine whether the treatment guarantee for the 14 days already in force today is good enough. In the study, stakeholders point out that shortening the treatment guarantee will not have a major impact on people with drug abuse, but that instead there is a need to strengthen the rules in force. This is the reason for this draft law, which aims to clarify the demands made from the request for help and for the procedure to be initiated within 14 days. The draft law also introduces a new obligation to draw up a treatment plan. This allows municipalities to use gift cards in drug abuse treatment, which has just shown a good effect in maintaining young people in treatment, and that is the alpha and the omega, that is, retention, if we are to help young people out of abuse. I am very much looking forward to the committee reading, and I am, of course, available to answer any questions that the committee might wish to clarify, but I can just add a few words to some of the points that have already been raised here. I am sure that we will also have the opportunity to go into it in committee. The Danish People's Party asks why the description of therapeutic treatment is being used, and the reality is, as the rapporteur can also read in the consultation note. However, I would also like to reply to it again if the rapporteur wants it to be written that it is a real description of what is the actual treatment today; according to current law, there is no requirement that it be psychological treatment that is used in the treatment of drug abuse, because the specific treatment of drug abuse must be organized according to the needs of the individual citizen, and therefore it is more correct in relation to both the applicable law and the actual treatment out there that one writes the treatment of the patient. It should not be seen as a deterioration, because it is not, nor should it be taken down that way. To the Enhedslisten, I would say that the treatment must be initiated within 14 days. It is written in various places in the comments on the draft law, both in 2.2.1 and 2.2.3, but I can hear that it is some of the things that would be good to get the full details of the committee's proceedings. So let us clarify this so that it can be made clear when we conclude and deal with thirds in the report that comes to the legislative proposal. I would very much like to contribute to this, because this should be a proposal, an amendment to the law, which makes it clearer what it is that the municipalities have a duty to do. I do not think I will say anything about the last discussion on gift cards and the whole method of moving, but perhaps just add the comment on it that the gift card is, of course, part of the overall method of treatment. That is why it was an exciting ideological discussion that was, but perhaps it was a little detached from what we are actually trying to do with the bill. So I would just like to thank you very much for the deep interest in the efforts of people in drug abuse in general, but also the positive reception of the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104528	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104533	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. But there is, of course, a difference between the guidance we now have, in which there is social pedagogic or psychologically based action in a holistic process, and in which the new guidance changes it to social pedagogic or therapeutic. That is why there has been a concern about it in the consultation answers. Will the Minister rule out changing it to the term therapeutic or also to the term therapeutic/psychological? It has been in the previous guide, and we know how and how words can be interpreted and interpreted in the treatments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104622	I think it may be very good in committee to clarify what is behind this change, so that no one can read anything into the change that should not be read into it. So let us finally have a question about it in committee and then we can clarify the background to it. As I have said, the consultation note sets out the change, but let us at last clarify it further. I do not think that any of us have an interest in the fact that there should be confusion and uncertainty here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104648	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104649	Thank you. Well then, I would like to follow up on the discussion or debate that has taken place today, precisely in relation to the treatment part. What does the Minister think about that? Is it enough to say that the treatment guarantee has been respected if one has called for an interview, or is the Minister thinking that it should be the case that, of course, a procedure has been initiated in the form of an offer or other?
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104719	As I myself said in my own collection, the treatment must be initiated within 14 days, and I also referred to the legal notes where it is, under the section on applicable law and the proposed system. But let us clarify this in the committee procedure, because this must be a legislative proposal which ensures greater clarity, and if there are some ambiguities that we can help to correct, let us do so in the committee procedure. It's an open door to run into me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104750	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104753	Thank you. We are circling a little about a single word, I think, i.e. working on it. And I would just like to ask the Minister what the Minister understands by the fact that a treatment has to be initiated because I really think that maybe that is where the problem may be and that perhaps it is there that may be needed also in the remarks to define it a little clearer. I mean, when has a treatment been initiated?
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104824	Well, let's try to elaborate on it. I do not think it is right that I stand here as a minister and define it, because of course it has to be defined in a way that is in no doubt about it. So let us do it in committee. As a follow-up to this, I might just say that we are all aware of the fact that, as something new, the Ankestyrelsen has started to keep statistics on complaints and turnover rates, so we will also get some more knowledge about • that is, if there are any problems here • how to actually understand the rules there are. I will certainly follow that very closely. So let us finally clarify the amendments and scope of this draft law in committee. And then I just want to report that this is something I think we're going to relate to. I will certainly continue to be deeply concerned about this. I do not think we have solved all the problems with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104910	Thank you, Minister. There are no further questions on this matter. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104941	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025104951	Thank you. Then we've come to L 8. The bill we are discussing here today is a re-submission of L 229 from 24 April 2019 by the then government, but it lapsed due to the parliamentary elections. This bill translates three regulatory simplification proposals, which are part of the modernisation and efficiency programme of the municipalities' financial agreement back in 2017. In other words, it is a legislative proposal which aims to reduce part of the bureaucracy which unfortunately • because we have to recognise that it has taken over large parts of the public sector, including in the area of children and social affairs. When I look beyond the public sector today, there is no doubt for me that there is a lack of time and resources, and I understand the concern that exists about whether there is any provision for welfare in the future and, of course, it creates insecurity. Nor is there any doubt that many, many of us must take action to ensure that in future we also have the welfare society that we need and that we all want. That is why we also need to start taking action with bureaucracy and control in the public sector. Time must be released so that employees can concentrate on core tasks. There is no doubt that we in the municipalities have a number of very, very talented people working in the public sector who really just want to be allowed to carry out their tasks without the necessary rules. That is one of the issues we are trying to resolve with this bill. Firstly, the draft law provides for the abolition of prior child consultation through financial support to the custody holder. Today, according to the Service Act, a child's interview with the child or young person must be held before financial support can be given to the parents. By removing this requirement, we avoid involving the child or young person in matters relating to parental responsibility, and we know this will be beneficial to the child. We know that children who experience responsibility for, and are responsible for, their parents' finances are weighed down by it. So an unnecessary burden can be taken from the child and the youth with this bill. And then we also reduce the processing time. Secondly, the draft law provides for the abolition of special action plans for young people at risk of crime and young people at risk of drug abuse. This is because in the Service Act there is already the possibility of working with holistic action plans, that is to say action plans based on the child, the young person and the family's situation, and that can come all the way around the child's problems. By abolishing special action plans, we reduce the administrative burden and the effort is simplified, but the most important thing is actually how the child, the young person and the parents experience it here. Indeed, it must be a relief for young people and their parents only to have to deal with a plan of action. Finally, this bill also involves amending the Services Act, which means that the review of the action plan goes from a decision to a process leading decision. To move from a decision to a decision leading to a process is, of course, entirely in line with the fact that a review of a plan of action or part of a holistic action plan must be carried out in cooperation with parents and young people. The parties will, of course, be able to continue to complain about the measure itself in the action plan. All in all, I believe that we have here a legislative proposal which is in every way a step on the right path to reducing bureaucracy and which allows municipalities to draw up a plan of action as part of a process in which the child, young people and parents are constantly involved and where the complexity of the citizens is significantly reduced. And, as I have said, the draft law is considered to involve less administrative burdens both for citizens and for the public as well. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party fully supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105353	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief comments have been requested, and so I would like to welcome the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105403	Thank you. I can start by revealing that we in the Left are very much in favour of this bill. It was a legislative proposal which, like the previous draft law, was unfortunately not adopted before the parliamentary elections, which is why it is very good that we should now get to grips with it and get it through here in Parliament. And yes, as a former rapporteur also said, this is a legislative proposal which removes some rigid and unnecessary requirements for the treatment of children and young people under the Services Act. In general, I think that this bill helps to send out a very good signal that here too from Christiansborg we must remember to make room and, for that matter, also to have confidence that public employees can concentrate on tackling what is most important and, for that matter, to have more time for the core task itself. Unfortunately, there are many places where there is unnecessary bureaucracy and, for that matter, unnecessary control, which is why this bill is now helping to remove some of it, and that makes perfect sense. I am not going to give a long speech to the rapporteur and do not repeat what has just been said, but I would of course also say from the Chair that I am very pleased that the relevant players in general also welcome the draft law in the consultation answers they have sent in. So, of course, the Left supports the bill here, and again I have promised to greet from New Citizens and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105551	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no desire for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105602	Thank you. Then I think you should sit back well, because I am going to give a very long speech to the rapporteur. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, this bill is about regulatory simplifications. It is proposed to repeal the current provision to hold a prior child consultation in decisions on financial support for the custody holder. It makes good sense to free children from being involved in this when the matter has a clearly defined problem that can be solved through financial support. It is also suggested that the work on two special action plans for people at risk of crime and young people with a treatment-intensive drug use is instead incorporated into the general action plan according to section 140 of the Services Act or the holistic plan according to section 140a, and it also makes sense with only one action plan. In conclusion, it is proposed that in future a plan of action should be revised as a decision rather than a decision, and the decision to do so will in future be a procedural decision. These changes are said in the draft law and will remove unnecessary procedural requirements without weakening citizens' legal certainty. At least that's what the bill says. However, on the last point, there has been some concern about what concerns the decision to revise the action plan. After all, the action plan is an important coordination tool, and the follow-up to the action plan must include: ensure that both the overall and concrete objectives are continuously evaluated and that the measures taken do not go beyond what is intended. Where an authority has to decide a case, the parties to the proceedings shall have the right to make observations before the decision is taken. The absence of consultation of the parties may lead to the wrong decision being taken because the basis for the decision is incorrect or insufficient. I can follow the inappropriate view that a decision on the review of the action plan can be challenged separately in parallel where there is also a change of measures taken, but what about the situation where there is no simultaneous change of measures? Could it not be imagined that, in this particular situation, a decision would have to be taken which could be appealed to the Ankestyrelsen? I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will respond to the concerns that have been raised about this and possibly consider the DF's proposal. We look forward to the committee reading and also to the Minister's reply. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105840	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur on the Radical Left, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105847	Thank you very much. Like the proposal we have just discussed, I fully agree with the previous speakers and must therefore spare the House too much speaking time. The excellent legislative proposal we have before us simplifies matters for the citizens and for the administration of the municipalities. Eliminating special plans for drugs and crime in favour of global trade plans is a very good thing, and the fact that we are going to spare some children an enforced and unnecessary conversation is also a good thing. The bill is born in the reality of the municipalities and brought to us by KL, and I always appreciate it when we can go around that way and we can get reality tested our legislation by the municipalities, get response, and then we must also take our responsibility on ourselves and correct them legally so that they fit the reality. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105936	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025105942	Thank you. In the area of children and young people, we have long been concerned about ensuring the quality of the case and, in time, we have had so many procedural requirements that we can have doubts as to whether it really also ensures quality. The proceedings shall include what creates the best study of the needs of the child or young person. Quality must be ensured, but not necessarily by oceans of process requirements. The children's conversation is for example. important to involve the child's perspective. I think we should have many more good children's conversations than is the case today, but it is not just having a child's conversation at statutory times that makes a child feel heard and involved. It must be a natural part of the procedure and not just because you have to meet certain requirements. For example: a child's interview is not particularly relevant in deciding whether to grant financial support to a parent. In the same way, it is with action plans. The most important thing is not only that it is made, but that it is a good and holistic plan of action, which also really brings about improvements in the child's life. It is about the right balance between bureaucracy that ensures legal certainty and that there must be meaning to the rules. I think that this bill has hit some of the points that we can at least see will help to debureaucratize in a way that does not have negative consequences. In the SF, we also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110120	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110128	Thank you. Enhedslisten also supports the bill. It has been examined what it is about, it is an excellent debureaucratisation measure, and we have no further comments on that, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110146	Thank you for a very brief rapporteur's speech with important messages. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110200	Thank you. The aim of the draft law here is to remove unnecessary requirements for proceedings in the field of children and young people, where this is not considered necessary to inform the case or to obtain the aid envisaged. This is very good, because then the time in the municipalities can be used more appropriately. At the same time, it has been proposed to repeal the provision that prior child consultation should be held in decisions on financial support for custody holders and that special action plans for vulnerable young people and young people with treatment-intensive drug abuse should be abolished. They are instead part of the general action plan according to Article 140 of the Services Act. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110249	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mira Issa Bloch from the alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110259	Thank you for the floor. This bill removes three unnecessary documentation requirements in the area of children and young people. The previous rapporteurs have already explained very well the content of the demands. In the alternative, we are very much in favour of abolishing unnecessary documentation requirements and thus creating much more room for core tasks and a greater degree of confidence in the individual employees' ability to make the right decisions. For the sake of good order, of course, we have noted that the consultation answers are positive. For example, the Danish Social Advisor Association states that the proposed amendments to the Services Act constitute a simplification of the regulatory framework which does not weaken the legal certainty of children and parents or their ability to get the right support for development. DS therefore agrees with the implementation of the proposed amendments. So it's going to be a yes here from the Alternative. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110408	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance, who comes with long steps. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110420	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110425	Thank you to the rapporteur. Thus the rapporteur's series has been completed and the Minister can therefore say something about the draft law. Welcome, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110436	Thank you. However, I think that was two records in the two points so that we should not say'short and precise' rapporteur's speeches. I am sorry, Mr President, but I do not want to speak in foreign language here on the platform. Thank you very much for receiving the bill here. I very much agree with those who have stressed that we all have a responsibility in this House to ensure that when the lawmaking machine grinds, it must not grind so much that we end up setting unnecessary process-regulating requirements for municipalities when it comes to dealing with the problems of some of our most vulnerable citizens. In this case, of course, we are talking about some vulnerable children and young people. These are some small changes we are making in the legislation here, but this means that we ensure better space for professionalism and more focus on citizens' needs for the benefit of both children and young people and their parents. These are not the very big changes, but they are simplifications that the municipalities have wanted, while at the same time they do not impair citizens' legal certainty. And let me just say at my own expense that I hope we can keep going down that road and that when we make new legislation, we can stop doing things more retailly than they need to be. Now we are removing a number of requirements for the procedure in the area of children and young people, where this is not necessary to provide information and where this is not necessary for the support that will have to be implemented. I don't need to go into more detail with them. I think it was the Danish People's Party that raised the question, but now I am completely in doubt who raised it, so let me just answer this and then we can take it further in committee. However, the consultation answers from the Institute for Human Rights and Social Education in relation to this discussion about maintaining the review of the action plan as a decision or as a process leading measure have already given rise to the fact that we have made clear in the comments that legal certainty is preserved for the child, the young person and the parents. But let us just get it done further in committee. So just thank you for an incredibly constructive and, yes, effective processing of the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110647	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191025110705	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 31 October 2019. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
